10.2307/2484573|Explants of unpollinated ovaries of Citrus aurantifolia and C. sinensis, but not of C. maxima, a monoembryonic species, produced embryoids and complete plants under certain cultural conditions. Subsequent experiments showed that ovary wall tissue was more prone to produce these responses. In long-term culture the responses gradually decreased resulting in complete cessation of embryoid formation, this cessation occurring earlier in C. aurantifolia than in C. sinensis. Explants of nucellus contained in longitudinal halves of ovules taken from in vivo-grown emasculated flower buds of C. aurantifolia produced three types of responses, namely, (a) an increasing mass of proliferating embryoids, (b) friable, spongy and pale-white tissue along with callusing integumentary tissue and (c) mixed responses of (a) and (b). The explants with continuously increasing mass of proliferating embryoids contained most of the stages of zygotic embryogenesis. Using different culture media, a good number of embryoids could be induced in explants of friable and spongy tissue of nucellar origin, but they did not develop into seedlings. No embryoids could be induced from callusing integumentary tissue regardless of medium employed.
10.2307/2484331|Coreopsis nuecensoides and C. nuecensis represent a progenitor-derivative species pair with the latter having evolved from the former via chromosomal repatterning. The two species are reproductively isolated as a result of chromosomal translocations but are exceedingly similar morphologically. Their leaf flavonoid chemistries differ in several significant respects. Coreopsis nuecensis exhibits 6-methoxyflavonoids (6-methoxyluteolin 7-0-glucoside and 6-methoxyquercetin 7-0-glucoside), which are lacking in C. nuecensoides. The latter species contains flavonols (quercetin 3-0-glucoside and 3-0-rutinoside) and the flavone apigenin 7-0-glucoside, all of which are lacking in C. nuecensis except for a flavonol in one population. The divergent leaf flavonoid chemistries are hypothesized to be due either to accumulated genetic differences in the flavonoid biosynthetic pathways after chromosomal restructuring or a regulatory change in flavonoid biosynthesis associated with chromosomal repatterning. It is possible that both factors may have been involved in providing the rather striking chemical differences.
10.2307/2482235|1. The type specimens of the species of Anthoceros created by J. F. C. Montagne are described. 2. The following additional observations were made: Anthoceros dissectus Mont. belongs to the Podostemaceae. Dendroceros endiviaefolius (Mont.) comb. nov. raises the problem of the generic differences between Megaceros Campb. and Dendroceros Nees, a matter which is briefly discussed The description of the sterile type material is augmented by an examination of fertile material collected by Dusen. The species is probably closely related to Dendroceros giganteus (Lehmann et Lindenberg) comb. nov. Dendroceros cichoraceus (Mont.) Steph. is very closely related to D. crispus (Sw.) Nees, and may even be a synonym of that species. Anthoceros fuciformis Mont from Reunion appears closely related to certain anomalous material from West Africa, which lacks stomata in the sporophyte.
10.2307/2996800|The carbon-nutrient hypothesis suggests that within a species, plants growing in high light and low nutrient conditions will commit greater resources to chemical defensive compounds compared to plants growing in low light and high nutrient environments. To test this hypothesis, we evaluated the patterns of leaf tannin chemistry in two species of oak (Quercus velutina L. and Q. prinus L.) utilizing protein precipitation methods. Leaves were sampled from mature, forest-grown, canopy trees found in a southeastern Ohio oak-hickory forest. To evaluate the effects of environment, we sampled along a natural gradient using trees from contrasting north- and south-facing slopes. To assess the patterns of variation in tannin abundance among populations, we sampled multiple trees from three different sites. Thus, data were analyzed for patterns of variation with respect to slope aspect and population. Quercus prinus trees growing on south-facing slopes had significantly greater amounts of leaf tannins than those on north-facing slopes but did not exhibit significant population differences in foliar tannin content. In contrast, Q. velutina trees on north- and south-facing slopes did not differ significantly in foliar tannin content but did exhibit significant population differences in foliar tannin content. Different species may have varying responses to the environmental stress associated with topography. Environment may have a considerable effect on leaf tannin content at the landscape scale. However, in some cases, populations may also contribute to variation and need to be considered when evaluating patterns of secondary plant metabolite distribution and/or plant-animal interactions.
10.2307/2484887|Individuals of Erigeron annuus were collected from adjacent old fields in various stages of ecological succession. The biotype of each individual was determined using gel electrophoresis and the zymogram technique. Starch gels were used for the separation of malic dehydrogenase, acid phosphatase and peroxidase isozymes; acrylamide gels were used for the separation of chlorogenic acid oxidase isozymes. Biotype frequencies were calculated for each of the field populations. Significant differences in biotype frequency were found among the populations, suggesting the species is made up of a complex of differentially adapted biotypes.
10.2307/2484281|Chromosome numbers are reported for 57 species of Vernonieae from North and South America and from Africa. The genera included are Bothriocline, Centratherum, Elephantopus, Erlangea, Ethulia, Gutenbergia, Muschleria, Triplotaxis, and Vernonia. With these additions, chromosome numbers are now known from 16 of the 70 genera of Vernonieae. On a worldwide basis, genera with x = 10 predominate with the second greatest number having x = 9. The Old World Vernonias are dibasic with x = 9, or 10, and have polyploids derived from either base number. Vernonia in the New World has a base number of x = 17 which is assumed to represent ancient polyploids derived by aneuploidy from a base of x = 9. Cytologically, this tribe has less known about it than any of the other tribes of the Compositae tribes and much remains to be done.
10.2307/2996284|An examination of the distribution of pignut hickory (Carya glabra (Mill.) Sweet, Juglandaceae) along a forest to forest edge transect (200 m x 40 m) in a southeastern Michigan forest revealed that few seedlings and saplings were located within the forest where adults were present but several were located on the forest edge. The goal of this study, after quantifying the hickory distribution along the transect, was to examine how factors affecting seed and seedling survival could explain seedling recruitment within the forest and forest edge. An experiment designed to compare post-dispersal survival of hickory nuts in different parts of the forest and forest edge indicated that more nuts buried on the edge survived than those buried within the forest. Germination experiments revealed that burial of nuts enhanced both germination and establishment of first year seedlings within the forest and that without burial, germination was nil in the forest edge. Using information on growth rates, frequency of stem damage by vertebrate herbivores (probably deer), and general size characteristics of the individuals present, it was found that seedlings located within transition and edge zones did better than seedlings within the forest. Comparison of size and age of saplings along the transect did not reveal any significant differences among vegetation zones. It is concluded that the information on overall seedling success supports the findings of other studies that pignut hickories do not reproduce well in an undisturbed forest. However, seedling dynamics alone do not seem sufficient to explain the paucity of seedlings within the forest. It is possible that predation by vertebrates contributed to their low abundance within the forest and, more importantly, that seed dispersal by squirrels enabled seedling success along the forest edge. If true, then mammals may not only play a role in seedling recruitment of forest tree species but also in successional dynamics of forests.
10.2307/2996858|Bull Island is a barrier island within Cape Romain National Wildlife Refuge in Charleston county, South Carolina. Prior to Hurricane Hugo in September of 1989, the island's maritime forest contained healthy stands of old-growth, 70-160 year old loblolly pine (Pinus taeda L.) that averaged 43.8 m
10.2307/2484713|The use of scanning electron microscopy has made possible a detailed study of foliar surface features such as vestiture, trichome types, and cuticular patterns. The species of Broussonetia, Morus, and Maclura native or naturalized in North America have been surveyed and descriptions are given for the vestiture, trichome complement, and cuticular pattern of each species using standard terminology. Illustrations are given for all species. The similarities to Cannabis sativa are indicated.
10.2307/2484376|The biomass and productivity of the herbaceous layer in distinct areas of a Chamaecyparis thyoides (L.) BSP (Atlantic white cedar) stand in the Great Dismal Swamp were estimated by sampling along three transects. The transects were located in cut-burned, uncut-burned, and control areas. The harvest method was used and productivity estimated by summing peak biomass of individual species. The cut-burned area had the highest productivity (3475 kg ha
10.2307/2997196|From 1964 to 1984, prescribed burning experiments were performed on oak (Quercus spp.) forest and oak savanna in east-central Minnesota, USA. Eighty-nine burns were carried out on 9 compartments ranging from 2.6 to 27.5 ha. Intervals between fires varied from 1 to 12 years. Soil pH increased significantly with frequency of burning. Total nitrogen was positively correlated (P < 0.01) with per cent organic matter. Species richness was highest in areas which were burned approximately every 2 years. Different plant functional groups responded differently to frequency of burning. Cover of true prairie grasses increased from less than 5 to about 15 per cent. True prairie forbs showed a significant increase in cover from less than 2 to about 8 per cent with increasing frequency of burning. Density of true prairie shrubs showed a tendency to increase whereas density of non-prairie shrubs and of trees showed tendencies to decrease with increased frequency of fire. Thus, the frequency of prescribed burning strongly influenced vegetative composition and physiognomy as well as soil characteristics.
10.2307/2997094|The tree species occurring on 25 islands of the Chippewa River in Wisconsin were censused. The islands range in size from 0.1 to 6.4 ha and contain from as few as 3 to as many as 14 species of trees. A linear relationship was found between the number of tree species and island area. The number of species was also related to elevation but not to age, substrate type, mode of origin, or distance to the nearest floodplain forest. The number of tree species on these islands is related to area but not to the degree of isolation and is greatly influenced by elevation because of periodic flooding.
10.2307/2484666|Winter biomass and nutrient contents were determined for five central New York wetlands. The sites dominated by Carex lacustris and C. rostrata were characterized by having a relatively large aboveground standing crop and a corresponding high nutrient content in those tissues. The sites dominated by Carex lanuginosa, Sparganium eurycarpum, and Typha glauca had small aboveground, but massive belowground, standing crops. Nutrient supply in these species was concentrated in belowground tissues. All species had large winter biomass values ranging from 610 g/m
10.2307/2481760|1. Artificially produced uni-, tri- and quadriradiate cells of some species of Micrasterias have been described. 2. The theory of plasmastructural units facilitates the understanding of the morphological similarities between diploid biradiate cells and haploid uniradiate cells as well as the similar features of the rays in the biradiate haploid and quadriradiate diploid cells. 3. In all instances increased nuclear influence per cytoplasmic axis corresponding to one ray results in "diploid features": in the diploid cell because the number of the rays has remained unaltered while the nuclear mass has increased and in the uniradiate cell because the number of the rays has decreased while the nucleus has remained unaltered. 4. On the other hand one characteristic depending on the relative nuclear effect is very significant: the number of plasmastructural units (number of the rays) and the nuclear mass per cell are correlated in a high degree. The increase in the number of plasmastructural units has resulted from a branching of the existing plasmastructural units at an early stage of the formation of these units. The nucleoplasmic ratio is preserved to a large degree and thus the number and the size of the rays compensate each other.
10.2307/2483839|Samples of micro-algae were collected from intertidal zones of beaches and mud-flats during the summer of 1964 for studies of the organisms and their organic productivity with the carbon 14 method. Dinoflagellates, euglenoids, blue-green algae, and diatoms were often abundant on the mud and sand of polluted estuaries. Euglenoids sometimes attained an abundance of one million per gram of mud, while diatoms reached 13 million, and bacteria 564 million per gram. Ciliated protozoa, copepods and nematodes were numerous in polluted mud flats. The highest number of nematodes was estimated at 70,000 per gram of mud. Chlorophyll a content of the algae communities varied greatly in different locations, ranging for blue-green algae up to 532 mg Chl a per kg of wet mud, for mixtures of flagellates and diatoms up to 542 mg/kg, and for diatom populations varying up to 427 mg/kg of crude wet material. Assimilation numbers at light saturation averaged 0.55 for blue-green algae, 1.75 for diatoms, and 1.83 for mixed populations of flagellates and diatoms. Calculated daily productivity (mg C/m
10.2307/2484228|Communities of eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis (L.) Carr.) appear to be increasing in area at three sites in the Highlands of southeastern New York. Transects across ecotones in the Sterling Forest-Harriman Park region indicate advance of hemlock seedlings, saplings and mature growth. In some cases, hemlock saplings constitute upwards of 70% of seedlings and saplings and occupy a greater portion of ecotonal areas than do hardwoods. Mature hemlock growth dominates these transitional areas with importance values of 79 or greater. Invasion of broadleaf communities by hemlock apparently is being favored by the overall rise in precipitation levels over the past approximately 50 years. Once confined to steep-sloped ravines and northerly exposures, hemlock appears to be encroaching upon areas of modified relief as a result of more favorable microclimate. In addition to hemlock's ability to monopolize surface water supplies by virtue of its shallow, lateral rooting, other autecological features aid in facilitating a greater successional role for this conifer. These include hemlock's extreme light tolerance, its natural longevity and its ability to invade sites that reflect many different topographic and edaphic conditions.
10.2307/2995981|The vascular flora of granite outcrops in the Central Mineral Region of Texas includes 381 species in 255 genera and 88 families. Approximately 40% of the species belong to five families: Poaceae (56), Asteraceae (39), Cyperaceae (19), Fabaceae (18), and Polypodiaceae (15). Thirty-four families and 189 genera are represented by one species. The 23 species characteristic of granite outcrops display five distribution patterns: endemic, near-endemic, eastern, western, and wide-spread. A comparison of the granite outcrop floras of central Texas and the southeastern United States shows relatively few genera and species common to both regions; however, the life-form spectra are essentially identical. Drought-adapted therophytes and hemicryptophytes are dominant in both regions. This suggests that granite outcrops provide similar types of microenvironments despite major differences in the climate and surrounding vegetation of each region. The much higher proportion of endemics among the characteristic plants of granite outcrops in the Southeast (17) versus Texas (4) reflects a greater degree of geographical isolation and sharper discontinuity with the surrounding vegetation.
10.2307/2484106|The chromosome numbers of the two species of Byblis and their karyotypes are recorded, and compared here for the first time. The karyotype formulas for both species are as follows: Byblis gigantea Lindl.: K (2n = 14) = 2<sup>sat</sup> A<sup>ot</sup> + 2B<sup>sm</sup> + 2C<sup>m</sup> + 4D<sub>1</sub><sup>ot</sup> + 2D<sub>2</sub><sup>sm</sup> + 2E<sup>m</sup>; B. liniflora Salisb.: K (2n = 24) = 2A<sub>1</sub><sup>sm</sup> + 2<sup>sat</sup> A<sub>2</sub><sup>ot</sup> + 2B<sup>sm</sup> + 2<sup>sat</sup>C<sup>ot</sup> + 2D<sup>ot</sup> + 2E<sup>ot</sup> + 2F<sub>1</sub><sup>sm</sup> + 2<sup>sat</sup> F<sub>2</sub><sup>ot</sup> + 4G<sup>ot</sup> + 4H<sup>ot</sup>. Byblis is in an aneuploid series, and the basic chromosome numbers are X = 7 for B. gigantea and X = 12 for B. liniflora.
10.2307/2484589|Certain small bogs in morainic depressions in the Itasca Park area have acquired moats as the water table has risen since the drought conditions of the 1930's. The development of the moat appears to have been accompanied by a vigorous growth of sphagnum-heath bog in place of a sedge-dominated floating mat.
10.2307/2484377|Cytological studies of sporogenesis, gametogenesis and early embryology were undertaken to ascertain the status of the sexual reproductive potential in Texas Wildrice, an endangered endemic of the San Marcos River, Hays County, Texas. Megasporogenesis and megagametogenesis appear normal and conform closely to observations of other members of the genus. Microsporogenesis and microgametogenesis, pollination and early embryo development also appear regular. The present condition of the species is attributed to environmental rather than cytological factors.
10.2307/2483012|A soybean mutant, when crossed with a normal plant, gives rise to an F
10.2307/2482390|1. 1180 packets of the Parmelia conspersa-stenophylla lichen group from 892 localities in North America were examined for type of adnation, presence of apothecia, isidia, secondary laciniae, and pycnidia, and for chemical constituents. 2. Statistical analyses indicated significant association between adnate thalli and presence of isidia. Stictic acid was significantly associated with both adnate thalli and presence of isidia, salacinic with loose thalli. Apothecia, secondary laciniae, and pycnidia were not associated with any characters. 3. The basic morphological combinations were recognized as distinct species as follows, adnate-no isidia. P. conspersa (Ehrh.) Ach; adnate-with isidia: P. isidiata ( Anzi ) Gyel.; loose-no isidia: P. stenophylla (Ach.) Heug.; and loose-with isidia: P. isidiosa (Mull. Arg.) Hale, nov. comb. Each species exists as one to six chemical strains, most of which have definite geographical distributions.
10.2307/2482182|Briefly, the various points of interest concerning the ramifications of this plant are as follows: 1. Petiolar segments depart from the cauline stele at angles of approximately 120
10.2307/2996761|Spatial patterns of trees invading a tallgrass prairie in NE Kansas, USA were examined using a Geographical Information System. Without burning and with adequate moisture levels, the number of trees increased over a five year period by over 60%, while in an area burned annually the number of trees decreased. Under a variety of burning regimes Juniperus virginiana and Celtis occidentalis were significantly more uniform in their distribution pattern than Populus deltoides and Gleditsia triacanthos. In addition, three tree species (G. triacanthos, J. virginiana and U. americana) had a significant increase in the degree of aggregation with increasing tree height, while C. occidentalis showed no relationship between aggregation and tree height. There were significant associations between adult and juvenile trees at various scales, with bird dispersed J. virginiana having a higher critical distance (39 m) than winddispersed G. triacanthos and U. americana. The spatial pattern of tree species appears to be affected by the means of dispersion; trees with wind-dispersed seeds had clumped distributions, whereas most trees with bird-dispersed seeds were regular to random in their dispersion patterns, The spatial pattern of trees invading tallgrass prairie is a function of the burning regime, dispersal vectors, habitat availability and reproductive mode.
10.2307/2483718|During a two year period of study of the Coreopsis complex it was determined that a distinct population occurs on Stone Mountain in DeKalb County, Georgia. Characteristics exhibited by plants in this population are quite distinct from those found on the fifteen other outcrops sampled in four southeastern states. Coreopsis saxicola Alexander was observed only on Stone Mountain whereas C. grandiflora Hogg ex Sweet was abundant in the vicinity of all other outcrops visited.
10.2307/2484227|Equilibrium plant communities are established by uninterrupted successions over several centuries. However, these equilibrium communities are often relatively poorer in species than some non-equilibrium community that preceded them. This, coupled with the paucity of confirmed within-community niche differentiation, suggests that factors preventing the establishment of a competitive equilibrium are critical to the coexistence of plants. Disturbance occurs frequently enough in many systems to destroy or disadvantage the competitive dominants of late successional communities and so allow the coexistence of species with many degrees of competitive ability. Without disturbance the persistence of certain species is threatened. The concept of patch dynamics is used to generalize and emphasize non-equilibrium coexistence.
10.2307/2482083|1. The old question of the "primitive-or-specialized" status of the "Amentiferae" has been recently revived by the Swedish botanist, Hjelmqvist, who, in a long paper based solely on floral morphology (Hjelmqvist 1948), concludes that they are among the most primitive Angiosperms. 2. Attacking the problem from the point of view of wood anatomy, the writer selected at random 16 species of the recognized primitive order, Ranales, and 22 species of the long-debated group, Amentiferae, and examined their secondary xylem elements. 3. In a percentage comparison based largely on Tippo's criteria of structural evolution arrived at independently of any previously held idea that the Ranales or Amentiferae are primitive (Tippo 1938, 1946), the writer found the latter group to be decidedly more specialized than the former in all but three of 25 lines of specialization. Hence, from the point of view of the wood anatomy of the Amentiferae examined, there is very little to indicate that they are a primitive group. 4. The fibers of Clematis examined by the writer have distinctly bordered rather than simple pits as recorded by Metcalfe and Chalk (1950). 5. The perforation plates of Magnolia grandiflora have very narrow, complete borders, rather than no borders as recorded by Frost (1930a). Acknowledgments. The writer is especially indebted to Dr. Jennie L. S. Simpson of Hunter College who suggested this comparison and was very generous with her time and help; to Dr. Edmund W. Sinnott of Yale University who read the original manuscript and offered several helpful suggestions and criticisms; and to Dr. David D. Keck, Head Curator of The New York Botanical Garden, who went to great lengths to make specimens available at a time when, due to reorganization, they were very difficult to obtain. Other members of the New York Botanical Garden staff who were very kind in making material available were Dr. H. W. Rickett, Bibliographer; Mr. Thomas H. Everett, Horticulturist; Mr. E. J. Alexander, Curator; Mr. Louis P. Politi, Head Gardener; his very helpful secretary, Miss Bride McSweeney; Mr. Patrick Connolly, Greenhouse Foreman; and especially the ever-patient and untiring Miss Elizabeth C. Hall, Librarian. The writer also wishes to thank Dr. Harold H. Clum, Chairman of the Department of Biological Sciences at Hunter College, for his kind assistance; and Dr. Louis H. Teichman, Chairman of the Science Department of George Washington High School in Manhattan, for his interest and many helpful suggestions.
10.2307/2996832|Spatial patterns of fire temperatures from a tallgrass prairie and adjacent Gallery forest in northeast Kansas and a sandhill community in central Florida were recorded using temperature-sensitive pyrometers. The objectives of the study were to determine, in both habitats, the range of temperatures reached during prescribed burning under a range of different conditions. Both habitats are characterized by frequent, low-intensity fires confined to the herbaceous vegetation and low shrubs. In tallgrass prairie, fire temperature maxima ranged from 19 to 399
10.2307/2483792|Techniques of systematic serology have been used to analyse protein similarities among taxa of the genus Viburnum. Nephelometric and double diffusion analyses indicate that serological correspondence can be correlated with the sections of the genus derived from analyses of gross morphological characters. Each section of the genus reacted as a serological unit, with representatives of the most primitive section showing least serological correspondence with those of the most advanced section. A wide range of serological reactivity was observed among the species examined suggesting the possibility of raising the sections to a taxonomic level above section. However, all taxa were included in a distinct serological group indicating that Viburnum is a distinct taxon.
10.2307/2482752|Studies were made on the carbon and nitrogen nutrition of the two species of Radiomyces (Mucorales, Phycomycetes). Glucose, fructose and mannose supported growth but galactose did not. Trehalose was the only disaccharide utilized; no growth occurred on maltose, cellobiose, sucrose and lactose. Ammonium sulfate, asparagine and casein-hydrolysate were all used as nitrogen sources but KNO
10.2307/2483181|A new Sclerospora species, Sclerospora westonii sp. nov., is described growing on the leaves of Iseilema laxum in low-flying, water-stagnant areas near Poona, India.
10.2307/2483364|Putative hybrids between Sphenopholis obtusata and Trisetum pensylvanicum were found growing with the presumed parental species at three localities in northeastern North Carolina. They were intergradient in gross morphological characteristics between the parents. Analysis of local population samples (mass collections) by pictorialized scatter diagrams and evidence about chromosome number, pollen stainability, and female fertility in artificial crosses further corroborated our belief that hybridization had occurred. Chromosome numbers in all taxa were 2n = 14; this is the first report on chromosome number in Trisetum pensylvanicum. The two parental species had 0 to 38% self-fertility. Satisfactory meiotic pairing in hybrids indicated a close relationship between the two parental species. The nomenclatural application of the name, Sphenopholis pallens (Muhl. ex Bieler) Scribner is discussed. This name has in the past been used to refer to hybrids of any of the species of Sphenopholis with Trisetum pensylvanicum.
10.2307/2482088|1. The bald-cypress and pond-cypress cannot be distinguished from one another on the basis of microstructural features of their woods. 2. The similarity of the woods of these two forms further supports the view that the pond-cypress is a variation of the bald-cypress. 3. The wood of the Mexican or Montezuma cypress can be separated from the other two cypresses on the basis of its comparatively thinner horizontal walls of ray parenchyma cells.
10.2307/2996285|Five species of pines native to Pennsylvania occur in the 247 ha Meeting of the Pines Natural Area located in southcentral Pennsylvania. The pines are found mostly as single trees or in small clumps. Recognizable stands of table mountain pine (Pinus pungens) and pitch pine (Pinus rigida) appear along a steep, rocky upper slope. Except for this narrow fringe of pine, the area is predominantly oak, chestnut oak (Quercus prinus) being most numerous. The present overstory forest is the result of nearly 2 centuries of human activity and natural responses, which are described. Studies conducted in the summer of 1980 document the present forest composition for overstory, understory, and seedling stages of arborescent species. The 1980 data show a substantial decline in the number and vigor of pines. This, combined with the lack of pine regeneration, indicates an uncertain future for the Meeting of the Pines Natural Area as a showplace for the pines of Pennsylvania.
10.2307/2482754|Cyclostachya (Tribe Chlorideae), a monotypic genus of dioecious grasses from central Mexico, is described as new. It is based on Bouteloua stolonifera Seribn., which had been known only from pistillate material. The staminate plants are here described for the first time. In addition to its dicliny, the new genus may be distinguished from Bouteloua by the hyaline ligule. Comparison is made with the related diclinous and stoloniferous genera Opizia, Buchloe, Pringleochloa, and Fourniera. A key is included
10.2307/2484540|The purpose of the study was to investigate the possibility that allelopathic and autotoxic phenomena influence the results of competitive interactions between Convolvulus sepium and associated species on the Piedmont of New Jersey. Field observations and greenhouse experiments were performed on the effects of soil from patches of C. sepium on germination and growth and the effects of leachate of this species on growth. Past reports and field observations indicated that (1) certain species growing in areas inhabited by C sepium appear inhibited even during its dormant period and even after hand-weeding removes it as a competitor, and (2) when initially dominant, the species often declines in importance during the early stages of old field succession. Allelopathic effects of C. sepium varied with the species tested. Amaranthus retroflexus, Chenopodium album, Digitaria sanguinalis, and Triticum aestivum were significantly inhibited at all stages of development investigated. Portulaca oleracea was inhibited only during germination and seedling development. Autotoxicity was statistically significant in all controlled environment studies. The interaction of such allelopathic and autotoxic effects in the early stages of secondary succession is discussed.
10.2307/2483857|Chromosome numbers of 14 of the 24 recognized species of Cienfuegosia Cav. are reported, six of which are new. Numbers are also reported for four of the 17 recognized taxa of Hampea Schlecht., three of which are new. Chromosome-number data support the previous separation of the species of Cienfuegosia into two alliances, subgenus Articulata, of Afro-Arabian distribution, with n = 11, and subgenus Cienfuegosia, of largely American distribution, with n = 10. Chiasma frequencies in Cienfuegosia vary from 1.35 to 1.90 per bivalent. Chromosomes in Cienfuegosia fall in about the same size range as those of three species of Gossypium L. drawn for comparative purposes (representatives of the A, C, and D genomes, with large, intermediate, and small chromosomes, respectively). Some plants of one species, Cienfuegosia rosei Fryx., show attenuated bivalents, conspicuous cytological irregularities, and pollen sterility. Analysis of F
10.2307/2484031|Both scopoletin and chlorogenic acid are natural growth inhibitors which have previously been shown to increase in plants under a variety of stress conditions. In order to determine if these inhibitors interfere with stomatal function, tobacco and sunflower seedlings were treated with scopoletin or chlorogenic acid in a nutrient culture. After treatment, daily measurements were made of stomatal apertures by making Duco cement prints from the lower epidermis. It was found that 10
10.2307/2482229|1. The theories of double fusion and brachymeiosis in the Ascomycetes and their present status are very briefly outlined. 2. Ascobolus magnificus Dodge, collected in Greenfield, Massachusetts, was isolated and grown to maturity in artificial culture. 3. A. magnificus is confirmed as a heterothallic species. 4. The cytological development of the ascus was followed with the aid of a modified propiono-carmine staining technique. 5. The phase-contrast microscope was found to be a valuable tool, when used in combination with carmine smears, for cytological studies. 6. Behavior of the nucleolus is described during nuclear divisions in the ascus and the presence of a nucleolus chromosome is reported. 7. Heteropyknosis was observed in the nuclei of the ascus. 8. There are apparently eight bivalent chromosomes at metaphase of the first division in the ascus. Approximately eight chromosomes were observed passing to each pole during anaphase of the third division in the ascus and the same number of chromosomes has been counted in the newly-formed spores. 9. No evidence of brachymeiosis was found during the present investigation of Ascobolus magnificus.
10.2307/2482935|Pieris phillyreifolia, the only liana in the American Ericaceae, ascends trunks of Taxodium ascendens by creeping upwards tightly appressed within the bark. In addition to the liana form, P. phillyreifolia also grows on organic humps such as stumps, dead knees or fallen logs, within areas of standing water in swamps and bays of the southern coastal plain. While the fundamental anatomy is typical of the Ericaceae, the shoot apex is specialized into a knife-like wedge that is able to force its way upwards in the bark of T. ascendens. The stem is much flattened, developing lateral flanges of cortex. As it matures, ample production of xylem tends to make the stem more nearly cylindric. Clear-cut annual growth layers are not produced and the xylem is pronouncedly diffuse-porous. In addition to the main stem in Taxodium bark, branches come out into the air at intervals, producing normal photosynthetic leaves. Since the growth habit seems specifically suited to T. ascendens as a "substrate", and since the species is a liana in a family rarely producing climbers, it may be postulated that these adaptations in structure and tropisms are of recent origin.
10.2307/2482612|The ecology of Batrachospermum sp. was studied in a spring-fed stream and its tributaries from February 1959 through August 1962. The stream was relatively chemo- and thermostatic near its source, with the greatest variation occurring in the discharge. The Chantransia stage of the plant was perennial, with maximal monospore production in summer following disintegration of sexual thalli. Sexual thalli appeared in September, became luxuriant by February, and were present until June when disintegration occurred. Seasonal changes in occurrence of the sexual thalli did not appear to result from changes in conditions of the stream. Growth and development occurred in winter, and that period had the greatest amount of incoming light. Heavy shading by riparian vegetation in summer caused lower light conditions at that time. It is suggested that disintegration of the thalli in summer results from qualitative changes in light, rather than by development of higher light intensities as has been assumed by other workers. In Doe Run the alga was commonest in currents exceeding 12 cm/sec. Downstream occurrence of sexual thalli was limited by increased variability in discharg, substrate, and temperatures; by silt or marl deposition; and possibly by insufficient amounts of unbound carbon dioxide in the water.
10.2307/2483113|1. Aerobic, heterotrophic, marine bacteria have been found to participate actively in the decomposition of Spartina, both in the field and in the laboratory. Thirty-five per cent of 125 isolates obtained from sea water and marsh mud near Sapelo Island, Georgia, grew in sea water marsh grass extract medium more luxuriantly than in sea water Difco nutrient broth. 2. Assuming similar relationships to hold in nature and in the laboratory quantititive data provided an estimate that about eleven per cent of the annual crop of marsh grass may be rapidly converted to bacteria (dry weight basis). Microbial utilization of crude fiber takes place more slowly than decomposition and use of protein and soluble carbohydrate constituents. 3. Marsh mud extracts failed to serve as an enrichment medium for aerobic heterotrophic bacteria unless supplemented with organic materials, such as casein hydrolysate or grass extract. Supplements of dextrose, phosphate, or ammonium nitrate were generally ineffective. Numerous bacterial isolates from water and mud were able to grow well on extracts of Spartina in either natural or artificial sea water. 4. Bacterial isolates did not possess specific requirements for single amino acids, although growth in the presence of sources of amino nitrogen was generally better than on ammonium sulfate. Growth in the presence of multiple mixtures of pure amino acids or hydrolysed casein was better than growth on single amino acids. Among the combinations of pure amino acids studied, a mixture of alanine, aspartic acid, and glutamic acid yielded very good growth. 5. In the estuarine waters of the Georgia sea island region, where salinity varies greatly with changes in the seasons and tides, both euryhaline and stenohaline types of bacteria occur as natural adaptations to the fluctuating conditions of the environment.
10.2307/2482857|Two common and easily confused species of this pyrophilous, operculate discomycete genus are characterized, P. domesticum and P. omphalodes, and various taxonomic characters are evaluated.
10.2307/2996997|An annotated flora of Perdido Key in Escambia County, Florida is presented. The flora results from collections during the period from 1979 to 1991. There are 323 taxa of vascular plants and two non-vascular taxa. The flora included 83 families and 185 genera. Nine new records for Escambia County, Florida, were collected and seven species were found only in the island seedbank. The families containing the largest number of taxa were Gramineae (61), Cyperaceae (34), Compositae (29), and Leguminosae (18). The largest numbers of taxa per genus were found in Panicum (18), Cyperus (10), and Polygala (7). The fewest species (15) occurred in the strand habitats while the greatest number of species (98) occurred in the swales. A monocot/dicot ratio of 0.71 appears to be similar to nine other Gulf of Mexico barrier islands. A gradient of disturbance based on this ratio is hypothesized. There may also be an historical component to this ratio, but more intense study is required for a complete understanding of the floral relationships between barrier islands.
10.2307/2484906|The effect of human activities over the years (farming, military construction, maintenance of nesting sites for terns) on the vegetation of the island is discussed. The present nature and distribution of the flora is discussed and a list of species collected in 1979 and 1980 is presented.
10.2307/2482208|Saururus cernuus has a geographic range from Montreal, Quebec, to Texas and to Florida. It often forms extensive colonies affording excellent breeding places for anopheline mosquitoes, and, for that reason, the plant is considered a pest. Chromosome counts for plants from twelve localities have been made: 2n = 22, n = 11. An n-number of 10 has been reported by other workers. Saururus likewise has a species in Asia. Houttuynia is a related monotypic genus in Asia; for it differing chromosome numbers and conflicting accounts of parthenogenesis are in the literature. Anemopsis is a second monotypic genus showing affinity to Saururus; it is in the southwestern United States and adjacent Mexico. Some authors refer these four species in three genera to the family Saururaceae; others, to the tribe Saurureae of the Piperaceae.
10.2307/2996853|Cluster and principal coordinate analyses of Diarrhena americana (Poaceae) revealed two non-overlapping groups of OTU's corresponding to Diarrhena americana var. americana and var. obovata. A stepwise discriminant functions analysis used four characters to effect complete separation of the two groups of OTU's. Two caryopsis types-differing in size, shape, beak, and degree of pericarp-seed coat fusion-occur and are correlated with the two taxa. Consequently, recognition of two species is warranted, and the new combination Diarrhena obovata is made.
10.2307/2482333|A study has been made of the eastern American jack-in-the-pulpits that have, in the broad sense, been considered as Arisaema triphyllum. These comprise a single species consisting of three major races. One of these races is widespread in eastern North America and, seemingly, predominantly tetraploid. The two others are diploid and more restricted in range. Of these, one is essentially northern and upland; the other is essentially southern and coastal. A sufficient degree of overlapping in the morphological characters has been found to support the treatment of these three races as subspecies, rather than full species. Restudy of the elements concerned in the original publication of Arum triphyllum L., the basonym of Arisaema triphyllum, indicates that the widespread tetraploid should be considered as the typical element and it is here designated as subsp, triphyllum. The other two subspecies are designated as subsp. Stewardsonii and pusillum. It is considered most probable that these three races arose from a common stock, with subsequent geographical and ploidal divergence of morphological types.
10.2307/2996861|The flowers of Ruellia radicans produce copious amounts of nectar which serves as an attractant for hummingbirds, the presumed pollinators. The annular nectaries surrounding the ovaries continue to secrete nectar after the corollas have fallen. Ants are attracted to the droplets of post-floral nectar which is substantially higher in sugar concentration than that produced at the time of anthesis.
10.2307/2484501|A taxonomy of fungi and algae based largely on morphology is universally accepted as a sound approach for many groups. But in some groups, such as Mycelia Sterilia, many yeasts and soil algae, the few morphological characters available are insufficient to distinguish organisms that are genetically distinct. In such cases, morphological simplicity masks genetic diversity. Similarities in morphological complexity, as seen for example in form genera, may also mask genetic diversity. Conversely, morphological diversity may mask genetic similarity, as illustrated by the phenomenon of alternation of generations and the occurrence of perfect and imperfect states. In addition, appropriate morphological structures may be rare, may require special conditions in order to develop, may be detectable only with highly specialized equipment, or may vary with environmental conditions. Electrophoietic protein profiles provide solutions to some of these problems. Profiles, prepared relatively easily and rapidly from any living fungus or alga, preferably in pure culture, are amenable to objective and quantitative analysis, and, if prepared from an isolate in a standard way, are reproducible on different occasions. At present, further information is needed on the influence of morphogenesis and environment on protein profiles and the reliability of these profiles as indicators of genetic relationships.
10.2307/2482449|1. A brief review of the taxonomy and geographic distribution, and a somewhat detailed cytological report is made on the five described species of the subsection Halepensia of the genus Sorghum. 2. One species, S. propinquum, is found to be a tetraploid with 2n = 20, whereas the others, S. halepense, S. miliaceum, S. controversum, and S. almum are all 2n = 40. All of the octoploids (2n = 40) have some cytological irregularities at meiosis such as univalents, trivalents, quadrivalents and hexavalents at metaphase I and lagging chromosomes at anaphase I. There are, however, differences in the frequency of these irregularities with the Southeast Asian species, S. miliaceum and S. controversum, being most regular. the Mediterranean species, S. halepense, intermediate, and the South American species, S. almum, having the most irregularities. 4. S. propinquum was crossed with two tetraploid species of the subsection Arundinacea, S. sudanense and S. vulgare, and the F
10.2307/2483444|Based on morphological and cultural studies, descriptions of two new species of Cephalosporium; viz. C. candidum and C. purpurascens, and three new varieties viz. C. acremonium var. funiculosum, C. curtipes var. uredinicola and C. candidum var. arachnoides are given in the present paper. C. acremonium var. uniseptatum Massee previously described from Jamaica is a new record for India. C. curtipes var. uredinicola parasites the uredia of rusts.
10.2307/2483528|Woronina pythii Goldie-Smith was observed as a parasite of Pythium sp., which had been isolated from dry brackish soil at Mandapam Camp, Rhamnad District, Madras State, and grown in brackish tap water. The life cycle, development and general morphology of the Indian isolate of this parasite conforms to those described previously in the literature, but the cytosori exhibit a higher degree of variation. No evidence of fusion of zoospores produced by the zoosporangia or the germinated resting spores was observed. In addition to this species two other members of the Plasmodiophoraceae were found in India, Sorodiscus cokeri Goldie-Smith and Woronina polycystis Cornu as parasites of Pythium and Saprolegnia, respectively.
10.2307/2483968|The population dynamics of three species of oak vary with slope position and help to explain the distribution patterns of Quercus rubra L., Q. prinus L., and Q. coccinea Muenchh. along southern Appalachian slopes. Gradient analysis techniques were used to determine the relationships of distribution, reproduction, and seedling growth to slope position and aspect and to the associated soil, light, and moisture gradients. Reproduction up a slope takes place in gradients of decreasing soil nutrients and moisture, increasing soil clay content, and increasing light intensity. Q. rubra, which had the highest seedling yield and growth rate under all experimental light intensities, soil types, and moisture levels, is dominant on the lower slopes but yields its dominance on the upper slopes to the slower growing Q. prinus and Q. coccinea. The seedlings of each species are more widely distributed over the slope than are adult individuals of the same species. On the lower slopes, young individuals of Q. rubra have a lower probability of mortality than do those of Q. prinus due to the former's tolerance for the low light intensity and its high growth rate, which permits it to compete with the other fast growing trees there. A presumed replacement of Q. rubra by Q. prinus and O. coccinea upslope is related to the low nutrient demand of the latter, which allows them to persist and eventually grow faster than Q. rubra beyond the pole stage, and to their more abundant production of offspring (partly by sprouting). In turn, on the ridge, Q. coccinea, rather than Q. prinus, assumes dominance as a result of its greater ability to withstand the occasional droughts there and to grow at lower levels of soil moisture.
10.2307/2483739|Certain weeds from Stage 1 of old-field succession and Aristida oligantha from Stage 2 were inhibitory in several ways to the nitrogen-fixing soil algae, whereas Andropogon scoparius from stage 3 and the climax was not inhibitory in most tests. These results complement the findings of other research which indicated similar inhibitions of nitrogen-fixing bacteria and the inhibition of effective nodulation of legumes by many of the same species. The combined effects may result in a slowing of the rate of addition of nitrogen to infertile old-fields and, thus, the slowing of succession. This could explain why the intermediate stages remain so long.
10.2307/2484005|The study involved the nature of ecotypic differentiation, and its adaptive significance, in switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.). Plant materials were transplanted from their natural habitats to a uniform garden in Fort Collins, Colorado. Data analyses showed significant differences in comparative growth and development among the different collections during the three-year study. The pattern of relative phenological development generally coincided with the comparative length of the growing season in the former habitat. Period of active growth, maximum height, production, and number of inflorescences of the various collections at the transplant garden exhibited a general increase from north to south and from higher to lower elevations. Switchgrass showed significant, and often distinctive, intraspecific morphologic variation among plants from different collection sites. For much of this morphological diversity, however, there was no readily apparent adaptive significance.
10.2307/2996698|The vegetation at Cape May Point State Park, Cape May County, New Jersey was extensively studied from June 1977 to November 1985 by P. Sutton; while specimens were collected from July 1987 to October 1988 by R. Stalter. Three hundred seventy-seven specific and subspecific taxa of vascular plants were identified in 219 genera and 79 families. Panicum mutabile is a new record for New Jersey. Nine species are new records for Cape May County. Largest families are Poaceae (64 species) and Asteraceae (64 species) and Asteraceae (62 species) with Panicum, Juncus and Solidago as largest genera. Thirty-four percent of the taxa are not native to the United States.
10.2307/2481798|Three new species of Chytriomyces, C. Closterii, C. lucidus, and C. fructicosus were found in fresh-water and soil in various parts in Maryland. Chytriomyces Closterii parasitizes Closterium rostratum and appears to be limited in host range to this alga. It is distinguishable by small spherical or broadly pyriform sporangia, minute zoospores, and spherical, hyaline resting spores. The other two species are saprophytes and were isolated from soil and water on cellulosic and chitinic substrata. Chytriomyces lucidus is characterized primarily by large zoospores with an unusually large refractive globule which gives them and the sporangia a glistening appearance, and by stiff-looking and bristly rhizoids, and hyaline, smooth resting spores. It was isolated and growing on bits of onion skin, and does not grow on chitinous substrata. In contrast, C. fructicosus is chitinophilic in relation to its substrata. It is distinguishable by its bushy rhizoids which arise from one or more apophyses, appendiculate sporangia, and spiny, greenish-brown resting spores. It was often found to be parasitized by another Rhizophydium-like chytrid. In addition to these new species of Chytriomyces, C. hyalinus, C. aureus, C. appendiculatus, C. spinosus, and C. stellatus were ioslated from soil and water in various parts of Maryland
10.2307/2484015|The floral anatomy of U. caerulea and U. stricticaulis has been described. The floral parts and their traces show connation, adnation and reduction. Anatomy shows the calyx to be pentamerous, although this is obscured grossly because it is bilobed. The sepals show three vascular bundles, and a tendency towards suppression of the lateral bundles of the sepals is noticed. The corolla is gamopetalous, pentamerous and, like the calyx, is bilipped. The petals are traversed by a single vascular bundle, which in turn branches further. There are only two stamens, anterolateral in position. The bicarpellary, syncarpous ovary is superior, its numerous ovules borne on a free central placenta. The stigma has two lobes only one of which, the anterior, is functional. Multicellular stalked glandular hairs are present on the floral parts. The glandular head is eight-celled in Utricularia caerulea and two-celled in U. stricticaulis.
10.2307/2996183|A study of pioneer plant communities in northern Florida revealed strong differences in species composition and species richness among communities resulting from six different harrowing times per year. The abundance of many species, including some vegetatively regenerating perennials, was dependent on season of disturbance. Species richness was high in the August and December harrowed fields, while low in the April harrowed fields, which had relatively few perennial species. The varying abundances of component species among time of harrowing treatments were the result of periodic regeneration and competitive interactions. Unlike early successional communities in some regions, there was no consistently dominant annual species.
10.2307/2996750|We examined herb-layer plant communities in three microsites in each of 28 treefall pit and mound complexes in 1988 and again in 1992 in an old-growth forest in northwest Pennsylvania. Plant communities differed significantly between microsites in both years. Mounds and areas of adjacent undisturbed soil had greater total cover, seedling density, and species richness than did pits. Species richness was negatively correlated with depth of litter, possibly explaining community differences among microsites. Over the four years, herb-layer communities changed only slightly within the three microsites. While total plant cover decreased in the mounds, it increased in the pits and areas of undisturbed soil. Prunus serotina seedling density increased dramatically from 1988 to 1992, while that of other tree species changed only slightly. Percent cover of all other tree species except Fagus grandifolia remained relatively stable. Many of these changes were small relative to the 1988 mean, demonstrating that while a few species may fluctuate in abundance over time scales of several growing seasons, these plant communities appear to be comparatively stable assemblages.
10.2307/2484356|This revision, based on the study of approximately 1500 herbarium specimens and field work, recognizes two subgenera, including Chamissoa subgenus Achlamys (Moquin) comb. nov., and two species with five varieties, including C. acuminata var. maximilianii (Moquin) comb. nov., and C. acuminata var. swansonii var. nov. Illustrations and distribution maps are provided.
10.2307/2996492|Cenchrus cilaris L and Bothriochloa pertusa (L)A Camus, individually grown with Chrysopogon aucheri, Hyparrhenia rufa, Bothriochloa pertusa, Cenchrus ciliaris, Panicum antidotale, Setaria italica and Pennisetum americanum in various combinations, mutually suppressed each other's growth in root mixed treatments. Both the grasses exhibited auto-interference The growth and number of various wild species appearing simultaneously or subsequently in pots and field plots which previously either had and/or were still under Cenchrus ciliaris and Bothriochloa pertusa cover, were both significantly decreased The growth was inhibited through roots since shoot separated treatments had no effect on the growth of associated species The observed suppressed growth and density of the species under similar physical environments suggested the presence of a biochemical inhibition mechanism which probably is assisted by competition for the physical factors of the environment Further study is in progress to explore any allelopathic mechanism by these two grasses
10.2307/2481947|1. A method has been outlined for obtaining and preserving the pollen of Ginkgo under sterile conditions. 2. The advantage of the technique has been emphasized as the lowering of the metabolic rate of the pollen while it is held within the sporangium, followed by subsequent dehiscence at a low temperature. 3. Germination of both the fresh and the preserved pollen, the latter after storage for more than two years, has been successful on several media, one of which is outlined in detail
10.2307/2482838|1. The Millstone River flood plain has been intensively farmed in the past. Thirty-three percent of it is still in agricultural use. Fourteen percent has been recently abandoned from agricultural use and is occupied by a matrix of herbaceous vegetation with thickets, clumps, or scattered individuals of woody plants. Forty-nine percent is now occupied by woodland and 4 percent by marshes. 2. Natural revegetation of agricultural land after farming ceases is rapid. Rank perennial herbs may, however, inhibit the establishment of woody plants so that wherever trees or shrubs do not become established at first, early herbaceous glades may persist for a long time-until shaded out by spreading branches of trees or by vegetative clonal spread of shrubs
10.2307/2482763|1. The structure of the shoot apex is described for 7 species of Bombax. The apex is relatively large for an angiosperm and according to the accounts in the literature is exceeded in size only by certain members of the Cactaceae and Palmaceae. A single layered tunica predominates. Two instances were observed in B. malabaricum in which tunica initials had been partitioned by periclinal walls. 2. A well developed flanking zone surrounds a conspicuous zone to which the term metrameristem is applied. 3. From 6 to 95 percent of the metrameristem lies below the free dome of the apex. It is proposed that where possible the dimensions of the metrameristem be considered with those of the free dome of the apex in comparative studies. 4. Instances were found in B. ellipticum and B. sessilis in which there was little histological distinction between the metrameristem and the flanking and pith rib meristems.
10.2307/2484221|Tepals of the four white-flowered species of Chlorogalum absorb longwave (350-400 nm) ultraviolet radiation. Chlorogalum purpureum corollas reflect longwave UV except in the strongly absorbing midrib region. Contrast in the floral UV patterns in all species is provided by the greater absorbance of the androecia and gynoecia relative to the perianths. Rounded, bead-like epidermal cells of the ovaries may be involved in the specular reflection observed in visible and longwave ultraviolet light. A correlation between differences in shape and orientation and UV absorption and reflection in tepal epidermal cells is seen in C. purpureum. Based on UV patterns, floral morphology, and nectar and odor production, it is suggested that the diurnal- and vespertine-flowering species of Chlorogalum are well adapted for diurnal and crepuscular pollination, respectively. Field observations and reports in the literature indicate that the activities of nocturnal insects are presently of little importance in the genus.
10.2307/2996692|The anatomy and morphology of leaves, stem and taproot of Ipomoea quamoclit L. are described. The leaves of this annual twining vine are deeply pinnatifid. Paracytic stomata and multicellular, glandular and unicellular, eglandular trichomes occur on both the leaves and stem. Bicollateral bundles comprise the midrib and major veins, while the minor veins consist of collateral bundles. A petiole base possesses two adaxial collateral bundles and one or two abaxial bicollateral bundles. The lamina has well-defined palisade and spongy mesophyll layers. Development of stem vasculature of this twining vine may be separated into five ontogenetic stages, namely: the bicollateral bundle stage, the cambium-like meristem stage, the normal cambial stage, the anomalous cambial stage and the supernumerary cambial stage. The primary vasculature of the stem consists of bicollateral bundles. Within these bundles the external protophloem becomes separated from the protoxylem and internal phloem by a cambium-like meristem that produces cylinders of external metaphloem and metaxylem. A cambium then arises between the external phloem and the primary xylem and produces secondary phloem centrifugally and secondary xylem centripetally. Lobed, concentric and foraminate patterns of anomalous secondary growth subsequently develop in a stem. The lobed pattern develops as the cambium undergoes differential activity on opposing sides of the stem, while a concentric pattern results from the activity of a discontinuous supernumerary cambium. A foraminate pattern develops as included phloem forms within parenchymatous islands of the secondary xylem. Ipomoea quamoclit possesses a taproot whose outer boundary is a periderm of subepidermal origin. A foraminate pattern of anomalous secondary growth develops within this root.
10.2307/2560358|The use of scanning electron microscopy has made possible a detailed study of foliar surface features such as vestiture, trichome types, papillae, and glaucousness. Forty-two species of oaks recognized in eastern North America have been surveyed. Descriptions are given for the vestiture and trichome complement of each species using standardized terminology. Illustrations are given for most species.
10.2307/2483858|Iodophanus crystallinus is described as new for a small operculate discomycete identified as "Ascophanus" on straw from Ceylon. Comparative morphological and cytochemical features are made with those of coprophilous and lignicolous species of Iodophanus.
10.2307/2996259|Scanning electron microscopy was used to examine the surfaces of leaves of representatives of six native evergreen rhododendrons. Seven trichome types are recognized, necessitating some terminology previously unused in the genus. Six vestiture types and four cuticular patterns are described A. ferruminate surface, formed by the degradation and conglutination of trichomes, is described for R. maximum. The trichome complements and cuticular patterns correlate well with the subgeneric classification, and provide an aid in distinguishing the two species of elepidote rhododendrons, but do not show differences among the three taxa of the lepidote R. minus complex. Descriptions and illustrations are given for all species.
10.2307/2481979|1. Natural hybridization between species of North American thistles apparently first was postulated by Asa Gray about seventy-five years ago. Subsequent authors, particularly Rydberg and Petrak, continued to report its occurrence without attempting other than descriptive records. 2. This paper constitutes an attempt to analyze through population samples a rather distinctive occurrence at one locality of putative natural hybridization between two species, C. discolor and C. muticum. These two species appeared to have been brought together through disturbances of their natural environments. For the most part the individual plants seemed to have maintained fully their specific identities. Numerous interspecific hybrids, occurred, however, in an area which roughly was along the zone of contact between the species. 3. Population samples of the species and their hybrids were collected Each individual plant was tabulated for flower color, diameter of the involucre, length of involucral spines, color of achenes, length of achenes and basal diameter of the stem. Pictorialized scatter diagrams were then constructed for each plant of all three population samples utilizing all characters tabulated except basal diameter of the stem. A study of these diagrams indicated that most of the hybrids were intermediate between the parents in all of the characters analyzed. There was evidence of some back-crossing to both parents, particularly to C. muticum. 4. Analysis of the root systems and pubescence and morphology of the leaves of both species and their hybrids indicated that the latter were also intermediate in their expression of these characters, although their ranges in variability were greater. 5. A study of the pollen demonstrated that the hybrids ordinarily produced less than 3% fully formed pollen. Both species produced over 90% fully formed pollen in all flowers examined. 6. In a great majority of cases, less than 5% of the flowers in the hybrids matured their achenes. In both C. discolor and C. muticum a large majority of the flowers were fertile and matured achenes. 7. Hybridization at the locality studied although continuing, apparently has not altered materially the parental species through introgression. There is, however, some evidence of introgression of C. discolor into C. muticum, and less evidence of introgression in the opposite direction. The ultimate products of introgression may, however, be of such a nature that they have been rendered undetectable by the methods used. 8. It seems probable in this instance of natural hybridization that the hybrids are physiologically intermediate between their parents, and that this intermediacy is evidenced by their intermediate habitat preferences. 9. Evidence substantiating the reality of natural hybridization between C. discolor and C. muticum is supplied by the progeny of a putative F
10.2307/2484610|A new species, Gibasis speciosa, is described from near El Salto, Durango, in the Sierra Madre Occidental. It is related to G. linearis (Benth.) Rohw., G. rhodantha (Torr.) Reveal & Hess and G. heterophylla (Brandeg.) Reveal & Hess, all placed in the newly-proposed Section Stenygrophylla. The new species may be distinguished from the other entities of the section by its elongated anther connective and glabrous peduncles, pedicels and sepals.
10.2307/2996019|Several different types of diameter distributions have previously been proposed as characteristic of forest stands in demographic equilibrium, but the ubiquitous character of natural disturbances makes it unlikely that the form of equilibrium distributions can be determined by field studies. In this study, existing diameter distributions of old growth, uneven-aged stands of sugar maple (Acer saccharum) were projected forward in time using a model based on size-specific growth and mortality functions Although the initial diameter distributions show deviations from a smooth, steeply descending curve, these deviations do not persist under simulated equilibrium conditions of constant sapling recruitment and no exogenous disturbance Plots of these equilibrium curves on semilogarithmic and double logarithmic scales indicate that they deviate markedly from both the negative exponential and negative power functions, and most closely resemble "rotated sigmoid" curves It appears reasonable to interpret major deviations from descending monotonic curves as evidence of past non-equilibrium conditions, but a straight-line diameter distribution on semilogarithmic or log-log scales should not be used as a standard for inferring the occurrence of past disturbance in this forest type.
10.2307/2996659|Enzyme electrophoresis was used to assess genetic diversity within and among populations of Rhaphithamnus venustus (Phil.) Skottsb. (Verbenaceae), a species endemic to the Juan Fernandez Islands, Chile. The species is a gynodioecious tree that occurs in very small populations scattered throughout the island of Masatierra and also is found on Masafuera. The flowers are pollinated by hummingbirds. Total genetic diversity (H
10.2307/2996746|The development of secondary metabolites was examined in fruit pulp of Ilex opaca and Ilex verticillata, two bird-dispersed fruits with different patterns of persistence. Fruit pulp of both species contains phenolics, saponins, sclereids and calcium oxalate crystals. Unripe and ripe fruits were collected from six trees of each species from petal drop until after ripening and again after several hard freezes during 1987 and 1988. Pulp was analyzed for phenolic content using the Folin-Denis test and for saponins using hemolysis. Fruit skins were examined for lignification and quantity of sclereids. Development of phenolics showed similar patterns for both species over two years, while development of saponins was very different between the two species. Ilex verticillata had a sharp rise in mid-development while I. opaca had a constant level. In both species phenolics and saponins showed significant decreases coinciding with color change in fruits from green to red. Lignification of sclereids occurred early in fruit development of both species. There were significant differences in quantity and position of sclereids in the fruit skins, with fruits of I. opaca having more sclereids closer to epidermal cells than those of I. verticillata.
10.2307/2484045|Canavalia (Leguminosae) develops an almost continuous cylinder of procambium at an early stage of stem development. As a result of repeated periclinal divisions, the procambial cells are arranged in radial rows. Radial and transverse divisions also occur frequently in the procambium. The procambium becomes organized, early in the development, in two systems, one of elongated cells, the other of short cells ia axial strands. The term primordial fusiform initial is introduced to denote the elongated procambial cells which give rise to cambial fusiform initials. Primordial ray initials refers to the short cells which form ray initials in the cambium. Usually, only a single radial row of primary xylem vessels differentiates in the central position of each strand. Laterally, the radial rows of cells differentiate into enlarged prosenchymatous elements and short cells. A cylinder of narrow prosenchymatous elements and short cells is formed external to the wide prosenchymatous cells. The inner cells in this cylinder of narrow elements primary in origin, while the outer cells represent the first secondary xylem. Subsequently, secondary xylem is formed by a stratified cambium, and consists of wide yessels, abundant axial parenchyma, small groups of fibers, and rays 2-3 cells wide. A study of serial tangential sections of the xylem reveals a decrease in length in the cells of the primary xylem, primarily as a result of transverse divisions in the procambial cells. The findings are discussed in relation to the development and structure of the vascular meristem and vascular tissues in other plants.
10.2307/2484401|In central Minnesota winter biomass was determined for Typha glauca and Sparganium eurycarpum after all the current year's growth had died. Typha had 1040 g/m
10.2307/2484923|Pollen in surface samples collected within 30 successional communities dominated by Douglas fir in different sectors of the Puget Lowland averaged only 9% Douglas fir and 78% alder. Structural data from 5 selected stands substantiate that Douglas fir at 73% total basal area is underrepresented in the pollen rain and alder at close to 2% is overrepresented. During early postglacial succession, between about 10,000 and 7,000 years ago, Douglas fir in fossil pollen spectra from 5 lacustrine deposits in the Lowland reached an average maximum of 51% while alder reached 41%. The change in the Douglas fir-alder ratio is attributed to a larger proportion of Douglas fir in the early postglacial communities and fewer trees/ha during an interval when climate on the whole was warmer and drier than today.
10.2307/2482591|1. The nomenclature of Cucurbita mixta is reviewed, and a botanical description of the species based on the study of a number of varieties is given. 2. The varieties of the species are separated into three classes on the basis of seed type. 3. There is available sufficient evidence from hybridization experiments, to indicate that C. mixta is separated from the other annual species of Cucurbita by sterility barriers so effectively that its status as a good species cannot be questioned. The evidence from morphology leads to the same conclusion. Likewise, the results of interspecific hybridization suggest that C. mixta may be more closely related to C. moschata than to C. pepo or C. maxima. This is not surprising, since the geographical distribution of these two species points to the same conclusion.
10.2307/2996773|Saruma henryi Oliv., a Chinese monotype of the Aristolochiaceae, is described anatomically. It shows such typical aristolochiaceous features as a thin leaf mesophyll with spherical oil cells; simple uniseriate hairs of different length and size; anomocytic stomata; trilacunar nodes with two vascular bundles confronting the median gap; and a petiole containing an arc of three or more widely separated bundles. Shared xylem features between Aristolochiaceae, Lactoridaceae, and Piperaceae include vessel elements with simple perforation plates, vessels in radial chains and multiples, and vessel pitting scalariform to alternate. Saruma is anatomically distinct from other Aristolochiaceae in the absence of xylem rays and axial parenchyma. These distinct structural features represent a previously unreported shift toward the replacement of both wood rays and axial parenchyma by living, fiber-like elements that store starch. The elimination of true axial and ray parenchyma and its total substitution by short, nucleated, living ground cells can be related to an increased storage capacity and mechanical strength.
10.2307/2481882|The somatic chromosome number of S. purpurea, S. psittacina, S. drummondii, S. tiara, S. jonesii, S. rubra, and of a putative hybrid of S. drummondii and S. flava was found to be 26. Previous counts for two of these species, S. purpurea and S. rubra, and a third not involved in the present study have been reported as n = 12.
10.2307/2560352|Plot sampling was conducted in high elevation disturbed communities in Great Smoky Mountains National Park. Sites included grassy balds, fields, wooded balds, burn scars, mowed roadsides and shelter clearings. The areas presently mowed, trampled or grazed were found to be very similar, their flora little influenced by topographic position. Balds and burn scars had many species in common but the structure of the communities was very different, grasses being of lower importance on the burns. Communities with no current anthropogenic disturbances were undergoing woody plant succession and becoming more similar to the surrounding forest. The flora of the grassy balds appears to be partially an artifact of past human influences
10.2307/2996319|Achenes(seeds) of Bidens polylepis were dormant at maturity in autumn, and they came out of dormancy while buried in moist soil in a nonheated greenhouse during winter or at 5 or 15/6
10.2307/2484101|E. alsinoides has been reported to have Kranz leaf anatomy, but examination of its leaf veination, anatomy of fresh leaf material, and determination of its <sup>13</sup>C/<sup>12</sup>C ratio definitely proves that it is not a C<sub>4</sub> or Kranz species.
10.2307/2484218|Analysis of frond-surface flavonoids, primarily through HPLC, provided new insight into relationships within this group. Pigments revealed in analyses included chalcones, dihydrochalcones, flavanones, and an array of flavonols, mostly galangin and kaempferol or various of their methyl ethers. Intergradation among varieties at the diploid level contrasts sharply with strong sterility barriers between tetraploids or between diploids and tetraploids. Plants characterized chemically by the presence of flavanones are recommended to be ranked as a species (P. pallida (Weatherby) Alt and Grant), but P. triangularis var. maxonii Weatherby, var. semipallida J. T. Howell, and var. viscosa (D. C. Eaton) Weatherby are retained. The plants comprising P. triangularis var. triangularis will require taxonomic revision eventually because they are demonstrably complex, but until the complexities can be described and the holotype can be equated with one variant, no new names will be proposed. Green-backed plants, P. triangularis var. viridis Hoover, are mostly triploid hybrids, thus it is inappropriate for this name to be used in the varietal rank.
10.2307/2996689|Data from 49 8-year-old eastern white pine (Pinus strobus L.) branches were used to test a model which generates current shoot-length frequency distributions. The numbers and lengths of current shoots from parent shoots of all 1 cm length classes were determined. In the first simulation of each individual branch growth the annual elongation of the main axis for each year was specified for each branch; other population growth variables did not change from year to year. In simulated, compared to real, populations: total shoot numbers and lengths were similar (R
10.2307/2996917|Canopy structure following the 1938 hurricane and subsequent salvage logging was evaluated from 1942 aerial photographs for six gauged watersheds in the northern hardwoods forest at the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forrest, N.H. Three of the six watersheds that have not been cut since the hurricane were also evaluated from 1978 aerial photographs. A total of 1635 points were sampled on a grid system and categorized as high canopy, low canopy, exposed understory or open, as assessed through a stereoscope. Archival reports on logging and hurricane effects were used to supplement the photographic interpretations. In 1942, percent openness (area whithout canopy cover) ranged from 13% to 38%. From 1942 to 1978, percent openness decreased by a mean of 18%. The reduction in canopy cover due to the hurricane and salvage logging was apparently less than 20% in the gauged watersheds. However, damage was patchy: the most heavily damaged area (72% open) was that which was logged least before the hurricane, and watersheds with most evidence of young second growth prior to the hurricane were apparently the least damaged. Although effects were locally severe, large areas were apparently only lightly damaged in 1938. Recovery of the canopy in the heavily damaged area was rapid: in 1978, only 9% of the area was open, and canopy structure was similar to that in the gauged watersheds. Thus, 40 years of canopy development effectively masked the patchy effects of hurricane damage. Photographic evidence, together with other historical records, provides a better assessment of past disturbance to forest canopies than unquantified eyewitness accounts, and can be evaluated more rapidly and over larger areas than more intensive, field-based investigations.
10.2307/2996432|Phenotypic variability, documented for nine patches of Maianthemum canadense (Desf.) at three sites in central New Jersey, did not correspond to presumed environmental differences between sites or correlate with differences in ramet density More significant differences were found among patches than among sites for ramets/m
10.2307/2996496|Production of viable seed in the American Beech (Fagus grandifolia Ehrh.) was studied in 1968-1970 Nuts were collected from mid-October to mid-November from twenty-six locations in the United States. The seeds were tested for viability with tetrazolium chloride Viability ranged from 0 at many locations to 93 percent at Morgantown, West Virginia Several sites exhibited little cyclic variation in viable seed production while other sites demonstrated a good year, poor year seed production phenomenon
10.2307/2996646|A vegetation survey of the Wave Hill natural area, an urban woodland in the Bronx, NYC, was conducted in 1987. A permanent grid of 10 x 10 meter quadrats was established throughout the three ha natural area. Importance values were calculated in 238 quadrats. The most important arborescent species were Robinia pseudoacacia, Quercus rubra, and Acer platanoides. The most important non-arborescent species were Ampelopsis brevipedunculata, Lonicera maackii, and Alliaria petiolata. Four vegetation associations were recognized: oak-maple, black locust, black birch, and open areas. The high percentage (48%) and importance of non-native species is related to Wave Hill's urban location and land-use history. Ampelopsis brevipedunculata, the most important of the non-arborescent species, is a vine which appears to inhibit the growth of other species in open areas. A list of the 276 species of vascular plants identified is included in an appendix.
10.2307/2483494|In the cedar glades of central Tennessee, seeds of Cyperus inflexus Muhl. exhibit true dormancy at maturity in autumn. In nature dormancy is broken by low-temperature after-ripening (stratification) during the winter, and seeds germinate the following spring. After-ripened seeds are positively photoblastic and, therefore, require a light treatment for germination. The light requirement was not fulfilled by exposing dormant resting seeds to light during "duplicated" fall and/or winter conditions, and after-ripened seeds that did not receive a light treatment after removal to "duplicated" spring conditions germinated poorly or not at all. The absolute light requirement for germination after conditions become favorable for germination in the spring is interpreted to be of ecological significance in restricting C. inflexus to its shallow-soil habitat where there is little vegetation or litter to obstruct light from the soil surface.
10.2307/2484412|The observation of tips of protophloem fibers of Pelargonium zonale within adjacent parenchyma cells furnishes direct evidence for intrusive elongation of primary phloem fibers in stems. The penetration of the fiber tip through the parenchyma cell wall is documented by a photomicrograph.
10.2307/2996854|Previous investigations in Zephyranthes have indicated that species with styles that are long relative to the stamens are self-incompatible, whereas species with short styles are self-compatible. Species with styles as long as the stamens may be either self-compatible or self-incompatible. We investigated the breeding system of a long-styled species, Z. atamasco, by performing controlled pollinations and flower bagging treatments in a natural population. Flowers that were bagged, self-pollinated, or cross-pollinated showed 5%, 78%, and 92% fruit-set, respectively. Fruits from self-pollinations contained nearly as many seeds (19.4  9.8; mean  standard deviation) as those from cross-pollinations (24.7  14.0). Germination was slightly lower for seeds produced from self-pollinations (62.3  36.1%) as compared with seeds from cross-pollinations (77.7  22.9%). Self-and cross-pollinations resulted in fruits with significantly more seeds than open-pollinations (13.4  7.3). Unlike other long-styled species of Zephyranthes, Z. atamasco is fully self-compatible, and seeds produced from self-pollinations are similar in number and viability to seeds produced from cross-pollinations. Nevertheless, autogamous seed production is very low, presumably because the long styles project the receptive stigmatic surfaces well beyond the dehiscing anthers.
10.2307/2482389|1. Fresh weights of lupine and tomato leaves, stems, and roots were compared at the end of a four weeks culture period in the following situations: (a) intact seedlings, (b) seedlings with cotyledons removed after one week, and (c) seedlings with cotyledons removed after one week and supplied with 40 mg./l, ascorbic acid. 2. Determinations of ascorbic acid content were made of seedling organs at different periods. Analyses were also made to determine the ascorbic acid content of lupine and tomato seed. 3. Removal of the cotyledons resulted in decreased growth of lupine leaves and tomato roots, stems, and leaves when compared to the growth of similar organs on intact seedlings. Equivalent or better growth of all seedling organs of both lupine and tomato were obtained when the cotyledonless seedlings were supplied with ascorbic acid.The data are interpreted to indicate that much of the ascorbic acid required for seedling growth is supplied by the cotyledons. 4. Ascorbic acid content was higher in leaves than in the other seedling organs. It was found in similar concentrations in both lupine and tomato organs at the end of four weeks. A somewhat uniform level of ascorbic acid concentration present in organs showing sub-optimum growth. 5. The ascorbic acid content of lupine seed was considerably higher than that of tomato seed. Thus the synthesis of ascorbic acid proceeds earlier in the development of lupine than in the development of tomato.
10.2307/2484085|Pollen movement in dioecious individuals of Arisaema triphyllum is by the insect, Heterothrips arisaemae (Thysanoptera). Females within 1 meter of a male plant produce significantly more seeds than ones more distant. Within the 1 meter distance, pollinator movements were random. Increasing the density of male plants does not increase seed production but may reduce pollen movement. Female plants do not compete for pollen.
10.2307/2483859|The effects of stratification and exogenous gibberellic acid on seed germination in Ginkgo biloba were followed for a 12-week period. Most nonstratified seeds either remain dormant or decompose during this period, while nearly 100% of stratified seeds germinate within 7-10 weeks. Removal of the hard portion of the seed coat produces only a slight enhancement in germination of nonstratified seeds. Exogenous application of gibberellic acid to nonstratified seeds enhances germination to a level that approaches that of stratified seeds. Barley endosperm bioassay data of ethyl acetate extractable gibberellins from Ginkgo embryos indicate that stratified embryos contain approximately 100 times more GA
10.2307/2996105|Six collections of four species of Begonia ranging from moderately to markedly woody (for the genus) are analyzed for qualitative and quantitative wood features Begonia wood has vessels mostly solitary and oval or circular in outline, scalariform lateral wall pitting on vessels, tyloses in vessels, libriform fibers which are sometimes septate, vasicentric scanty axial parenchyma, tall and wide multiseriate rays (uniseriates absent) composed of erect cells (near-rayless in one collection), and storied structure These features match those of Datiscaceae closely; features which do not may be related to the distinctive habit of woody Begoniaceae: semisucculent canelike stems of finite duration produced by a rhizome As with similar stems of Piperaceae (which is not closely related to Begoniaceae), rays have erect cells predominantly or exclusively, rays alter little during ontogeny, and vessels have scalariform lateral wall pitting almost exclusively These three features seem related to paedomorphosis, as does the presence of occasional scalariform perforation plates in early secondary xylem of Begonia Quantitative features of Begonia wood mark all species as mesomorphic Wood mesomorphy of B parviflora increases with age of stem, suggesting greater transpiration from taller stems Increase in vessel diameter with age is common in many dicotyledon trees and shrubs, and may relate to ability of progressively larger root systems to tap greater water supplies, as well as to the tendency for a larger and more exposed crown to transpire more Some annual and short-lived perennial dicotyledons tend to have a progressive decrease in vessel diameter with age, which can be correlated with progressive drying of soil in the habitats of these species
10.2307/2995993|Species presence was recorded in 90 islands of soil on granite outcrops in southwestern Oklahoma Islands ranged in size from 0.002 to 22 4 m
10.2307/2484282|A unique phenotype of callus was derived from the culture of embryos of Hordeum distichum (a two-rowed barley) at the early differentiating level of embryogeny. Histological and kinetic cytological analyses suggested that this callus formation resulted from selective proliferation of epicotyl and underlying (mesocotyl) tissue without the concomitant cell enlargement noted in normal embryological development. The rate of cell proliferation or respiration was significantly reduced in the cultured embryos versus comparable stages of in vivo embryos. Electron microscopy revealed massive accumulation of starch and minimal rough endoplasmic reticulum in the callus. Callus proliferation stemmed from the arginine-rich histone-complemented mesocotyl, while senescence occurred in the lysine-rich mesenchymal cells of the scutellum and coleorhiza Hence, these early differentiating embryos may in a sense be programmed for epicotyl (mesocotyl) growth at the expense of the other tissues at the time they were inoculated into culture.
10.2307/2484177|Chromosome numbers of twenty-three populations of Koeleria cristata sampled from a number of habitats are reported. Patterns in number coincide with morphological features, moisture regime and geographic location. The tetraploid group (2n=28) occurs in the driest sites sampled which include habitats west of the Colorado Rockies typified by sagebrush grassland vegetation. The diploid plants (2n=14) comprise two groups which display some morphological dissimilarity, one from the high mountain areas of Colorado, New Mexico, and Mexico and the other from the plains and midwest prairie grasslands.
10.2307/2484645|The method of single-seed disc electrophoresis is designed for comparison of electrophoretic protein patterns from individual seeds. It facilitates precise assessment of intrapopulation variation of seed proteins and provides a means for the study of protein and isoenzyme polymorphism within populations. Three procedures for preparation of single-seed protein extracts for use in disc electrophoresis are described: A. Extraction of partially purified, water-soluble proteins (albumins and globulins) from maize; B. Extraction of partially purified, alcohol-soluble proteins (prolamins and gliadins) from wheat; C. Extraction of crude water-soluble proteins from sorghum.
10.2307/2484748|Fissidens aphelotaxifolius from British Columbia, western Washington and northern California is described and illustrated. Comparison is made with F. taxifolius Hedw.
10.2307/2996207|The spatial pattern of Aralia nudicaulis was determined by mapping all shoots in a 200 m
10.2307/2483915|The monotypic genus Perssoniella Herz., endemic evidently to a small area of New Caledonia, possesses a high incidence of distinctive criteria which give the genus a unique aspect. Among these are: complicate-bilobed leaves, whose dorsal lobes are slightly larger than the otherwise similar ventral lobes, both lobes margined with hyaline cells; absolute distichy, the vestigial ventral merophytes not forming even slime papillae; lateral-intercalary branching; exceedingly collenchymatous leaf cells; a hyalodermous cortex and thick-walled medulla; a coelocaule; a capsule with two cell layers, bearing distinctive thickenings reminiscent of those of the Schistochilaceae; a Cephalozia-type, filamentous protonema. These criteria suggest the genus must go into a special family, the Perssoniellaceae. A number of these criteria suggest an affinity to the family Schistochilaceae, nearly confined to the Antipodes. The two families are widely separated and the distinctions between them are cited in a key. The two families are considered to represent a separate suboider, the Perssoniellinae, whose most primitive members still retain large, quadrifid underleaves, whose axils may produce antheridia. Within this suborder, Perssoniella represents the most advanced element.
10.2307/2996188|Five species of fall-flowering, herbaceous perennial composites (Aster and Solidago spp.) growing in two habitats, a 10-15 year-old field and an adjacent woods in central Ohio, were compared. Analysis of the allocation patterns of these species, calculated both on the basis of total and above-ground weight, indicated significant differences in the allocation patterns of the old field versus woods species (habitat effect) and significant differences between the two genera (genus effect). The old field species, Solidago altissima, S. nemoralis, and Aster pilosus, allocated a significantly greater proportion of their biomass to flowering structures (18.6% vs. 7.9%) and stem (42.5% vs. 32.3%) than the woods species, S. caesia and A. lateriflorus. Both woods species produced rhizomes and allocated a significantly greater proportion of their total biomass to below-ground structures (roots and rhizomes) than the old field species (37.2% vs. 19.8%). In both habitats, the Solidago species allocated a greater proportion of their biomass to reproductive structures than the Aster species (17.3% vs. 9.6%); whereas, the Aster species consistently allocated proportionately more biomass to stem (44.5% vs. 34.3%). The influence of both habitat and morphological constraints on the observed differences in allocation schemes in these species are discussed.
10.2307/2482615|A unialgal, bacteria-free culture, tentatively identified as Chodatella subsalsa when grown in liquid culture, produced coenobia of the Scenedesmus type on 2.5% agar. Growth over a wide temperature range in various liquid media and at various intensities of illumination, including diurnal illumination, yielded mostly the unicell. At 22
10.2307/2996942|The vegetation of five Appalachian bogs (one site in Tennessee and four in West Virginia) was sampled using a point-quarter method. Rubus hispidus had the highest importance value in the Tennessee site and Vaccinium oxycoccus in the West Virginia sites. Major differences and similarities in vegetation are summarized, and comparisons are made with northern peat bogs, which are also dominated by dwarf shrubs. The dominant growth form in all the bogs was recumbent shrub, which was two to three times more important than other growth forms. Within the growth form, the importance values of R. hispidus (Rosaceae) and the evergreen recumbents (Ericaceae) were in versely related. Among sites, the importance value of R. hispidus was positively associated with soil nutrient status (r
10.2307/2996660|Seeds of Nemophila aphylla and Phacelia ranunculacea (Hydrophyllaceae) were dormant at maturity in May and required high summer temperatures to afterripen enough to germinate at autumn temperatures in autumn. Seeds buried in soil in a nontemperature-controlled greenhouse in May 1989 germinated to 14-64% in light and to 7-51% in darkness at simulated autumn (15/6, 20/10
10.2307/2483491|The name Psilocybe mutans is proposed for a new coprophilous basidiomycete obtained originally from a culture of cow dung from Idaho. The smaller, more delicate basidiocarps, smaller spores, paler and more ochraceous colors, and darker spore print distinguish it from Psilocybe coprophila (Bull. ex Fr.) Kumm. Different isolates of diploid mycelium have a similar appearance, but haploid strains show great variation in culture on malt extract agar. The pattern of tetrapolar sexuality is modified by high frequencies of secondary homothallism. A number of morphological variations occurring in basidiocarps produced in pure culture under different light conditions are described.
10.2307/2483866|The Spanish moss is usually regarded as a plant which reproduces by fragmentation of the plant. This study shows that it is possible to germinate seeds in the laboratory and that they are doubtless important in reproduction and distribution of the species. A study of developing seedlings shows that they produce short adventitious roots which serve as holdfasts for the seedlings.
10.2307/2996275|Epidermal features of spikelets and their subtending pedicels in thirteen species of Leersia were examined by scanning electron microscopy. Two species were examined by energy dispersive X ray analysis to detect silicon. Parts of the spikelet differ in presence or absence and development of epidermal features. Present on most parts of the spikelet were silica bodies, microhairs, prickle hairs, stomata, and small papillae. The lemma and palea were unique and highly specialized in having many siliceous triads (with high silicon content), each consisting of a central silica body flanked on each side by a large terminally-pored tubercle. The absence of siliceous triads in Oryza provides a supplementary character for distinguishing Leersia from Oryza. Twelve of the species were similar in basic epidermal features. Of three controversial species originally described under Oryza, L. perrieri and L. tisserantii have epidermal features like the other species and belong in Leersia, while a third, L. nematostachya, is unlike the other species in lemma features.
10.2307/2482392|1. The cytology of the tribe Tradescantieae, including chromosome number, morphology, and meiotic behavior, is reviewed. 2. Karyotypes not previously known for the tribe are reported for Tripogandra amplexicaulis, Callisia sp., and Tradescantia commelinoides, the latter has a new basic number (x = 7). 3. Chromosome number and morphology are also reported for Tripogandra pfianzii, Tradescantia occidentalis var. scopulorum, Stecreasea brevifolia, S. pallida, and S. tumida. 4. Meiotic behavior is reported for Tripogandra pflanzii, T. amplexicaulis, T. cumanensis, Callisia sp., Tradescantia micrantha, T. commelinoides, Setcreasea brevifolia and S. pallida.
10.2307/2483755|The capacity of dry soil colloids to adsorb volatile terpenes from the atmosphere suggests a mechanism for seedling inhibition by Salvia leucophylla. Gas chromatography showed diminishing terpene concentration in air exposed to soil. Fresh soil treated with volatiles from macerated Salvia leaves was shown to be highly toxic when assayed against Bromus rigidus. The soil was shown to retain its toxicity for several months. This suggests the following mechanism for patterning of annual herbs about Californian sage thickets: Toxins which are evolved by Salvia in hot weather are adsorbed by dry soil. Seedling growth is inhibited when adsorbed terpenes are dissolved in the cutin of seedlings in contact with the soil colloids. Other factors such as moisture conditions and animal activity may contribute to the observed patterning.
10.2307/2484396|Castilleja salsuginosa, C. revealii, C. aquariensis, C. kaibabensis and C. christii are described with discussions on relationships, with keys separating them from their nearest related species and with some phylogenetic speculations. All five species are illustrated and mapped.
10.2307/2995939|The pronounced anther dimorphism of Tinantia anomala is purported to reflect a pollen mimicry system that promotes cross pollination while reducing the amount of pollen taken by foraging insects. However, observations and experimental manipulations showed that: T. anomala is predominantly autogamous, pollen from all anthers is equally effective in fertilization, and there is little visitation by native insects that handle the flowers in a manner expected with a pollen mimicry syndrome. Although maximum seed number per fruit is six, seed set in natural populations averages about four. This low number is shown to be due to resource limitation rather than to automatic abortion of one of the carpels as suggested by Torrey (1859) for Tinantia anomala. Seed number per fruit declines steadily over the season producing a pattern that contrasts with that found in woodland perennial herbs. This difference appears to result from Tinantia's lack of dependence on pollinators for successful seed set, and its determinant annual habit.
10.2307/2997097|Three species are recognized in this initial taxonomic account of Poikilacanthus Lindau in Mexico. Poikilacanthus novogalicianus T. F. Daniel from west-central Mexico, is newly described. Poikilacanthus setiferus Standley & Steyermark is considered to be conspecific with the widespread species P. macranthus Lindau. A complete description is provided for P. capitatus (Leonard) Ramamoorthy, endemic to central Mexico, which was only recently transferred to the genus. Characters of the pollen are shown to be of prime importance in characterizing this genus of Justicieae.
10.2307/2484845|Certain plant species have persisted in denuded areas subjected to heavy metals (Zn, Cd, Pb, Cu) and SO
10.2307/2483902|Organography and vascular anatomy of the flower are described for 54 species of Erica (tribe Ericeae, subfamily Ericoideae, family Ericaceae). Flowers are pedicellate, sympetalous, tetramerous, pentacyclic, perfect, actinomorphic, and hypogynous. They are also almost always obdiplostemonous, often only with respect to the level of the stamen traces, and nectariferous. Bracts in most species, normally three on a pedicel, and sepals are grooved similar to the leaves. The stamens are normally dorsifixed, but in six species they are essentially basifixed. Visible appendages of the spur type, diverging from the filament (or occasionally from the connective) below or at its junction with the anther, are found in 38 species. The spurs vary from a few microns to longer than the anther and are frequently narrow but may be broad and plate-like. There is clear internal evidence of spurs in five additional species. Anthers may be included within the corolla, manifest at its mouth, or exserted wholly or in part beyond it. There are normally four carpels in the planes of the petals, but in five species they occur opposite the sepals, and in two there are eight carpels which alternate with both sepals and petals. Ovule number varies from six to more than 200 per carpel. In most species all floral organs except the carpels are supplied by single independent vascular traces. Each carpel basically receives three traces-a dorsal and two ventrals. In three species each sepal receives three traces subtended by three gaps. In several other species a sepal commonly, occasionally, or rarely receives two or three traces, the small short lateral bundles independent, blind, or branches of the median. The petal bundles occasionally do not branch, but more commonly each gives rise to two main laterals and the corolla is traversed by 12 rather than four bundles. In some species the laterals branch once or more times, while in others some of the laterals are very short or adjacent ones fuse; thus in these species the corolla may have from 8 to more than 30 strands. Although in most species the petal and petalad-stamen traces are independent of each other, in a few they have a common origin, separating tangentially usually close to the point of origin. The stamen bundles normally show a sharp inward and downward hook in the anther connective, but in some species the downward portion is lacking and in a few the inward bend is obliquely upward or only a slight tilt. The dorsal carpel bundles traverse the ovary wall and style. The ventral bundles (those of adjacent carpels are fused in some species) enter the placentae to supply the ovules and only in a few species do small strands continue a short way beyond this level. Several species have septal carpel bundles in addition to the dorsal and ventrals; they are usually small and short; in only a few species are they found in the ovary wall, and in only one do they traverse the style. The nectary often is supplied by small strands branching from the dorsal carpel bundles; these may be supplemented by branches from the septal bundles or by small independent traces. Rarely are the bundles derived from stamen traces. Clearly discernible batteries of characters could not be recognized to help clarify the existing artificial classifications within the genus. Certain trends of specialization appear to occur within the genus, however. The one-trace sepal would seem to have been derived from a three-trace three-gap one by gradual loss of the laterals. The basic stamen is thought to be included, dorsifixed, spurred, and to show a definite vascular hook. The exserted position of the anther, basifixed condition, spurlessness, and decrease or absence of the hook all appear to be derived, and they are, moreover, positively correlated. Erica shows a more complete independence of traces than found in most Ericaceae, but at the same time the sepal vasculature is more reduced than that found elsewhere in the family. The basic stamen type and the gynoecium are quite similar to those in other ericaceous genera.
10.2307/2995985|Morphological and phenological evidence indicates that Quercus inopina, a species of scrub oak described by Ashe in 1929 and endemic to south-central Florida, is, indeed, distinct from Quercus myrtifolia and should be recognized as a separate species.
10.2307/2482192|1. Histological investigations of grass embryos presented here lend support to previous suggestions: that the tribe Chlorideae should be removed from the subfamily Festucoideae and placed with the Panicoideae and that Beckmannia is not closely related to genera of the Chlorideae, even though it has long been treated as a member of that tribe. 2. It is here proposed that a more natural arrangement is achieved by placing Beckmannia in the tribe Agrostideae, since it seems to have close affinities with such genera as Phleum, Alopecurus, and Polypogon. 3. Previous histological and cytological studies tend to support this suggestion. Even on the basis of its gross morphological characters Beckmannia appears to be more closely allied to members of the Agrostideae, and especially to those mentioned above, than to genera of the Chlorideae.
10.2307/2483544|Nepenthes bellii from Mindanao Island in the Philippines is described as new.
10.2307/2482578|1. Systematic changes in nuclear and cell volumes in the shoot apex of Psilotum nudum are described. 2. Nuclear and cell volume are maximum in aerial shoot apices just emerging from beneath the soil. This is correlated with the frequent origin of octoploidy which results in meristem abortion. 3. Sporangia are initiated in that portion of the life cycle where cell and nuclear volume are at a minimum and cytological stability is greatest. 4. From this study it has been suggested : a) that there has been a trend toward larger size of the sporophyte in the Psilotaceae; b) that tetraploidy (4n  200) is the absolute end in the polyploid series for P. nudum; c) that there has not been a progressive phylogenetic reduction in cell and nuclear volume following origin of polyploidy in the Psilotaceae; and d) observed increases in cell and nuclear volumes in polyploids over their diploid predecessors may be due to an increase in the genetically inactive portion of the chromosome rather than to multiplication of the number of genes.
10.2307/2484283|Polien extracts proved to be an excellent source of antigenic proteins (3,000 to 6,000 g/ml extract) for use in this systematic serological investigation of the Corylaceae. Data obtained by using four serological techniques led to the detection of the following three serological groupings: (1) Alnus; (2) Betula; and (3) Carpinus, Corylus, and Ostrya. The three genera included in group three form a closely knit serological group. Alnus, while being distinct, is serologically more similar to Corylus than to the other two genera of the third group. Betula, while relatively the most isolated of the five genera, shows greater serological similarity to Alnus (group 1) than to Carpinus, Corylus, or Ostrya (group 3). Because of the amount of protein similarities detected among all five genera, the elevation of Carpinus, Corylus, and Ostrya or any other combination of genera to the rank of a separate family is not warranted. Rather, serological data support the maintenance of all five genera in the single family Corylaceae, and the designation of the three detected groupings as three distinct tribes within this single family.
10.2307/2560361|Zanichellia palustris L. is found in many locations along the Alaska Pacific coast from Cook Inlet to Juneau in ponds and on bare mud where the influence of fresh water is significant. It is often an associate of Potamogeton supp., Myriophyllum spicatum, and Hippurus tetraphylla. Successionally, Z. palustris decreases markedly as Carex lyngbyei increases and it is very sensitive to a substrate of Carex peat; also it appears to be sensitive to sedimentation and showed dramatic decreases in the vicinity of construction at Port Valdez from 1970-1974. This species is suggested for inclusion in baseline ecological studies because of its rapid response to environmental change.
10.2307/2997057|Resampling vegetation without using the same sampling methods and relo-catmg the exact sampling sites is not a valid method to measure vegetation changes tnrough time unless the variability in the plant distribution is considered. Resampling of the Saint John's Pond Preserve, Long Island, New York using three different methods showed variability in tree distribution and among differences between sample years. Comparison of variability in the Preserve forest distribution with differences between sample years was performed using the t-test which showed only the change through time for Betula lenta (percent density and dominance), Castanea dentata (percent frequency), and Fagus grandifolia (percent frequency) were significant at the 95% confidence level. When only one past sample is available, the Chi-square test can be used with the average of differences among multiple modem samples as the expected value and the average of the differences between the past sample and modem samples as the value to be tested.
10.2307/2996233|Cover of herb-layer species was estimated in flatwoods plots that received either no fire, winter fire, or winter fire followed by late summer fire. Cover and species richness were significantly higher in winter-burned areas compared to either unburned or summer-burned areas. Causes of these differences appeared to be related to seasonal differences in post-burn soil nutrient status.
10.2307/2482933|Spore production and structure in these genera were explored using slide culture and phase contrast microscopy. All species were found to bear blastospores. Spore cells were found to be budded, with protoplasmic connections being broken through deposition of wall material.
10.2307/2484594|Aloinella venezuelana is described as a new species from the Andes of Venezuela. It differs from other species of the genus by the leaves, which are both dorsally and ventrally papillose, and by the strongly papillose leaf filaments, which occasionally end in 2 or 3 subglobose or short-cylindric cells.
10.2307/2484068|A clone of Tradescantia paludosa growing for about 15 years in the greenhouse of The Ohio State University was subjected to cytological analyses. The greenhouse had been fumigated about twice every year, and the clone regularly fertilized and watered. In a sample of 1357 dividing pollen mother cells several abnormalities starting with diplotene stage were recorded. Some diplotene cells were found with breaks at the chromatid or chromosome level besides those involving both the chromosomes of a bivalent at roughly corresponding loci. Metaphase I cells were mostly normal with a few having sticky chromatin masses or asynapsis. Bridges (rarely accompanied with a fragment) or fragments (without bridges) were the main characteristics of aberrant anaphase I and anaphase II cells. Several bridges were inferred to be subchromatid in nature. The possible origin and meiotic consequences of these aberrations are discussed.
10.2307/2484366|This paper records the vascular flora of mature forests, young woods, kettle ponds, and clearings in Cunningham Park, and includes plants of adjacent parks on the Harbor Hill end moraine. Major habitat and a subjective measure of commonness are noted for each species. Phytosociological and phenological observations are made on the floral elements in the vegetation. Listed are 82 families, 205 genera, and 332 species. Families with the greatest number of species are (in order of decreasing numbers): Compositae, Rosaceae, Gramineae, Liliaceae, Cyperaceae, Polygonaceae, Polypodiaceae (sensu lato), and Ericaceae.
10.2307/2483687|An artificial intergeneric hybrid of Lychnis alba and Silene rotundifolia is described in which the growth habit and morphological appearance are in most respects intermediate between the parent plants. Analytical studies of the hybrid and parent plants include chromosomal analyses, observations of crystalline bodies (druses) in leaf clearings, and chromatography of anthocyanin and flavonoid pigments. Due to the anomolous inheritance of a single X chromosome, all of the hybrid plants are pistillate and both self-sterile and cross-sterile.
10.2307/2996016|Oncolites in a zone of the Whitewater Formation of the Richmondian Stage of the Cincinnatian Series (Ordovician) were found to have been produced primarily by the fossil cyanobacterial genus, Girvanella In tube diameter, this Girvanella corresponds most closely to measurements for G wetheredii The presence of simple and branched calcified tubes is suggestive of several "bluegreen algal" families, as discussed The paleoenvironment was no doubt shallow marine, probably either a shoal or low intertidal zone In this case Girvanella appears to have preferentially encrusted bryozoans or bryozoan fragments, as opposed to other types of allochems
10.2307/2996289|Studies of old-field succession in the eastern U.S., and especially on the Piedmont, have found Andropogon scoparius and A. virginicus to be important and often dominant components of old-field vegetation. Andropogon scoparius has, in the past, dominated most old fields between 15 and 60 years old in the vicinity of the Hutcheson Memorial Forest (HMF). However, a study of succession on permanent plots begun in 1958 shows that no field at HMF has been dominated by this species within the 26 years of observation. As an example, data on cover of dominant species, defined as those attaining at least 5% mean cover in any year, are presented for one field abandoned in 1960. The failure of A. scoparius to become important in these fields documents an important aspect of succession in the fields at HMF, and exemplifies the multiplicity of pathways that old-field succession may take.
10.2307/2483075|1. The growth in culture of excised root tips of different initial lengths (1 mm, 2 mm, 5 mm, 10 mm) from three different genetic lines was compared. Increasing amounts of mature tissue in the initial innocula were advantageous to growth in culture of two of the three genetic lines. In the third line there was little difference in growth of tips initially 5 or 10 mm in length, however, these grew distinctly more than those initially 1 or 2 mm in length. In this line also all tips were dead at the end of two weeks or earlier. This was also true for tips initially 1 mm long but not for the longer ones from the other two genetic lines. 2. The response of the three root lines to different concentrations of suerose was quite distinct. A concentration of 1% supported the best growth of one root line while this concentration supported little or no growth to one of the others. The third root line was intermediate in its response. 3. The response of the three root lines to different concentrations of IAA added to the medium was different for each line, but it was not possible to relate these responses to the different growth patterns obtained under standard conditions.
10.2307/2483230|Cyperus or Scirpus orbicephalus Beetle of Mexico is considered to be a species of Cyperus section Dichostylis because of its more or less distichous floral scales and the presence of a prophylloid empty scale at the base of each spikelet. A new combination, Cyperus orbicephalus (Beetle) T. Koyama & McVaugh, is proposed.
10.2307/2997184|The large floating bladderwort (Utricularia inflata Walt.) is reported for the first time from New York State. Pertinent literature and the distribution, morphology and cytology of the species are discussed, comparing it with closely related U. radiata Small, a taxon with which it has been historically confused. Recent discovery of the large bladderwort in Massachusetts is noted, suggesting the possibility that its distribution range may be expanding northward.
10.2307/2996251|Documented meiotic and mitotic chromosome numbers are reported for 51 taxa in 41 species of 10 genera of Cactaceae of southwestern United States and northern Mexico. Included are first counts for 21 taxa belonging to 18 species plus one interspecific triploid hybrid (Opuntia kleiniae x O. leptocaulis); and new counts for 4 previously reported species.
10.2307/2483551|Evidence is presented for a regular association between S. nemorosa and Pseudomonas extorquens. Scapania gametophytes in cultures inoculated with P. extorquens grew larger and developed to reproductive maturity well in advance of comparable axenic cultures of S. nemorosa. Similar stimulation occurring in nature would have considerable survival value for the liverwort. This type of association may be of general ecological significance.
10.2307/2997056|We measured leaf chlorophyll content from leaf discs of known area and mass for 820 leaves from eight trees of Sassafras albidum (Nutt.) Nees., growing along the floodplain of the Bronx River, New York. Sassafras displays leaves in a few discrete categories of form. Leaves with entire margins predominate at the proximal and distal nodes of shoots while lobed leaves are most common at the intermediate nodes. In regression analysis for individual trees, leaf nodal position accounted for 30-50% of the variance in chlorophyll content. Leaves of the intermediate nodes 6 through 11 (ca. 46% of all leaves) accounted for 59.3% of total leaf surface area and had the highest chlorophyll content per unit mass and per unit area. Leaf chlorophyll content was statistically significantly greater in shade leaves in 6 of the 8 trees on a per unit mass basis, and lower in shade leaves in 5 of the 8 trees on a per unit area basis. However, there were no significant differences in chlorophyll content with leaf shape in leaves from sun or shade positions. There were also no statistically significant differences in leaf chlorophyll content among trees. These results suggest that leaves of the intermediate nodes possess the greatest capacity to harvest photosynthetically active radiation.
10.2307/2483253|A synopsis to the species of Characeae as delimited in the manuscript of the forthcoming monograph on Characeaeof the world is presented. The bases for the author's revised classification issued in Taxon 11:7. 1962, are revealed, and 81 species are recognized. The illegitimate name Nitella gelatinosa is replaced by Nitella tasmanica, and the new subsp, gelatinifera is established
10.2307/2484606|The status and taxonomy of Sphaerita, Pseudosphaerita, Morella and Nucleophaga have been subjects of much controversy among mycologists and protozoologists primarily because of the conflicting reports in the literature relative to the presence of 1 or 2 flagella on the planospores, or the lack of them on the non-motile endospores. A review of these conflicting reports is given. Also, on the basis of the more pertinent present-day evidence Sphaerita is interpreted here in the Dangeardian (1933) sense as a genus of inoperculate, olpidioid, monocentric, holocarpic parasites of protozoa, Euglena, algae, and other microorganisms which produce uniflagellate planospores and resting sporangia. As such it is limited presently to a few species in which such planospores have been reported and is retained provisionally in the Chytridiales. Pseudosphaerita is regarded as a similar inoperculate genus which produces larger biflagellate heterocont planospores and resting sporangia and is retained temporarily in the Lagenidiales. It is suggested that Morella might be validated and emended to serve as a catchall for all similar parasites of the cytoplasms that produce non-motile aflagellate endospores in sporangia which have a general morula-like appearance, but this does not seem justifiable at present on the grounds that these species are so incompletely known that their identity is questionable. Furthermore, such a genus may prove to be synonymous with Nucleophaga, a genus of similar parasites which occur in the nucleus of similar hosts. Differences in site of occurrence is a questionable generic distinction, and these aflagellate parasites may all prove to be members of one genus, regardless of whether they occur in the cytoplasms or nucleus. Nucleophaga is regarded as a genus of doubtful affinity.
10.2307/2483869|Spores of Equisetum bogotense were cultured and the development of the gametophyte studied. These are invariably unisexual, and their gametangia have a unique morphology. Both archegonia and antheridia become greatly exserted, the former by extreme elongation of the neck cells, the latter by both division and elongation of the jacket cells. These gametangia appear to be the result of specialization of the type of gametangia seen in E. arvense and E. fluviatile.
10.2307/2996548|Twenty-year-old grafted trees of 28 clones of pitch pine, Pinus rigida, at New Lisbon, NJ are compared for differences in height, bole diameter, bole length to 10 cm top diameter, bole straightness, stem forking, epicormic sprouting, and cone serotiny Differences in all responses are significantly associated with clone (P < 0 0001) On the average, trees of New Jersey and Virginia origin are taller, have greater bole diameters and volumes, and are less inclined to stem forking than those from West Virginia, Pennsylvania, and New England Stem straightness, cone serotiny, and occurrences of epicormic sprouts vary by clone Mean bole volume is greatest in trees of clones native to southern New Jersey The authors conclude that the local area is an appropriate one to search for superior pitch pines for a state seed orchard
10.2307/2484804|During the late summer and fall of 1971 and 1972, the decomposition of oven-dried duckweeds returned to a small pond in northwestern Pennsylvania was monitored and samples analyzed for the loss of dry weight, organic weight, inorganic weight, magnesium, manganese, and sodium. A laboratory study was also performed to measure loss of the above at 10 C and 20 C. Results of these studies indicate that within one week at least 20% of the dry matter is lost and that over 50% of the magnesium, manganese, and sodium are lost within 3 weeks.
10.2307/2483513|Collections of mountain muhly, Muhlenbergia montana (Nutt.) Hitchc., from the Manitou Experimental Forest near Woodland Park, Colorado, were investigated as to possible biotic selection resulting from the grazing of domestic livestock. Plants were collected in 1963 from an exclosure and from an adjacent, moderately to heavily grazed area located on the same soil type and topography. Clonal materials were then compared in a transplant garden during the 1964 and 1965 growing seasons. Data analyses showed no significant differences in comparative growth and development between the grazed and ungrazed materials in either 1964 or 1965. Maximum height growth curves indicated similar periods of active growth, and the times of occurrence of first emergence of inflorescence and first anthems were essentially the same. No significant differences were shown in height, production, crown area, or number of reproductive culms. The implications of this lack of evidence for population differentiation are discussed
10.2307/2482168|1. The fern genus Elaphoglossum contains several hundred species, all of which have simple leaf blades. Discussed and described here is an exceptional Bolivian species, E. cardenasii sp. nov., the leaves of which are pedately-lobed. 2. Since leaf form appears to be capable of great plasticity from an evolutionary standpoint, the unique leaf structure of this species is not regarded as sufficient for generic distinction from Elaphoglossum. 3. This new fern adds another radical form of the types of modified leaves believed to have been derived from the basic Elaphoglossum leaf, which has a simle blade and free, pinnately arranged veins.
10.2307/2484524|Ascus development in homothallic and heterothallic isolates of Calonectria rigidiuscula was examined cytologically. The normal pattern of three divisions leading to eight ascospores/ascus was found in both. The homothallic isolates, all of which consistently produce a four-spored ascus, were shown to exhibit primary homothallism as each ascospore formed around a single nucleus. The heterothallic isolates displayed a random pattern of spore abortion resulting in from one to eight ascospores/ascus. No cytological evidence to explain the spore abortion in either group was obtained, but, whereas it appears genetically fixed in the homothallic types, the imprecise pattern displayed by heterothallic isolates is most likely based upon unsatisfied nutritional requirements. In both groups, the chiomosome number is n = 5. The consistency with which taxonomic descriptions of this species have cited four-spored asci probably reflects a tendency to collect and study the homothallic forms. A redescription of this species which would either include reference to both populations and correct the ascospore number, or separate the two groups into different species is indicated.
10.2307/2482157|1. Tacca involucrata is widespread in Africa. Odd in fruit and flower it attracts attention, but the collector is not likely to find the plant during its dormant period. 2. The species was found at three Nigerian stations, and the chromosomes investigated for plants from two of those stations: 2n = 30 at Abeokuta and at Jos; the chromosomes are small and without distinctive morphology No other chromosome reports are known for the Taccaceae, a small monocotyledonous family with puzzling affinities.
10.2307/2484159|The contribution of the ultrastructural, morphogenetic, ecological and paleoecological studies (presented in the papers of the 1979 A.I.B.S. symposium, cosponsored by the Amer. Bryol. and Lichenol. Soc. and the Torrey Bot. Club), to our understanding, not only of bryophyte biology but to the biology of "higher" plants, is summarized. Also, (1) some significant contributions from research of the past and (2) the potential in the future use of "lower" plants to advance our understanding of the biology of "higher" plants, are briefly noted.
10.2307/2997168|Asclepias perennis, a milkweed restricted to wetlands in the southeastern United States, possesses a suite of unusual characters that represent apparent adaptations for water dispersal of seeds: the fruits are oriented downward at maturity and contain seeds with an expanded seed coat that lack the usual coma of milkweeds. Using concurrent field and greenhouse seed flotation experiments, we compared seeds of A. perennis with seeds of a typical wind-dispersed milkweed, A. exaltata. Seeds of A. perennis floated significantly longer in both greenhouse and field experiments, with 15% and 35% still floating after 5 months; almost all seeds of A. exaltata sank within 2 weeks. A second greenhouse experiment conducted under three different soil-water regimes revealed significant differences in percent germination between species (A. perennis = 85.3  0.1%: mean  standard error; A. exaltata = 6.2  6.2%), and, to a lesser degree, among soil-water treatments within species. Seed germination tests revealed no significant change in viability for either species in any of the experiments conducted. Milkweed seeds can remain viable in water for long periods of time, but the remarkable ability of A. perennis to remam floating for more than 6 months may provide a "floating seed bank" that contributes to high levels of gene flow among populations of this floodplain species.
10.2307/2996118|Root biomass distribution and root growth into traps buried in the soil have been studied in the three dominant grasses (Stipa speciosa Trin. et Rupr., S. humilis Vahl and Poa ligularis Nees ap. Steud.) of extensive plant communities of the Patagonian arid steppe. Root biomass decreases sharply from center to the periphery of young and old plants of the three species. As a result of this attenuation, low root density pockets, corresponding to bare soil patches between tussocks, are found in the upper soil layer. At these pockets, water from small rains would be underutilized. Comparison of root biomass and spring root growth into traps supports the conclusion that, in a growing season, the three grasses were able to rebuild the roots only to the size previous to ablation provoked by trap installation. It is, therefore, postulated that lack of full colonization of low density root pockets by established root systems is determined by morphological constraints that limit their size and geometry. Potentiality seems to exist for the establishment of new individuals that would contribute to the formation of a continuous layer of uniform root density in the upper soil. Better use would thus be made of small rains, amounting to 57% of total rainfall events.
10.2307/2484778|A linear, constant-coefficient compartment model was constructed to simulate temporal changes in the areal extent of major forest types in the North Carolina Piedmont. Model structure and transfer coefficients were derived from published ecological literature and available USDA Forest Service statistical summaries The results show the importance of old-field abandonment to the perpetuation of extensive loblolly pine (Pinus taeda) forests in the Piedmont. Should abandonment cease, post-harvest treatment and planting of loblolly pine would have to be increased considerably over current levels to maintain an extensive loblolly pine forest type. Extrapolation of current rates of change forward 250 years would result in a sizeable increase in the area of loblolly pine and loblolly pine-oak types, a slight increase in oak-hickory, a sizeable decline in shortleaf and Virginia pine (Pinus echinata, Pinus virginiana, resp.) types and a slight decline for other mixed pine-hardwood and lowland and dry upland hardwood categories compared to current conditions. The technique can be a useful tool either to assess some long-term effects of present management and use trends or to suggest strategies necessary to obtain a desired regional mixture of forest types.
10.2307/2484192|A solution to the problem of metal weights adhering to specimens because of excess glue, causing damage when removed, is suggested. "Con-tact paper" wrapping of the weights is the method.
10.2307/2996733|We provide quantitative data to support the recognition of Asimina triloba as a plant growing without cultivation on Staten Island, New York. Here, at its northern limit of distribution along the Atlantic Coast, it is an understory dominant in a mixed swamp forest stand in which the canopy is dominated by Salix nigra, Ulmus americana, and Acer rubrum. We also provide the first quantitative data for the occurrence of a forest dominated by Celtis occidentalis in New York State. It is a secondary forest growing on a site that was cleared and partially paved with cement and asphalt in the 1930's. Important associates of Celtis are Morus alba (not reproducing at the site), Prunus serotina, Sassafras albidum, and Quercus palustris. All of these taxa are common constituents of secondary forests in the vicinity of New York City. It is likely that lower frost frequencies associated with coastal locations play an important role in permitting the development of populations of these two taxa. In addition, this southernmost location in New York State may provide Asimina, a plant whose range is centered far to the south, with its minimum necessary levels of annual warmth.
10.2307/2484850|Growing season changes in nutrient element concentrations in forest herbs may affect studies of above-ground nutrient mass. We attempted to determine if a stable period existed during which concentration variation would be minimized. All herbaceous vegetation in 10 randomly located plots within each of seven stands was clipped at ground level and analyzed biweekly from mid-June through late July, and once again in mid-August. For elements N, P, K, Ca, and Mg there were generally significant differences in concentrations from mid-June through late July. However, only Ca concentration changed significantly from late July to mid-August. August, a pre-senescence period of minimal above-ground nutrient change, is an appropriate time to sample herbs for nutrient content.
10.2307/2484920|To better understand how the germination of Rumex crispus L. seeds is controlled in nature, we investigated: (1) the timing of seed dispersal, (2) germination requirements of seeds collected from plants in the field at various times between seed maturity in early summer and natural seed dispersal in late winter and (3) the effect of stratification in light and darkness on germination in light and darkness at various alternating temperatures. Freshly matured seeds germinated to high percentages in light at 20/10, 30/15, and 35/20 C and to low percentages at 15/6 C; seeds did not germinate in darkness at any temperature tested. Stratification of seeds in light fulfilled the light requirement for seeds incubated in darkness, whereas stratification in darkness did not overcome the light requirement. Stratification in light or darkness caused a higher percentage of the seeds to germinate in light at 15/6 C. Some ecological implications of these results are discussed.
10.2307/2482919|1. A wild-type isolate of Penicillium chrysogenum and three variant strains derived from this isolate were examined cytologically. 2. Dormant conidia were found to be uniformly uninucleate. 3. Germination of conidia was studied only in the case of strain Wis. Q176. From observations made it is concluded that division of the spore nucleus may precede, accompany, or follow the emergence of a germ tube. Most sporelings eighteen hours old were still lacking in septa, and in such sporelings the germ tubes were richly provided with nuclei. 4. In all colonies where satisfactory staining was obtained, mycelial cells were found to be typically plurinucleate; however, the number of nuclei varied considerably, being highest at the apex of growing hyphae. 5 Sterigmata, metulae, and rami (?) appear to be basically uninucleate structures, although sterigmata with two nuclei are common on conidiophores actively forming spores. The binucleate condition in the sterigma results from nuclear division, and it is temporary, the original uninucleate state being restored when one of the daughter nuclei passes into a developing spore. Metulae and ramus cells with two nuclei occur occasionally in mature conidiophores, and an explanation for this departure from the basic nuclear pattern is suggested. Cells of the conidiophore below the rami commonly have two, three, or more nuclei. 6. The metulae on one ramus develop in sequence and the phialides on one metula also develop successively. As each new sporiferous element is formed, a mitotic division occurs, rendering the mother cell temporarily binucleate. 7. In two peculiar "colony types" in strain Wis. Q176 efforts to differentiate the nuclei in the spore-bearing structures were unsuccessful.
10.2307/2484763|Two areas of origin are respectively proposed for the subgenera Papeda and Citrus, tropical and subtropical. A polyphyletic origin of cultivated Citrus is postulated for citron, pummelo and mandarin. Three complexes were formed: the citron with the limes, lemons and rough lemons; the shaddock, primarily with grapefruit; and the mandarin with the sweet and sour oranges. A brief historical and cultural review is presented. Centers of origin for the base species are advanced on the basis of their morphology, genetics and biochemistry.
10.2307/2483443|The anatomy of the floats of Utricularia inflexa Forsk. var. inflexa Taylor (Syn. Utricularia stellaris var. inflexa) shows that they are modified branches. Major part of their cortex is occupied by large air spaces. The presence of endodermis and cambium could not be determined. The vascular bundles are mostly restricted on the lower (abaxial) side of the float showing dorsiventrality in their structure. Two young floats, which presumably had endogenous origin, were situated in the cortical air chambers of a mature float.
10.2307/2996127|Species composition, size-frequency distributions, and environment-vegetation relationships were studied in Goll Woods, the last known uncut remnant of the Black Swamp forest of northwestern Ohio. Relatively well-drained fossil beach ridges were dominated by sugar maple (Acer saccharum) and beech (Fagus grandifolia), with sycamore (Platanus occidentalis) and white oak (Quercus alba) also common; poorly drained flats were occupied by silver maple (A. saccharinum), American elm (Ulmus americana), bur oak (Q. macrocarpa), and ashes (Fraxinus spp.). Transitional sites had higher abundances of basswood (Tilia americana), ironwood (Carpinus caroliniana), red oak (Q. borealis), and red maple (A. rubrum). Regressions of axis scores from Detrended Correspondence Analysis indicated relationships among species composition and soil texture. Bur oak, white oak, sycamore, chinquapin oak (Q. muehlenbergii), and cottonwood (Populus deltoides) had emergent individuals over 1 m dbh but lacked stems <40 cm dbh. We review the historical information on disturbance patterns and hypothesize that these large individuals established in one-or-more large disturbances >300 yr ago.
10.2307/2484336|Factor analysis was used to examine Oklahoma shrub distribution patterns, and the general patterns elucidated were compared with those for trees. Six oblique factors were extracted from a data matrix which included 112 variables (93 shrub distributions and 19 soil and climatic variables). Each of the resulting factors identified a group of shrub species and associated environmental variables with similar distribution patterns. Three of these general patterns (i.e., eastern, southeastern, and western distributions) corresponded closely with general factors previously extracted from data on tree distributions for the state. Shrubs exhibited geographically more restricted distributions than those found for trees. Soil variables were more closely associated with species patterns than precipitation or temperature variables.
10.2307/2484179|The assumption that the oogonia of Nitella and Tolypella may have the same anatomical structure was accepted by early workers without hesitation. Since both genera are classified in the tribe Nitelleae, it was expected that the presence of 3 sterile oogonial cells, characteristic of the oogonium of Nitella, was also the case in Tolypella. Daily's finding (1968) that an undivided basal plate characterized the oospores of the section Acutifolia of Tolypella, and that a doubly or triply segmented basal plate is a significant feature of the oospores of the section Obtusifolia of the genus, although indicating the presence of two distinct oogonial structures, was not analyzed developmentally. The current study, which is the rectification of the report presented by Sawa (1968), offers anatomical confirmation of Daily's finding but takes issue with the findings of two recent papers (Kausik and Bhattacharya 1971, Maier 1973). The phylogenetic position of the genus Tolypella is considered on the basis of the structure of the oogonium and other morphological attributes.
10.2307/2996751|Partial waves, a more subtle and less-organized version of the classic Abies-type waves, are described for old-growth Nothofagus forests in the interior of Tierra del Fuego, Argentina. Partial waves exhibit the same downwind progression of mortality, with gradients of tree size and age noticeable for > 180 m, but unlike Abies waves and waves in some coastal stands of Nothofagus, partial waves appear to be the result of localized, stochastic disturbances, and they do not develop the highly organized, cyclical pattern of full waves. Partial waves may expand episodically in response to periodic, southwesterly windstorms, and do not appear to be related to directional, stress-related dieback.
10.2307/2483093|1. A significant block of mitosis at late prophase occurs within root tips of T. sessile L. when exposed to concentrations of .1M and .05M boric acid for periods of time up to 96 hours. Continued exposure to these concentrations of boric acid also results in a decrease in the total number of dividing nuclei. 2. A concentration of .1M potassium dihydrogen phosphate produces a significant metaphase block within root tips of T. sessile L. when exposed for 24 and 48 hours. A concentration of .05M potassium dihydrogen phosphate produces a milder block after 24, 48, and 72 hours. A concentration of .05M potassium dihydrogen phosphate causes a marked decrease in the total percentage of dividing nuclei. 3. Concentrations of .012M-.003M potassium acid phthalate produce a mild metaphase block within root tips of T. sessile L. after exposure for 12 hours. Concentrations of .0015M and .00075M potassium acid phthalate slow down the processes of mitosis to a point where almost no dividing nuclei are seen after 12 hours.
10.2307/2996204|Anthesis of Argemone aurantiaca occurs over three consecutive days with flowers opening each morning and closing in the late afternoon This stigma is receptive in early morning first-day flowers and by late morning the numerous stamens begin to dehisce, releasing large quantities of pollen By the end of the second day anthers have shriveled and the stigma has become non-receptive During the third day the petals and stamens abscise Hymenoptera (Dialictus and Halictus) and Coleoptera (Euphoria and Lytta) were the most abundant and effective pollinators Hymenoptera are effective cross-pollinators while Coleoptera facilitate self-pollination The overall floral architecture as well as the floral behavior are adaptations which facilitate the pollination of Argemone by beetles
10.2307/2996465|Snow mold and VA mycorrhizal fungal activity were monitored along a slope containing planted Artemisia tridentata in 1982 through 1985, high precipitation years, in a temperate semi-desert shrubland in southwestern Wyoming. Despite improved soil moisture down the slope in 1984, a moderately wet year with especially high snowfall, shrub production and survival declined down the slope. This decline occurred in association with reduced mycorrhizal reproduction and a high incidence of snow mold down the slope. In all other years, increased production and survival of shrubs corresponded with increased soil moisture. We suggest that abiotic variables alone are not adequate for predicting favorable growth conditions for plants in this habitat, and that the activity of fungal symbionts might be important.
10.2307/2483198|Within a group of young trees designated as Fraxinus americana, it was possible to separate the tetraploids from the diploids on a morphological basis. The tetraploids had rounded, usually reniform lateral buds and the upper margin of the leaf scar was truncate or nearly so. Trees designated as hexaploids also had these characteristics, and in addition were pubescent in leaf and twig. Diploid trees were typical white ash, characterized by leaf scars that were deeply notched at the top, and triangular buds positioned in the notches. The polyploids are assigned to F. biltmoreana and are regarded as constituting a separate species represented by at least tetraploids and hexaploids.
10.2307/2997070|The allelopathic mechanism associated with the straw of Avena fatua was investigated by bioassay and greenhouse experiments. Water leachates from the straw contained a group of phytotoxic phenolic compounds. These compounds were inhibitory to germination and seedling growth of other plant species in soil and are thought to be part of the toxic complex which is active in the field. We conclude that the phytotoxins are leached from the straw by the first rains of the growing season and are carried from the straw to the soil where they inhibit species with susceptible seeds or seedlings, e.g., Centaurea melitensis and Silybum marianum.
10.2307/2483330|Field and greenhouse studies were made of the life cycle and distribution within its habitat of Talinum calcaricum Ware (Portulacaceae). This succulent perennial herb is endemic to limestone cedar glades of middle Tennessee and northern Alabama, where it is confined to a shallow soil ecotone between bare rock and grass-dominated vegetation on soil deeper than 10 cm. Strongly drought resistant, it grows through the driest, hottest part of the summer, but major events of its life cycle are timed so that environmental conditions during critical periods of the cycle are near optimum for growth, survival, and reproduction. Distribution and abundance of Talinum within the glade habitat, and thus its role in the vegetation, are limited by soil depth, severe drought, and interspecific competition.
10.2307/2484509|The distribution of tree species in Cunningham Park, Queens County, on western Long Island, was studied by the point-centered quarter method. Trees and saplings were sampled in three topographic habitats; morainal uplands, moist flatlands adjacent to the moraine, and well-drained non-morainal uplands. Morainal uplands and adjacent flatlands are dominated by Quercus borealis var. maxima (red oak), Liriodendron tulipifera (tuliptree), Cornus florida (flowering dogwood), Acer rubrum (red maple), Prunus serotina (wild black cherry), Quercus velutina (black oak), and Betula lenta (black birch) with other species of lesser importance. Undisturbed forests on the non-morainal uplands are dominated by Quercus velutina, Betula lenta, Cornus florida, and Acer rubrum. Since morainal uplands and moist flatlands characterize the topography of the park, the red oak-tulip-tree-dogwood community typifies the vegetation. Forests of similar composition on similar soil have been described for the nearby Palisades of New Jersey and for Connecticut.
10.2307/2996488|In the Andes of south-central Chile the undergrowth of mid-elevation Nothofagus forests is dominated by the typically 2-7 m tall bamboo Chusquea culeou while that of the subalpine Nothofagus forests is dominated by 1-3 m tall C. tenuiflora Growth rates of these two species are compared, and their influences on the forest microenvironment and tree regeneration are analyzed. In both altitudinal zones Chusquea spp significantly inhibit the establishment and development of seedlings of the dominant tree species. In the dense, more species-rich forests of mid-elevations, regeneration of the dominant Nothofagus spp. is dependent on stand-devastating disturbances In the subalpine forests the Nothofagus spp. regenerate following massive disturbances as well as beneath canopy gaps created by the fall of a single large tree or a small group of trees. Beneath these canopy gaps snow accumulation is greater and, thus, persists later into spring; similarly, the frequency of summer frosts is greater beneath gaps Under this less favorable microclimate the relative dominance of bamboos is reduced and patchy regeneration of Nothofagus spp results Dependence of the competitively inferior Nothofagus spp. on disturbances of varying scales for their regeneration is consistent with a non-equilibrium view of coexistence of plant species
10.2307/2482670|1. Synchytrium cinnamomeum, a parasite of Ranunculus species, which was formerly believed to be a short-cycled member of the subgenus Pycnochytrium, is long-cycled and develops prosori, sori, sporangia, and resting spores. Accordingly, it is transferred temporarily to the subgenus Microsynchtrium, pending discovery of its method of resting spore germination. 2. Another and unidentified species occurs on Ranunculus sp. in Oregon and resembles S. cinnamomeum in several respects.
10.2307/2483837|A heat stable substance in a water extract of tomato fruit inhibited the growth of Agrobacterium tumefaciens. The inhibitor was bacteriostatic and induced morphological aberrations in exposed cells. The inhibitor was not identified but results indicated it was not tomatine. A second substance, which inhibited gas formation by species of enteric bacteria, was found in water extracts of tobacco tissue. Physical and biological properties of the inhibitor suggested it was nitrate, a substance known to inhibit the hydrogenlyase system of the Enterobacteriaceae.
10.2307/2996695|Silica bodies in the outer cells of the achene epidermis in 17 species of Eriophorum and nine species of Scirpus, some of which have been placed in Eriophorum, were revealed by sonication and/or acetolysis and examined by scanning electron microscopy. A silica body consists of a basal platform, one or more large elevated protuberances, and sometimes smaller satellite protuberances. Individual species differ in the number of protuberances, the presence/absence of satellites, the texture of the platform, and the occurrence of nodules on the larger protuberances. These features, combined with achene shape and characteristics of the anticlinal walls of the epidermal cells (undulate vs. straight, thick vs. thin, buttressed or not), are expressed in a unique combination for each species. Scirpus hudsonianus was examined for geographic and developmental variation in the microstructure of its silica bodies. All samples had similar bodies, characterized by conspicuous nodules on the protuberances and a smooth platform. Nodules were much less evident in immature achenes. Achene epidermal microstructure supports the placement of S. hudsonianus in Scirpus sect. Baeothryon and S. maximowiczii in Scirpus sect. Trichophorum. Achenes of S. hudsonianus and Scirpus cespitosus share similar silica bodies and other achene features. Achene microstructure of a late-Pleistocene fossil proved to be the same as that in Scirpus hudsonianus. Our studies establish the feasibility of identifying all species of Eriophorum by utilizing microstructural characteristics of isolated achenes.
10.2307/2483251|The plasmodia of Physarum flavicomum and Physarella oblonga and the myxamoebae of Badhamia curtisii were grown continuously in pure culture on both liquid and agar media in the absence of bacteria or yeast cells. Complete development of the entire life cycles was not obtained, but plasmodia could be induced to form in populations of B. curtisii myxamoebae. The appearance of sporangia of Physarum compressum as a contaminant in a P. flavicomum culture indicates that P. compressum may be capable of completing its life cycle in pure culture on a single medium.
10.2307/2996543|Mature forests on `Camels Hump mountain in northern Vermont were studied at 60 m intervals along a transect from 550 m-1 160 m elevation in 1965, 1979 and 1983 Significant declines in density (live trees  2 cm) were observed in sugar maple, beech, striped maple, mountain maple and red spruce. Density of trees in the hardwood (550-730 m) and transitional forests (extending from 730-850 m) declined significantly, while the montane zone (850-1160 m) remained relatively constant with respect to density Significant biomass declines occurred in red spruce, balsam fir and mountain maple Total above ground tree biomass estimates declined significantly in the montane forest (above 850 m) since 1965 Reproduction, as determined by net changes in the estimated numbers of stems < 2 cm dbh, showed significant losses for red spruce, mountain maple, sugar maple and beech while striped maple increased over the study period
10.2307/2996817|Two stands of an old-growth cove forest, originally sampled ca. 1935, were resampled to determine compositional dynamics of the forest. Potential effects of the Castanea dentata blight and of anthropogenic disturbances on forest composition were evaluated. Total basal area increased in both stands. One stand, in which C. dentata was a major pre-blight component, had higher basal area of Acer saccharum and Tsuga canadensis than 50 years ago. These increases were responses to the loss of C. dentata. Although C. dentata was a relatively minor component of the other stand, compositional changes had occurred. Basal area of A. saccharum and Halesia carolina increased in the stand in response to canopy gaps created by the loss of C. dentata ca. 1930 and by individual tree mortality of other canopy species within the last 50 years. Evidence of compositional shifts or forest decline from anthropogenic effects was not detected.
10.2307/2484549|Preliminary studies in Lophopogon tridentatus (Roxb.) Hack. (Andropogoneae, Poaceae), disclose three different chromosome numbers in plants from three different localities: 2n = 8, 2n = 10, and 2n = 18. All localities are in India. Voucher specimens are deposited at the University of Mysore.
10.2307/2482377|Streptomyces coelicolor is able to utilize ammonium aspartate, asparagine, urea, casamino acids, and nitrate as sources of nitrogen, but maximum growth is obtained in a poorly buffered glucose medium only with the first two materials named. Growth inhibition in a glucose-nitrate medium results from the interaction of two metabolic systems, glucose dissimilation and nitrate reduction. At the Iow pH accompanying the formation of organic acids from glucose the nitrite produced from nitrate is toxic. The symptoms of toxicity are removed, and growth is normal, if the pPI of such a medium is maintained at 6.8 or higher. In media having as carbon source glycerol or mannitol, metabolic acids do not accumulate and growth on nitrate is satisfactory. Yeast extract accelerates growth on nitrate media, possibly by provision of compounds essential for the reduction of nitrate. The time course of growth on a neutralized glucose-nitrate medium with yeast extract includes a long lag period which may represent the time necessary either for the formation of adaptive enzymes or for the accumulation of oxidizable metabolites needed for the reduction of nitrate
10.2307/2996693|It is generally very difficult to determine whether the coexistence of two tree species in a forest is due to a difference in the species' niches or due to disturbance factors which prevent one species from driving the other to extinction. Thus, few studies have demonstrated that niche differences among tree species affect the composition of forest stands. Here an indirect approach is used in which the presence of niche interactions are deduced from the pattern of co-occurrence of species groups. Data from 14 regional vegetation studies were examined to determine whether oak subgenera co-occur more frequently than would be expected if species were randomly distributed among stands. Twelve of the 14 studies showed statistically significant departures from the expected frequency of same subgeneric pairs. The tendency for co-occurring oak species to be in different subgenera is apparently not due to the formation of particular coevolved pairs since in most regions each species is commonly found with several species in other subgenera. These results imply that niche differences are greater between species in different subgenera than between species in the same subgenus, and thus that niche relations play a role in the organization of forests with oaks. The pattern of co-occurrence is apparently not caused by reduced competition for light, water, or mineral nutrients between adults of different subgenera. The high frequency of cross-subgenera pairs may result from differences in the regeneration niches (sensu Grubb 1977) of species in contrasting subgenera. In particular, mast fruiting tends to be well synchronized for species within a subgenus but poorly synchronized between subgenera. Such asynchrony could facilitate coexistence of species in different subgenera. Seed predator behavior may also contribute to the observed pattern of co-occurrence. Differences in water relations, stature, and degree of deciduousness also appear to affect the co-occurrence of oak species.
10.2307/2483497|Tissue arrangement for mycorrhizal and non-mycorrhizal roots was consistent for non-woody roots of Acer rubrum L. seedlings grown in various natural soils, sterilized soils, and from different seed sources. Extensive amounts of the endotrophic fungus resulted from multiple epidermal penetrations, subsequent longitudinal, primarily acropetal, growth, and slight horizontal growth. Hyphae were limited to the epidermis and cortical parenchyma. Arbuscles and vesicles were mainly found in the middle layer of the cortical parenchyma with digested hyphae most abundant in the innermost layer of the cortical parenchyma.
10.2307/2484064|The type specimens of species described by Dr. J. B. Cleland are described in detail, with notes on synonymy and phylogenetic relationships. The species discussed are Clavaria australiana, C. complanata, C. corallino-rosacea, C. ochraceo-salmonicolor, C. sinapicolor, C. subrugosa, and C. vinaceo-cervina. Holotype specimens are cited for two species, and lecto-type specimens are selected for the other five, with appropriate isolecto-types and paratypes cited. Ramaria australiana (Clel.) Pet., and Aphelaria complanata (Clel.) Pet. are proposed as new combinations.
10.2307/2484400|Field observations on the ecological life cycle of Helenium amarum (Raf.) H. Rock were made over a 3-year period in a disturbed, rocky habitat in Wilson County in north-central Tennessee, and laboratory experiments were conducted on the seed stage of the life cycle. In central Tennessee seeds are matured and dispersed from July to November. Freshly-matured seeds are nondormant and will germinate over a wide range of temperatures in light In the field low winter temperatures prevent germination of late-dispersed seeds but do not cause them to enter dormancy. There are two distinct germination seasons, summer-autumn and late winter-early spring. Regardless of the germination date mortality during the seedling and rosette stages of the life cycle is high, but some plants from seeds that germinate in each season survive to reproduce. Plants from seeds that germinate in summer or autumn overwinter as rosettes and complete their life cycle the following summer or autumn, and thus behave as winter annuals. Plants from seeds that germinate in late winter or early spring also complete their life cycle the following summer or autumn, and thus behave as summer annuals.
10.2307/2484399|Holosteum umbellatum L. is a Eurasian winter annual that invades bare, disturbed habitats in various parts of eastern, midwestern and northwestern United States. In this study its ecological life cycle was investigated in central Tennessee and Kentucky; particular emphasis was placed on the seed stage Germination occurs in October and November after germination of most species of winter annuals is completed, the peak of flowering is around mid-March, and seeds ripen and are dispersed from mid-March to late-April. Seeds are innately dormant at maturity and at time of dispersal but after-ripen between April and October. During the after-ripening period seeds gain the ability to germinate at autumn but not at summer temperatures, and with the arrival of lower temperatures in autumn, seeds germinate under suitable moisture conditions.
10.2307/2483970|Old field succession on the inner coastal plain of New Jersey was investigated in one- to two-year-old fields and through the forest stage. The number of introduced species decreases through older age-groups. The number of native species shows a reciprocal increase through older age-groups. One- to two-year-old fields are dominated by Conyza canadensis and Anthemis arvensis. Ten- to 15-year-old fields are dominated by Solidago juncea and Andropogon virginicus. Rubus spp. are the most important shrubs in the 10- to 15-year-old fields. The 25- to 40-year-old fields are young forests, dominated by Liquidambar styraciflua and Acer rubrum. The forest stands are dominated by Fagus grandifolia, Liriodendron tulipifera and Acer rubrum. The area will probably support a mixed beech-oak forest given a suitable period of time for stabilization. Selected soil characteristics including pH, organic matter, magnesium, phosphorous calcium, and potassium content differed among successional age-groups. These differences are almost certainly the result of agricultural practices on the inner coastal plain. A considerable intei relationship among land use history, soil parameters, and old field succession exists on the area.
10.2307/2483733|This is the second in a series of studies on early Devonian plants from northern Maine. The fossil described here comes from the Trout Valley Formation and is probably of Lower Devonian age. Kaulangiophyton akantha, n. gen., n. sp. was a plant that attained a height of several decimeters; the axes are 5 to 9 mm in diameter with trailing and up-right portions that divided by numerous wide dichotomies or H-branches; they bore sparsely distributed, stout spines of about 2 mm in length. The upright axes included occasional fertile zones with stalks, each of which bore a terminal sporangium.
10.2307/2482548|Eight new chromosome numbers and confirmation of one previously reported number in Potamogeton are given. A tabular listing of voucher specimens, drawings of the chromosomes, materials and methods, and a brief discussion are included.
10.2307/2996463|Pollen and seed viability tests were conducted with the native Celastrus scandens L and the naturalized C orbiculatus Thunb Mean pollen viability from three Connecticut sites was 48% for C scandens and 67% for C orbiculatus. At a fourth site a group of plants first identified as C orbiculatus had two different types of pollen (large, viable and small, nonviable) within single flowers. The possibility that these plants are interspecific hybrids is being investigated. Seed germination was 27% for C scandens and 71% for C orbiculatus In addition to high pollen and seed viability, bird, mammal and human dispersal are considered important in the rapid expansion of C orbiculatus populations in Connecticut and elsewhere
10.2307/2483648|Cytological study of adventitious roots from bulbs of Puschkinia libanotica revealed that 28.1% of the plants possess 1-5 supernumerary chromosomes. The chromosome number was found to be constant throughout the somatic tissues of the plants. The supernumerary chromosomes are heterochromatic, and the number of positively heteropycnotic bodies in somatic interphase nuclei is generally equal to the number of supernumerary chromosomes. If two or more supernumeraries are present, there may be fusion of the heteropycnotic bodies. The supernumerary chromosomes are unstable during microsporogenesis. If one supernumerary chromosome is present in the cells of a plant, it may undergo either a reductional or equational first meiotic division. During both the first and second meiotic divisions precession of the supernumerary chromosome may occur in some cells; in other cells of the same anther lagging may occur. Lagging frequently results in chromosome elimination with the subsequent incorporation of the supernumerary chromosome into an extra nuclear body. In those plants possessing two supernumerary chromosomes there exists an apparent method for the accumulation of supernumeraries during anaphase I of meiosis. In anthers of these plants, cells were observed in which two supernumerary chromosomes preceded either independently or in association to the same pole.
10.2307/2996043|Thirteen plant species, common to aspen-dominated habitat types in western Colorado, were tested for germination requirements. Seeds of Agastache urticifolia, Bromus ciliatus, Elymus glaucus, Erigeron speciosus, Senecio serra, and Solidago spathulata were nondormant and germinated in most of the tests tried. Seeds of Delphinium barbeyi germinated after 60 days and 120 days stratification. Osmorhiza occidentalis, and Heracleum sphondylium germinated only after 120 days stratification. Seeds of Aster engelmannii, Erigeron elatior, Rudbeckia hirta, and Thalictrum fendleri germinated in about half the tests and stratification increased their rate of germination. Agastache urticifolia germinated consistently less in dark than in light. Erigeron speciosus, Senecio serra, Aster engelmannii, and Thalictrum fendleri germinated less in dark than in light without or after short periods of stratification; but they germinated more in dark than in light after long periods of stratification. The nondormant species Aster engelmannii and Thalictrum fendleri germinated best following 120 days stratification under a thermoperiod of 24
10.2307/2997006|Coal surface mining has had an immense impact on the landscape of the Appalachian region. This study investigated the composition of the vegetational communities of 18 reclaimed coal surface mined sites at different stages of succession and 5 sites in the surrounding hardwoods. While many species common in the hardwood forests are found in reclaimed sites, the vegetational community composition of older reclaimed sites is far from approximating the composition of the reference hardwood sites. Herbaceous species richness is similar on all sites, while tree species richness increases with site age. Vegetational structure of reclaimed sites differs substantially from the surrounding hardwoods. Although reclaimed sites host many of the more common vegetational species, the role of reclaimed sites in the conservation of the flora of this region appears to be limited.
10.2307/2484779|Wild rice is a common annual in Delaware River tidal wetlands. Net production was as high as 20.9 g m
10.2307/2995956|Two new subspecies of Comarostaphylis discolor, subsp. macvaughii and subsp manantlanensis, are described from the mountains of Jalisco, Mexico A key to the four subspecies of C discolor is provided.
10.2307/2483641|Red maple seedlings lacking mycorrhizae formed beaded roots when grown in (1) axenic culture in which levels of moisture, temperature, and nutrients were constantly maintained and in (2) open pot culture in which different photoperiods and nitrogen and phosphorus levels were used. Growth of plant organs and formation of root hairs were related to nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations, but growth of individual beaded root segments was only related to the concentration of phosphorus.
10.2307/2484558|Striped maple (Acer pensylvanicum L.) may reproduce sexually and vegetatively. Many aspects of both processes appear to be adaptations to the unpredictable occurrence, variable duration, and wide spacing of forest gaps. Flowering appeared to be initiated by a decline in plant growth brought about by crown closure. Further deterioration in growth conditions and plant health caused a sex change from male to female. Striped maple was primarily dioecious with a ratio of approximately 81 male: 15 female, but 4% of the population was monoecious. Seed dispersal was localized but appeared to offer the opportunity for wide dispersal. Layering and basal sprouting appeared to be means by which smaller and larger plants, respectively, cope with suppression caused by crown closure.
10.2307/2484440|A study of allelopathic potential of Populus balsamifera (balsam poplar) on germination and growth of Alnus crispa var. mollis (green alder) was carried out. Leaf litter and bud extracts and fresh leaf leachates of P. balsamifera variously inhibited seed germination and radicle and hypocotyl growth of A. crispa at the four concentrations used: 2, 1, 0.5 and 0.1%. Hypocotyl growth was the least affected by the water extracts, followed by seed germination and radicle growth where a mean inhibition of 80% was observed. Morphological modifications such as root hair development and meristematic necrosis of the radicle were observed for at least the two higher concentrations used in the three treatments. Growth inhibition was not mediated by pH effects or osmotic pressure of the extracts. The data suggest that allelopathic inhibition of root hair development may be of significance to its infection by the actinomycetal Frankia spp., but additional experiments are needed to evaluate it.
10.2307/2483379|Degeneration of the ovules of Utricularia coerulea L. var. filicaulis Clarke may start at an early or late stage of its development, while the gametophyte contained in it remains unaffected. The female gametophyte may collapse at the megaspore or 2-nucleate stage. The degeneration in the mature embryo sac starts at the micropylar and proceeds towards the chalazal end. The endosperm begins to degenerate at 8-celled stage, while the zygote embedded in it may be quite healthy. The degeneration of the endosperm follows the same sequence as that of the mature embryo sac. The embryo, although embedded in healthy endosperm, may degenerate. The degeneration of the embryo starts at its apical end.
10.2307/2484359|Growth of excised apical segments of wheat coleoptiles, cultured in the dark, is affected by 3',5'-cAMP, 3',5'-cGMP, adenine and guanosine. These effects differ when the compounds are added singly or in combination with each other and with other growth regulators. The amount of elongation produced by 3',5'-cAMP depends upon the length of the coleoptile from which the apical segments are taken, whereas the effect of 3',5'-cGMP is independent of the length of the coleoptile. Interactions of the cyclic nucleotides and their precursors with optimal amounts of GA
10.2307/2996436|Variation in size and shape characters in Quercus ellipsoidalis E J. Hill was examined by principal components analysis (PCA) and geographic spatial autocorrelation (GSA) Mean values for eight size and nine shape characters were generated for 36 localities in Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, and Wisconsin All size characters are highly correlated and produce a distinct south-north pattern along component I of PCA. Shape characters are not as highly correlated and reveal no apparent pattern on components I and II of PCA Correlograms of the GSA test statistic illustrate significant south-north clinal variation for size characters while shape characters, which have only a few significant autocorrelation values, generally illustrate crazy-quilt patterns These results support earlier views of the pattern of occurrence of various forms in this species but do not support claims that certain shape characters have south-north clines
10.2307/2483991|The presense of one long-lived intercalary meristem (IM) which produces an elongated internode makes this plant ideally suited for developmental studies related to an IM. Three types of vascular bundles are present in the internode and are followed in development from the basal IM. The vasculature of the growing internode is explained in terms of a continuous system with protoxylem passing through the IM which is connected to a discontinuous system above the IM. The presence and types of protoxylem vessel members and tracheids are described. Early and late metaxylem were studied by random sampling technique. Both differ in frequency of types and orientations of perforation plates. The length of both types of elements decreases toward the base of the internode while the diameter increases. The average vessel length is 11.95 elements for late and 3.44 for early metaxylem. Of early elements, 26.4% are tracheids, while no tracheids are found in late metaxylem. Transitional elements which occur in the region of the matured IM are interpreted as supporting the view that xylem wall pattern is directly related to the degree of organ elongation.
10.2307/2996520|Based on herbarium specimens, the historical geographical distribution of Onosmodium molle Michx. subsp. molle (Boraginaceae), a near-endemic to cedar (limestone) glades in southeastern U.S.A., included 10 counties in four states. The center of distribution of subsp. molle is in the Nashville Basin of Tennessee, where it has been collected from six counties-Davidson, Giles, Maury, Rutherford, Trousdale and Wilson. Outside the Nashville Basin, the taxon has been collected from Carroll County, Tennessee; Franklin County, Alabama; Logan County, Kentucky and Jackson County, Illinois. A report of O. molle Michx. from Durham County, North Carolina is based on a specimen of O. virginianum (L.) A. DC., and there are no specimens to verify the reports of its range extending into southeastern Missouri or southeastern Indiana. Today, the taxon is locally abundant in the Nashville Basin; however, it is very rare in other parts of its previous range and may be extirpated from Kentucky and Illinois.
10.2307/2484434|A catalogue of the vascular plants found along a thirteen-kilometer portion of the Bronx River Park has been prepared. Over the four-year period of this survey, 663 species of 362 genera and 104 families were recorded. Of these, 222 (33.5%) were non-indigenous species. Records from 1880 indicate only 11.1% were alien. Families with the greatest number of species in decreasing order were Compositae (102). Gramineae (51), Leguminosae (35), Rosaceae (35), Cruciferae (27), Liliaceae (23), and Scrophulariaceae (21). It was found that 69% of these plants were named in the 1880 catalogue of Westchester flora. Comparisons with current floral lists reveal that 71% of Ward Pound Ridge Reservation flora, 66% of Mianus River Gorge flora, and 74% of Audubon Center flora are also found in the Bronx River Park.*
10.2307/2484559|Study of Cuscuta for almost a decade has led to certain ideas about how specimens should be prepared. It is recommended that material without mature flowers not be collected unless in fruit; that fertile host plants be collected; and, that specimens be mounted within packets.
10.2307/2482102|1. In ovules of Mimulus tigrinus and Torenia fournieri, a single integument surrounds a nucellus that breaks down early around all but the chalazal portion of the megagametophyte. 2. The inner layer of the integument is differentiated as an endothelial layer. A chalazal hypostase is present in both species studied. 3. In both genera, the hypodermal archesporial cell functions directly as the megaspore mother cell; a normal mature megagametophyte is formed from the chalazal megaspore. In Torenia the apical portion of the megagametophyte grows through the micropyle, along the funiculus and in some instances to the placenta. 4. In Torenia, but not in Mimulus, starch is present in the megagametophyte from the development of the functional spore to the mature embryo sac and it persists in the early endosperm stages. 5. In both genera the endosperm is cellular from its initiation. In Mimulus, there are two uninucleate, unbranched, chalazal endosperm haustoria, and four uninucleate, micropylar endosperm haustoria, which branch and penetrate the surrounding integumentary tissue. One uninucleate chalazal haustorium and four uninucleate micropylar haustorial cells, which later fuse to form one four-nucleate haustorium, are characteristic of Torenia. 6. In both plants studied, only after several endosperm cells have been formed does the zygote elongate and penetrate between the endosperm cells of the second tier and then divide to form the embryo proper and the suspensor. 7. In Torenia funicular and a few placental tracheids develop adjacent to the micropylar haustoria. This seems to indicate an absorption of nutrients directly from the funiculus and in some instances from the placenta by the haustoria. 8. In the mature seed of Mimulus the endothelium remains only as a layer of crushed cells. The seed coat consists of one or two layers of collapsed cells and the cells of the epidermis of the integument, the outer walls of which frequently break down leaving the thickened radial walls as projections on the surface of the seed. An endosperm surrounds the embryo. 9. In Torenia four or five rows of cells of the endothelium enlarge markedly, appear to aid in the breakdown of other integumentary cells, and persist in the mature seed as large, cutinized cells which form pockets in the endosperm. The cells of the epidermis of the integument persist as the outer layer of the seed coat only over portions of the seed.
10.2307/2996215|The Vegetation and plant communities of Van Cortlandt Park, Bronx, New York were surveyed The flora contained 88 families, 236 genera, and 343 species of which 96 species were not native The distribution of field, fire, marsh and forest vegetation is presented in a map The forests were divided into four types: dry, moist, swamp and disturbed The forest types showed variation from level ground to sloping areas The marsh associations are common reed, cattails, low emergents and lilies, buttonbush, swamp forest and open water The Vault Hill Fire Community has been burned over at least once a year over the past five years
10.2307/2996018|Vegetation growing on soils derived from dolomite and quartzite parent material on open slopes in the Bear River Range of northern Utah and southern Idaho were compared using data from 8 pairs of plots having similar slope, elevation, and aspect. Detrended correspondence analysis and cluster analysis revealed that composition and cover of species were more similar within than across soil type, both in terms of species present and canopy cover Plant cover was significantly greater on dolomite soils, but species richness fluctuated from year to year Relative cover of forbs and hemicryptophytes was higher on dolomite, but the relative cover of shrubs, graminoids, chamaephytes, cryptophytes, and therophytes was greater on quartzite Lomatium nuttallii, Monardella odoratissima, Phacelia hastata, and Eriogonum umbellatum were characteristic species on dolomite soils Eriogonum heracleoides, Juncus parryi, Carex geyeri, and Hieracium scouleri were characteristic species on quartzite soils Leucopoa kingii, Artemisia tridentata, and Stipa lettermanii were common on both calcareous and noncalcarous substrates. Differences in soil-properties were significant, particularly in nutrient levels, texture, and soil moisture
10.2307/2483429|Pollen grains of Capsicum annuum and two varieties each of Solanum melongena and S. tuberosum have been cultured in artificial nutrient media by the hanging drop technique. Sucrose proved to be the best sugar for the germination and growth of pollen although dextrose, galactose, lactose, raffinose and rhamnose also were useful. Fructose supported germination and growth of pollen in one species but not in the others. Mannitol and mannose did not support germination of pollen. Sugars serve as a source of nutrition for the germinating pollen grain apart from providing a suitable osmotic environment for successful germination. Boric acid and borax are good sources of boron for pollen and were found to be most effective at concentrations of 0 015 to 0.02 per cent for optimum pollen germination and tube growth in S. melongena and S. tuberosum; pollen of Capsicum annuum do not need any exogenous supply of boron for germination. Boron seems to aid in the absorption and utilization of sugars and the synthesis of pectic compounds for the actively growing pollen tube.
10.2307/2995909|Vegetation of a pine-savanna on an olivine-serpentine outcrop is described Soil characteristics, community structure, species composition, species richness, and representation of life-forms and geographic areas are discussed and compared with those of oak-mixed hardwood vegetation growing on mica gneiss slopes in the same area The pine-savanna differs from the oak-mixed hardwoods in the following ways: canopy closure is incomplete, whereas a closed canopy is observed on mica gneiss; the pine-savanna has somewhat fewer species; hemicryptophytes and chamaephytes are more important life-forms in the flora of the pine-savanna than in that of the oak-mixed hardwood type; the flora of the pine-savanna displays an affinity with that of midwestern regions of the United States, represented by a disjunct element (6%), whereas the oak-mixed hardwood type is more closely allied with southern Appalachian flora; the serpentine soils are more variable morphologically, are higher in cation exchange capacity and percentage base saturation, and are lower in acidity, the ratio of calcium to magnesium, and difference in water retention between -33 and -1500 kPa. The pine-savanna is physiognomically similar to vegetation occurring else-where on serpentine, particularly in the northwestern United States, and contains range disjunctions and morphological variants such as typify serpentine vegetation on many continents It appears to be a stable edaphic climax as are some of the other barrens, limestone cedar glades, and prairie-like communities occurring outside the prairie region proper
10.2307/2484334|State fire records and literature citations were examined to estimate both regional fire frequency and point fire frequency. The number of annual wild-fires in the 550,000 hectare Pine Barrens has remained at approximately 1100 since 1940 when fire control became effective. The total area burned annually dropped sharply from about 22,000 ha during 1906-1939 to 8,000 ha in the past four decades. Extensive wildfires of 8,000-16,000 ha each are common. Since 1838, about every two decades on the average, 10% or more of the predominant pine and oak forest burns in a single year (50,000 ha). An average point in the pine and oak forest burns currently at about 65 year intervals, compared with 20 year intervals earlier this century. The number of wildfires in the region correlates linearly with the number of dry months in a year. However, the area burned annually is constant with up to four dry months during the January-to-September period; both average and variability of area burned increases with five or more dry months. The results suggest the upland Pine Barrens are a mosaic of fire-caused patches at two levels of scale: a fine-grained scale of small (averaging 6 ha) young patches imprinted on a coarse-grained scale of large (several tens of ha), variable-sized patches more than four decades old. The drop in point fire frequency favors (a) non fire-adapted populations, (b) hardwoods swamp replacing cedar swamp, and (c) loss of the coarsegrained landscape mosaic.
10.2307/2483510|Relative frequencies and distribution patterns of anticlinal and periclinal division activity were studied in the phellogen and the vascular cambium. Greatest periclinal cambial activity produces localized excessive amounts of xylem, i.e., the winged form. Localized areas of excessive anticlinal divisions in the cambium are located in a zone on either side of but close to the edge of the wing. This results in removing portions of the cambium from the periclinany active zone and results in the pronounced curvature of the rays. Anticlinal activity in the phellogen roughly corresponded in position to comparable areas in the vascular cambium.
10.2307/2484625|An analysis of the transfusion tissue in the leaves of sixteen species of Pinus has revealed that the proportion of parenchyma to tracheids varies greatly. In the single-needle pine, the number of parenchyma cells is smaller than the number of tracheids, whereas in the five-needle pines the contrary is found. The two- and three-needle types fall in between these two extremes with respect to the relative number of parenchyma cells. If a high ratio of transfusion tracheids to transfusion parenchyma cells is considered a primitive trait, P. monophylla is closer to the ancestral type than are the other pines.
10.2307/2483416|Six dominant shrub species (Gaylussacia baccata, Vaccinium vacillans, Kalmia latifolia, Viburnum acerifolium, Hamamelis virginiana, and Lindera benzoin) of the northern New Jersey upland forests were studied to determine their relative growth response under two contrasting light regimes (one representative of an open pine forest, and the other of a closed mature oak forest). Two walk-in growth chambers were programmed to approximate the conditions in these two forest types. Replicates of the six species were placed in the two growth chambers with light intensity as the variable, and daylength, temperature and relative humidity as constant factors. Based on relative leaf area determinations and overall responses of the plants, the growth of these species under the specified conditions yielded limited support to the order in which they had been placed for construction of the shrub continuum of northern New Jersey.
10.2307/2996339|Sixteen submersed taxa occurred in 900 0.15 m<sup>2</sup> sample plots in Chenango Lake, a small (12.2 ha), shallow (mean depth = 1.76 m), alkaline lake. The most frequently encountered species were Chara vulgaris L. (73.1% frequency), Vallisneria americana Michx. (47.7%), and Potamogeton amplifolius Tuckerm. (38.3%). Other species with a frequency greater than 20% were Elodea canadensis Michx., Myriophyllum exalbescens Fern., and P. praelongus L. A vegetation map derived from transect data demonstrated that ca. 35% of the littoral zone sampled was dominated by Chara vulgaris, ca. 29% by Vallisneria americana, and ca. 21% by P. amplifolius. An unusual pattern of alternating bands of C. vulgaris and V. americana with increasing depth was observed. Considerable overlap exists in the depth ranges of the six most frequent species, but these species do differ significantly in the overall patterns of their depth distributions according to pairwise chi-square tests. Vallisneria americana showed its highest frequencies from 0.5-2.5 m, Chara vulgaris from 1-6 m, Elodea canadensis from 1-5 m, Potamogeton amplifolius from 1.5-5.5 m, Myriophyllum exalbescens from 2-5 m, and P. praelongus from 2-5.5 m. Chara vulgaris was significantly positively associated with all of the other most frequent species except Vallisneria americana. Potamogeton praelongus also registered positive associations with P. amplifolius and Myriophyllum exalbescens. In contrast, Vallisneria was negatively associated with both P. praelongus and M. exalbescens. The biological basis for observed distribution patterns is not yet known.
10.2307/2484353|Seed proteins from 24 populations representing ten taxa from Wyoming, Nebraska, Colorado, and Montana were examined using polyacrylamide gel disc electrophoresis. Migration velocities for protein bands were calculated. The total number of protein bands for all populations (OTU's), as determined by R
10.2307/2996187|Dormancy of seeds of Impatiens capensis Meerb. forma capensis, collected locally (Ottawa, Canada) and stored at 5C in a fully imbibed condition, was broken after a storage period of about 4.5 months. Seeds of I. capensis Meerb. f. immaculata (Weath.) Fern. and Schub. seemed to require an additional week under similar conditions before showing evidence of breaking dormancy, while seeds of I. pallida Nutt. required 5 months stratification at 5C before germination was possible. Seeds of I. capensis f. capensis were stored for 5 and 6 months at 5C at relative humidities ranging from 0 to 100%. Seeds that had been stored at 100% RH had only a 40% increase in weight (fully imbibed seeds increased by 75%), were 95% viable, but 0% germinable. Seeds stored at 5 to 83% RH lost about 16% of their weight, retained only 30 to 70% viability, and were 0% germinable. Seeds that had been stored over silica gel (0% RH) lost about 35% of their weight, retained 40% viability, but were 0% germinable. The results are interpreted as meaning that a) free standing water around the seeds is necessary during stratification to remove inhibitory substances responsible for the dormant condition and b) a loss of 16% of their water content represents a critical value for survival of these desiccation-intolerant seeds. Seedlings of I. capensis usually formed an average of 12 adventitious roots at the base of the hypocotyl, while those of I. pallida formed 16. One seed of I. capensis f. capensis contained twin embryos, the first time twins have been reported in this genus.
10.2307/2483645|When incubated with glucose-l-phosphate under appropriate conditions, many cells in the stem of Zebrina manufactured much new material in the cytoplasm. Since the synthate stained the characteristic blues, purples, and mahogany-reds with I
10.2307/2484467|Jack-in-the-pulpit, Arisaema triphyllum (L.) Schott., may bear monoecious or dioecious flowering stalks. Sex expression is not fixed, but may vary from season to season. Pistillate plants tended to be larger than staminate plants, with monoecious plants being intermediate in size, but no single morphometric measurement or combination of measurements separated these plants. Spathe and spadix colors varied independently and appear to be under genetic rather than environmental control
10.2307/2997098|The vascular flora of Orient Beach State Park, New York, is based exclusively on collections made by the authors from April 1988 to October 1990. Altogether, 277 vascular plant species in 183 genera and 67 families are reported here. The largest families are Poaceae (49 species) and Asteraceae (48 species), and the largest genera are Aster, Solidago, Polygonum, and Panicum. The park's current flora is compared with a 1934 flora published by Latham. Natural plant communities of the park are described and discussed. Eighteen plant species have been designated as rare in New York State (Clemants 1989; Mitchell 1986).
10.2307/2481931|1. Cultures of Itersonilia perplexans isolated from nature are composed of dikaryotic hyphae with clamp connections. Numerous binucleate sporogenous cells with clamp connections are produced on the aerial hyphae. 2. Each sporogenous cell produces an elongate sporophore which transfers the cytoplasm and two nuclei to the single ballistospore that is produced at its tip. The spore is discharged in the binucleate condition. 3. Binucleate chlamydospores are produced singly or in chains. 4. Karyogamy has not been observed at any point in the life cycle of the organism. Single-ballistospore cultures give rise to typical colonies with binucleate cells and clamp connections. 5. Cultures on yeast-beef-extract agar, when flooded with water, produce abundant uninucleate conidia. Single-conidial cultures grown on yeast-beef-extract agar are yeast-like and consist primarily of uninucleate, budding conidia. On Sabouraud's agar these cultures become mycelial, and the hyphae are composed of uninucleate cells with incomplete clamp connections. The sporogenous cells and ballistospores are also uninucleate. 6. Attempts to "cross" conidial cultures have not yet been successful. The fungus appears to exist in nature primarily as a miktophaplont.
10.2307/2483296|Castilleja coccinea is suspected of being parasitic because its roots typically are attached to the roots of other vascular plants. In experimental green-house culture, it significantly reduces the growth of a host, Kalanchoe daigremontiana Hamet and Perrier. This and other evidence imply that the species actually is parasitic.
10.2307/2483197|Several putative hybrids of Elymus cinereus x Sitanion hystrix were found growing in an experimental enclosure near Shoshone, Idaho, in 1960. Cytological and morphological analysis of the reputed hybrids confirmed the suggestion that these plants were bonafide hybrids. E. cinereus and S. hystrix were the only species growing in the locale that could have contributed the particular combination of morphological features that characterized the hybrids. The hybrids were morphologically intermediate between the suggested parent species, but they resembled E. cinereus more closely than S. hystrix. Chromosome pairing was observed in the parent species and in the hybrids to establish the genome constitution of these species. E. cinereus and S. hystrix are both tetraploid species, 2n = 28, and regularly formed 14 bivalents at metaphase I. Their hybrids are also tetraploid and averaged 26.8 univalent and 0.6 bivalent associations per cell at metaphase I. E. cinereus and S. hystrix are apparently strict allopolyploids and may be represented by the genome formulae of AABB and CCDD, respectively. The relationship of Elymus aristatus to the hybrids of E. cinereus x S. hystrix is discussed.
10.2307/2484290|Pollen of the 8 species of the Anacardiaceae native to northeastern North America is described. All grains are classified as monad, isopolar, radially symmetric, and tricolporate. Sculpture is mostly striate and/or reticulate and one species is psilate (smooth) (Rhus aromatica). Mean size varies from 25 m (Cotinus obovatus) to 57 m (Rhus glabra). A species key and photomicrographs are included.
10.2307/2484238|Palaeohypnum beckeri n sp., a stiff-branched, probably aquatic and pleurocarpous moss is described from the uppermost Oligocene deposits of the Upper Ruby River Basin. No sporophytes were found The gametophytes have dimorphic leaves that are large and somewhat imbricate on the stem and small and spreading on secondary branches, as in the living genera, Brachythecium and Bryhnia. This is one of a very few species of pre-Pleistocene fossil mosses ever found as impressions.
10.2307/2483714|Hydroxy-L-proline has been found to have a number of pronounced effects on the development of gametophytes of Scapania nemorosa (L.) Dum, including the induction of phenocopies of other taxa. Pursuant to these discoveries the interaction of hydroxyproline and its analogue, L-proline, have been investigated. When equimolar concentrations (0.1mM) proline and hydroxyproline were supplied to developing gametophytes at each of three distinctive stages of ontogeny, proline completely overcame the characteristic influences of hydroxyproline on that given stage. At some later time during the incubation period, however, the influence of hydroxyproline was always manifested. Because the effect was exerted at a later time, it was characteristic for a later stage of development than the one treated. When higher concentrations of proline, relative to that of hydroxyproline, were used the effects of hydroxyproline were circumvented for longer times and until even later stages of development had been reached. These results suggest that several effects of hydroxyproline on developing Scapania gametophytes may be due to interaction at certain sites of proline metabolism. This agrees with the suggested mode of action of hydroxyproline on other organisms including fungi and higher plants.
10.2307/2483625|Liquid endosperm is a viscous fluid containing starches, proteins, and a relatively high content of oils. This endosperm may remain liquid for 40-50 years and soft at least 125 years. In a survey of 169 grass genera belonging to approximately 30 tribes, 30 genera were found to have at least one species with liquid or soft endosperm. On the basis of the species sampled endosperm conditions in the genera are as follows: liquid-Dichelachne, Gaudinia, Gaudinopsis, Helictotrichon, Koeleria, Lagurus, Limnodea, Peyritschia, Sphenopholis, Trisetaria, Trisetum; semi-liquid-Apera, Arctagrostis, Cinna, Parapholis; soft-Airopsis, Ammochloa, Beckmannia, Dactylis, Erianthecium, Holcus, Lamarckia. More variation occurs in Agrostis (liquid to solid), Alopecurus (semi-liquid to soft), Briza (semi-liquid to solid), Calamagrostis (soft to solid), and Avena (soft to solid). Old collections of Pholiurus, Pilgerochloa, and Ventenata had soft endosperm. These 30 genera of the subfamily Festucoideae have been assigned by various authors to as few as four or as many as eight tribes. This study provides data supporting reassignment of certain genera so that all thirty are included in three tribes: Aveneae (including Agrostideae in part), Festuceae, and Monermeae.
10.2307/2484626|Fifteen major taxa of the herbaceous, perennial, caespitose Lupinus lepidus-L. caespitosus complex (Papilionaceae), primarily of the Sierra Nevada and Cascade Mountains in the western United States, are analyzed by comparison of seed proteins separated electrophoretically on polyacrylamide gel. The protein analysis of the complex is made with reference to morphological characteristics and geographical distributions. Interpretations are also made of the phylogenies of the lupines studied.
10.2307/2481766|1. The morphology and reproduction of Characium saccatum Filarsky are described, based on observations of the organism in unialgal culture. 2. Sexual reproduction is accomplished by the union of heterothallic isogametes. The mature zygospore is spherical and smooth-walled. 3. Asexual reproduction is accomplished by zoospores (facultative gametes) which are produced by a series of progressive cleavages. The pyrenoid of the vegetative cell gradually disappears during cleavage; each zoospore, however, possesses a pyrenoid which apparently arises de novo. 4. Bacteria-free cultures of the two heterothallic strains have been placed in the Culture Collection of Algae at the Botany School of Cambridge University, England. Cultures are also maintained by the writer.
10.2307/2996193|The arboreal composition and soils of 6 stands on gneiss and 6 stands on limestone in northern New Jersey and southeastern New York were studied to determine the factors influencing the distribution of the major arboreal taxa. Based on correlation analysis between taxa and between taxa and soil factors, species were associated with gneiss and limestone. The species associated with limestone were Acer saccharum, Ostrya virginiana, Tilia americana and Fraxinus americana, while Acer rubrum, Betula lenta, Quercus prinus and Quercus rubra were associated with gneiss. The species associated with limestone were positively correlated with high soil values of calcium, magnesium, pH, silt and clay, while the species associated with gneiss had positive correlations with larger values of iron, aluminum, organic matter and sand. In the stands studied here, the small representation of Quercus spp. in the sapling layer as compared to their large representation in the tree layer suggests that these species may lose importance in the future.
10.2307/2482205|1. Unicellular stellate trichomes in Physaria Geyeri, Physaria australis, and Lesquerella Sherwoodii have been studied in Feulgen-stained smear preparations and in sections, as well as in living and herbarium material. 2. The process of trichome development has been followed in the three species and described in detail for Physaria Geyeri. In the latter during the process of trichome-differentiation from epidermal cells, the volume of the entire cell as well as of the nucleus, nucleolus, and individual heterochromatic bodies increases considerably. As a result of this process an epidermal cell about 10 in length becomes a stellate unicellular structure 450-750  in diameter. The average final nuclear volume in P. Geyeri is 27 times that of the initial nuclear volume and that of the nucleolus approximately 16 times the initial nucleolar volume. It is difficult however to judge whether or not at the final stage the cell reaches a high degree of polyploidy, although the amount of chromatin within the nucleus increases while the nucleus remains in a resting condition. 3. Fully grown trichomes consist of numerous branches varying in number from 8 to 16 in P. Geyeri, from 14 to 25 in L. Sherwoodii, and from 20 to 30 for P. australis. The adult trichomes of Lesquerella are smaller than those of either P. Geyeri or P. australis. Several patterns of trichome branching have been observed for each species.
10.2307/2482320|In Isoetes muricata var. Braunii plastids function in the formation of the achromatic figure and occupy the spindle poles during nuclear divisions in the meristem of the root tip. Isoetes muricata var. Braunii possesses at least one pair of satellite chromosomes. Red-staining granules of uncertain function are present in chloroplasts and leucoplasts of Selaginella rupestris. Similar bodies were observed in leucoplasts in root cells of Lycopodium annotinum. Plastid behavior during premeiotic nuclear division in Lycopodium complanatum var. elongatum is similar to that during nuclear division in Isoetes muricata var. Braunii. In Lycopodium obscurum and L. clavatum evidence of plastid behavior like that in Isoetes muricata var. Braunii is strong. Chromosome size and number in some Wisconsin species of the Lycopsida have been determined. The author is indebted to Dr. Charles E. Allen for his constructive criticism.
10.2307/2482594|1. A method has been described which produces molds of external surfaces of leaves in a solution that is relatively opaque to x-ray radiation. These liquid molds are radiographed by using dental x-ray equipment and supplies to record the topography of the surfaces of leaves.
10.2307/2996782|A previously undescribed shrub savanna community, which we refer to as the Pocono till barrens, occurs mainly on soils weathered from glacial till of Illinoian age on the southern Pocono Plateau of Pennsylvania. Unlike most "barrens" in east-central North America, its soils are not sandy or shallow to bedrock; the same deep, fine-loamy soil series underlie the barrens and nearby northern hardwoods forest. An unusual abundance of rare plant and animal species in and near the barrens has attracted the attention of scientists and biodiversity conservation professionals. In an effort to understand the ecological dynamics of the Pocono till barrens and why the barrens are different from their mostly forested surroundings, we undertook studies of vegetation history, landscape patterns, plant species distributions and water table depth. The Pocono till barrens (1) are old, pre-dating European settlement of the area; (2) have burned frequently and over large areas throughout their recorded history; (3) presently cover more than 22 km
10.2307/2996749|This study examined herb layer vegetation (all vascular plants 1 m in height) of two montane watersheds of different stand ages in the Fernow Experimental Forest, in north-central West Virginia (WS3, 20 yr; WS4, >80 yr). Mean herb layer cover was 19.3 and 26.4% for WS3 and WS4, respectively. Herb layer biomass was significantly (P < 0.001) correlated with herb cover for both watersheds. Mean herb layer biomass was 8.1 and 11.6 g/m
10.2307/2995892|The effects of heavy glaze on damage, mortality and reproduction patterns of trees were studied in four forests, two growing seasons after a major winter ice storm Most oaks and hickory were resistant to glaze, while black oak (Quercus velutina), yellow poplar (Liriodendron tulipifera) and pines (Pinus spp) were not, with three-quarters or more of the trees damaged by ice For most species, per cent damage and mortality were positively correlated, but they were negatively correlated for red maple (Acer rubrum) and yellow poplar, which experienced extremely low mortality rates Density of tree reproduction increased after disturbance The effect on succession was complicated by site factors and the successional status of disturbed forests. Forests occupying xeric sites (Quercus spp., Pinus pungens, Pinus rigida) were least affected since overstory-understory species composition remained virtually unchanged On more mesic sites, succession was (1) accelerated in Virginia pine forests, where extensive canopy damage and mortality allowed rapid growth of oak reproduction established before the storm, and (2) probably retarded in yellow poplar forests because of the low mortality of canopy trees and stimulation of yellow poplar seedling reproduction
10.2307/2996365|Talinum mengesii and its allotetraploid derivative, T. teretifolium,coexist on granite outcrops in the Georgia Piedmont. Twenty individuals from ten populations of each species were sampled over a 180 kilometer transect, which included allopatric and sympatric portions of their distribution. Divergence in sexual and asexual reproductive traits was documented for sympatric populations of T. mengesii, but not for sympatric populations of T. teretifolium. Large flowers, long styles and early time of diurnal flowering in sympatric populations of T. mengesii were proposed as traits which may reduce interspecific hybridization and thereby confer a selective advantage in the presence of T. teretifolium. The formation of asexual propagules in sympatric, but not allopatric, populations of T. mengesii was reported and proposed as an important mechanism for reducing interspecific competition. Displaced traits had a high heritability (>75%). Divergence did not result from either ecotypic differentiation or clinal variation, but could be explained by either character displacement or catastrophic selection.
10.2307/2996464|The habitat preference and spatial distribution within a habitat of Guzmania monostachia (L) Rusby ex Mez., Catopsis berteroniana (Schultes f.) Mez., C floribunda L. B. Smith, and C nutans (Swartz) Grisebach were examined in southern Florida These epiphytic bromeliads are not randomly distributed but are patchy, confined to Fraxinus caroliniana-Annona glabra swamps Distribution within the habitat is subject to a number of constraints: temperature and light gradients, aspect, location of host species in the habitat and distribution among hosts Host morphology is also an important distribution factor. The number of principal vertical stems produced by a single tree (DBH) or the basal area of all host plants per clump were positively correlated with abundance of all epiphytic species. Host DBH had little effect on species abundance, except for the number of C nutans per stem. The four species were distributed over vertical stem gradients in the following sequence (low-high): Guzmania, C nutans, C. floribunda and C berteroniana The distribution, then, of Guzmania and Catopsis is not random but is patchy because of 3 or 4 factors: clumping in preferred habitats (Fraxinus-Annona swamps); habitat constraints such as temperature, light, aspect and location of suitable hosts within the habitat; and the host morphology. In this study, the number of host stems per clump was significantly correlated with the number of epiphytic individuals per clump, and accounted for 24-63% of the variation in this variable. A fourth factor in patchiness may be the location of optimal germination sites within a clump. Seeds and seedlings were more abundant on epiphytic bryophytes than on exposed bark
10.2307/2483460|Well preserved fossil fungal remains, both vegetative as well as reproductive structures, are described. These fungal remains were observed in the cortical tissue of arborescent calamite roots preserved in coal balls collected from the Upper Pennsylvanian near Berryville, Illinois, U.S.A. These fungi show close resemblance to the aquatic Phycomycetes such as Peronosporales and Chytridiales.
10.2307/2482481|1. The genus Dodecatheon in northwestern America is a polyploid complex ranging over a large part of British Columbia and surrounding areas. 2. Field and herbarium studies, plant collections, and cytology have revealed factors pertinent to the present classification of the genus. These factors have been discussed. 3. One new combination, D. radicatum subsp, macrocarpum, has been established.4. Chromosome numbers have been listed in table form. 5. The diploids occur east of the Western Cordillera; the polyploids along the coast and coastal islands from northern Oregon to Alaska. Only the diploid D. frigidum of the far north has both coast and inland distribution. 6. Changes in chromosome number, either of single chromosomes or of whole complements, are not always correlated with morphological distinction. They may serve as isolating mechanisms in the process of speciation.
10.2307/2482596|1. Four species and one variety of Peperomia from Fiji are described as new. With these new additions, a total of 24 species and 11 varieties are now known for that group of islands.
10.2307/2484355|Documented meiotic chromosome numbers are reported for 42 taxa in 36 species of 9 Cactaceae genera of southwestern United States and northern Mexico. First counts for 17 taxa belonging to 15 species are reported, including first counts for 3 genera (Machaerocereus, Rathbunia and Sclerocactus). Diploid and polyploid taxa, including one triploid, were observed, all consistent with the base number, x = 11.
10.2307/2482410|Glaze storms of destructive intensity, caused by certain frontal conditions, visit northern and eastern parts of the United States periodically; ice thickness occasionally exceeds 2 in. Resistance to glaze breakage is a complex matter, not simply related to one factor such as green wood strength, crown pattern, taxonomic group, exposure, and nature of the stand. The more resistant tree species are some of the dominants of climax forest communities. Several of the more susceptible species belong to early stages in succession, causing a slight acceleration of the rate of succession. A plea is made for improved and standardized glaze observations.
10.2307/2484223|The reproductive biology of E. propullans, a highly restricted species of southeastern Minnesota, and sympatric populations of E. albidum, a widespread species of eastern North America, was investigated and compared. Breeding studies demonstrated that E. albidum is facultatively outcrossing and produces seed when pollinated with E. propullans. In contrast, E. propullans produces seed in low quantities only when pollinated with E. albidum. The lack of seed production when E. propullans is crossed with conspecific pollen may be due to the species being one self-incompatible clone distributed in space. The primary insect pollinator of both species is the miner bee Andrena carlini. Although putative hybrid plants between the two species occur in the field, their rarity suggests that very little interspecific gene flow occurs. Possible factors promoting reproductive isolation include competition for pollinators and the microhabitat preferences between the two species. The paucity of natural seed production and the scarcity of putative hybrids suggest that E. propullans persits almost entirely by vegetative reproduction and that the species is genetically uniform.
10.2307/2560359|The systematic relationships of four purple flowered taxa of Capsicum were investigated utilizing horizontal starch gel electrophoresis. Twenty-five loci, coding for 15 proteins, were consistently resolved. Six loci were monomorphic in all four taxa. Capsicum tovari was found to be distinct electrophoretically and appears to be a valid species. It is suggested, based on electrophoretic data and other information already reported in the literature, that C. cardenasii and C. eximium should be recognized as a single biological species. Finally, it is suggested that domesticated C. pubescens be maintained as a separate species which belongs to the same species complex with C. eximium/C. cardenasii.
10.2307/2484288|The use of deicing salts on roads and highways in northern states results in the accumulation of high salt levels in soils along such roads. Roadside populations of two herbaceous perennials, Agropyron trachycaulum and Solidago juncea show significantly greater tolerance to salt than control populations when grown under controlled conditions and watered with solutions varying in salt concentration. For Agropyron, plants from roadside sites showed greater biomass accumulation and less purple coloring on the leaves than control plants. For Solidago, roadside plants were better able to initiate new growth during the course of the salt treatment experiment. In general, both species were quite salt tolerant.
10.2307/2995894|Female gametophyte development and aspects of the reproductive system of the gynodioecious salt marsh rush, Juncus roemerianus, are described The ovule is bitegmic, crassinucellate and anatropous Megasporogenesis and megagametogenesis are similar in pistillate and perfect flowers Two integuments, each composed of two cell layers, surround the young nucellus The archesporial cell arises in the young nucellus and enlarges to form the megaspore mother cell directly The megaspore mother cell undergoes two successive divisions to form a linear tetrad of megaspores. As the three micropylar megaspores degenerate, the chalazal one functions to produce a Polygonum type female gametophyte The synergids are large and well defined, the smaller egg cell is located against one of the synergids and the polar nuclei fuse near the egg cell The three antipodals are clearly defined but less distinct than other features of the embryo sac, primarily because the chalazal end of the embryo sac is relatively narrow and constricted
10.2307/2484358|Indole-3-acetic acid promotes the growth of apical coleoptile segments of Triticum vulgare Arthur, Hordeum vulgare Bonneville 70, Avena sativa Garry, Zea mays #13, and Secale cereale Balboa. Red light enhances the growth of wheat apical segments but has no significant effect on the increase in length of barley, corn, oat and rye segments. Concentrations of puromycin dihydrochloride, actinomycin D, and streptomycin sulfate which allow growth comparable to that in distilled water markedly inhibit stimulation of segment elongation due to either optimal IAA or red light (660 nm). Optimal GA
10.2307/2484488|Juvenile leaves of Caryota mitis Lour. are once-pinnate. Adult leaves are bipinnate. A series of foliar sprayings of young plants with an aqueous solution of 500 mg/l gibberellic acid (GA) caused subsequently produced leaves to have juvenile leaf form. Equivalent leaves on control plants produced leaves with adult form. The first leaves exhibiting GA-induced juvenile form originally were the second to fourth leaf primorida from the apex at the start of treatment. These results have implications for possible vegetative propagation of palms.
10.2307/2482925|1. Embryology of the total parasite Striga orobanchoides and a nonparasitic Striga euphrasioides has been described. The anther tapetum is of the glandular type and shows fusion between its nuclei which become lobed. The mode of division of the microspore mother cell is simultaneous and quadripartition of the microspores takes place by furrowing. The tricolpate pollen grains at the time of shedding are two-celled. 2. The ovule is unitegmic and tenuinucellate. It becomes inverted during its growth. As the ephemeral nucellus disintegrates the endothelium is differentiated which encloses and nourishes the embryo sac. The archesporial cell functions directly as the megaspore mother cell. It divides meiotically to give rise to a tetrad of four megaspores. A few variations in the formation and behaviour of the megaspores have been described. The embryo sac is of the `Polygonum' type. 3. The endosperm is cellular of the Brunella type (Schnarf, 1929). The first division is transverse and divides the embryo sac into a micropylar and a chalazal chamber. The nucleus of the latter divides but once to give rise to a rather weak two-nuclcate chalazal haustorium. The first division in the micropylar chamber is vertical and the second transverse. This separates the two micropylar haustorial initials from the initials of the endosperm proper. These haustorial cells become binucleate, and invade the integument. The initials of the endosperm proper also form two sterile pieces of endosperm, one below the micropylar and the other above the chalazal haustorium. These conduct food from the haustoria which is stored in the main body of the endosperm. 4. The embryo develops according to the Crucifer type. Seeds are unitegmic and endospermic. The mature embryo has feebly developed cotyledons. The seed coat shows characteristic thickenings. Haustoria disintegrate in the seed. The pollen tube is persistent in the micropyle. 5. Embryologically Striga closely resembles, Orobanche, Cistanche and Aeginetia.
10.2307/2482869|Plant fossils from the basal rock unit of the Lakota formation of the Black Hills which Fontaine considered to be of Lower Cretaceous age were examined for epidermal structure. Only one species was found to possess a well preserved epidermis. On the basis of gross morphology and epidermal anatomy it was identified as Sphenobaiera ikorfatensis (Seward) Florin f. papillata Samylina. Previously, this ginkgophyte was known only from the Lower Cretaceous of Western Greenland and the Upper Jurassic of Asiatic U.S.S.R.
10.2307/2484716|Modern fire records for Maine and New Hampshire and other historical evidence were investigated to infer the occurrence and distribution of fire in pre-settlement time. Between the decades of 1910-1920 and 1960-1970 fire incidence increased and average fire size decreased sharply, with the net effect being a several-fold diminution of land burned per year. Fire was unequally distributed among forest types. Pine-dominated forests in the south-coastal part of the States were burned most frequently, with northern hardwood forests in central portions intermediate and spruce-fir forests least influenced by fire. The spruce-fir type in northern New England appears to be an exception to the generalization that coniferous forests burn more readily than hardwoods. Historical evidence suggests that in pre-Columbian time a significant potential for fire ignition existed in association with lightning and the incendiary activities of Native Americans. Because human control of fire size was lacking, the extent of prehistoric fires may have equalled that in the early Twentieth century.
10.2307/2484226|During the last 100-200 years two South American taxa, Schinus molle and Schinus terebinthifolius, have been grown as shade trees in southern California. Although both species have potential naturalizing ability, only S. molle has become naturalized in southern California. Seedling establishment characteristics were compared for both species to ascertain a possible mechanism preventing the naturalization of S. terebinthifolius. Based on the root to leaf area ratios, plant moisture content at permanent wilting, the ability of the plant to extract water from the soil, and leaf density, S. terebinthifolius was better adapted to drought. This species had a faster growth rate than S. molle and it allocated a greater portion of its photosynthate to root development. On the other hand, S. molle allocated more photosynthate to leaves and stem growth. Growth of both species was equally inhibited by low light intensities. Results of these growth experiments indicated that S. terebinthifolius seedlings may have a greater ability to become established in the Mediterranean growing season of southern California, and a greater ability to withstand the drought of the following dry season. Therefore, the mechanism which prevents the naturalization of S. terebinthifolius is most likely associated with another aspect of the life cycle, probably seed germination.
10.2307/2996125|Sediments from nine ponds in the Nags Head Woods Ecological Preserve were investigated and a piston core from the pond with the longest organic section was analyzed. The base of the pond's organic sediment yielded a radiocarbon date indistinguishable from modern carbon, indicating that the oldest datable sediments in the pond are less than ca. 400 years old. Pollen analysis of the same core showed three distinct floristic zones that document the hydrological changes occurring within the pond in response to a rising water table in recent centuries. The vertical distribution of pollen of introduced species in the core confirms the recent age of the pond and demonstrates that sediment mixing has been very limited and has not contributed significantly to the apparent recent age of the deepest organic sediments. The pollen percentages at all levels were characterized by a near-constant background of the upland angiosperm tree and shrub taxa found in Nags Head Woods at present. Pollen of bottomland trees and shrubs increase steadily from the bottom to the top of the core, whereas Pinus pollen declines. These data suggest that the distinctive upland forests of the preserve predate the pond's existence, and that hydric forests are increasing in area in response to the rising water table. The ponds of Nags Head Woods are interdunal swales hydrologically connected to the area's water table. The diverse assemblage of fossil diatoms in the core contained no marine types and only a few taxa that are tolerant of brackish as well as freshwater conditions. Charcoal is prevalent only in the lowest portion of the core. This suggests that the area was subject to burning prior to European settlement.
10.2307/2484541|Root: shoot, leaf:shoot, and leaf surface area:weight ratios were consistent in Vallisneria americana and Potamogeton richardsonii from Chautauqua in all except the smallest individuals. Root:shoot ratio increased across the aquatic hydrosere, i.e., from submergent to floating leaf to emergent communities, but leaf area index (LAI) varied little LAI in most undisturbed native communities ranged between 5-7 m
10.2307/2995982|Forests of 14 small stream bottoms in the central Coastal Plain of Virginia were plotted on a Bray and Curtis-type polar vegetational ordination. Soil samples collected from each stand were tested for texture, field capacity, permanent wilting point, water availability, pH, and levels of extractable Ca, Mg, nitrate N, K, P, and soluble salts. Measurements of soil moisture and frequency and depth of flooding were recorded at two-week intervals for one year. Vegetational composition was strongly correlated with soil moisture levels and occurrence of flooding. Stands which were moist all year were dominated by Fraxinus pennsylvanica, Acer rubrum, and Ulmus americana Taxodium distichum was also important in certain frequently flooded stands. Drier swamps had high importance values for several other species, particularly Carpinus caroliniana and Liquidambar styraciflua. Stands with low soil moisture in the dry season but frequent flooding in the wet season were dominated by Quercus phellos. Vegetational composition was also correlated with soil pH and Ca, Mg, and N. Fraxinus pennsylvanica, Acer rubrum, Ulmus americana, and Taxodium had high importance values in stands with high concentrations of these minerals and with higher pH. Carpinus caroliniana, Liquidambar styraciflua, Quercus phellos, Q. nigra, and Betula nigra were important in stands with low pH and low levels of Ca, Mg, and N.
10.2307/2483787|Five specimens of a long-leaf x shortleaf cross-a very difficult one to make-are growing at Gulfport, Mississippi. Mean measurements of 19 characters, when compared with similar data from unrelated specimens of the parent species, establish that the trees are F
10.2307/2483809|Caloric equivalents were determined by oxygen bomb calorimetry for herbs in the first and second years (1966 and 1967) of succession in an old field in New Jersey. The values for the vegetation in 1967 were within the ranges normally given for herbs but the energy content of the vegetation in 1966 exceeded the normal by as much as 200 to 1000 gram calories per gram dry weight. The variation possibly was correlated with drought in 1966 and supports the opinion that caloric constants for vegetation often cannot be used from year to year.
10.2307/2996778|This study examined the effect of fire-generated gaps on the growth and reproduction of a rhizomatous forb, Pityopsis graminifolia (golden aster). Two growing seasons after the creation of artificial fire-generated gaps, we observed that these gaps were mostly devoid (<1% cover) of the dominant grass, wiregrass (Aristida beyrichiana), and that ramet densities of golden aster were an order of magnitude lower in gaps than in adjacent undisturbed patches. Ramets of golden aster occupying gaps were an order of magnitude larger (dry mass), produced five times as many tillers, and were more likely to bolt than ramets located outside gaps in not-recently burned or January-burned vegetation. Bolting and tillering were only slightly greater (10%), however, inside gaps than outside gaps in May-burned blocks four months after the May fires. We therefore conclude that golden aster potentially performs better within fire-generated gaps than within dense vegetation dominated by wiregrass, at least in years without lightning season (May) fires. We suggest, however, that such differences between gaps and dense vegetation likely have little effect on the long term performance of golden aster in pine savannas frequently burned in May.
10.2307/2482425|1. The initial cell of seven additional species of Synchytrium, S. geranii, S. edgertonii, S. marginale, S. amsinckiae, S. impatientis, S. epilobii sp. nov. and S. tillaeae sp. nov., has been found to function as a prosorus and give rise to a sorus of sporangia.2. This discovery necessitates their removal from the subgenus Eusynchytrium where they were previously believed to belong, and they are provi-sionally placed in Microsynchytrium, pending discovery of the method by which their resting spores germinate.
10.2307/2996664|Tumbleweed dispersal of Baptisia lanceolata (Walt.) Ell. and B. lecontei T.&G. was studied at a Florida sandhill site. The sandhill habitat is characterized by an open canopy of pines with a low ground cover of grasses, forbs, and shrubs. Plants tagged in the late fall were followed through the winter and early spring. The above-ground part of almost all plants examined broke off at the base and plants moved a maximum of 120 m from the growing site. Significant differences in dispersal distance were found between survey dates, and the mean distance moved increased throughout the period. Dispersed plants were concentrated in certain compass quadrants, consistent with wind-aided plant movement. Baptisia lanceolata plants that moved the farthest had fewer pods remaining on them. Wind-aided dispersal of the entire plant appears to be a viable method of long-distance dispersal in these two species.
10.2307/2482710|The upland portion of the Hutcheson Memorial Forest (82% of the area) is dominated by white oak, black oak, red oak, and red hickory. These species form an almost continuous canopy about 95 ft. in height. Beneath the canopy is a pronounced dogwood understory. The shrub layer is characterized by maple-leaved viburnum. The herb layer is best developed in spring when May-apple is abundant. The poorly drained areas are dominated by white oak, white ash, red maple, and pin oak. Recent wind damage has created many openings in the canopy. The understory is not as distinct as it is on the better drained soils. Transgressives of red maple are the principal components. The shrub layer is characterized by arrowwood, spicebush, and greenbrier. Spotted touch-me-not and skunk cabbage are the principal herbs. Hutcheson Memorial Forest is a variant of the oak-hickory forest type complex of the Piedmont, but it does not have the climax status which this community exhibits on the southern Piedmont. Openings in the forest resulting from occasional severe windstorms or other catastrophe are closed again by a process in which local old field species play a minor role in the re-establishment of typical forest structure and composition. Red maple and white ash, much more often than oaks and hickories, are the tree species that in the recent past and at present are destined to fill the gaps in the canopy.
10.2307/2484414|Paleoecological changes during the past 1,730 radiocarbon years at Flax Pond are interpreted from plant macrofossils, pollen, spores, dinoflagellates, and foraminifers contained in seven cores. Three pollen assemblage zones are recognized: (1) Gramineae-Chenopodiaceae-Ruppia spanning approximately the last century, (2) Polypodiaceae-Cyperaceae-Compositae-Typha of unknown duration, and (3) Compositae-Gramineae constituting the early record. During the interval of zone 3, Flax Pond originated as an estuary; in zone 2, sedge, fern, and sphagnous remains in the peat point toward conditions that varied between fresh water and oligohaline. Man's apparent opening of the baymouth bar (blocking Flax Pond from Long Island Sound) in the 19th century (zone 1) brought about a sudden change to mesohaline conditions causing deposition of Spartina alterniflora peat and a sharp increase in arenaceous foraminifers, Trochammina inflata and Ammobaculites sp. Since the 1800s, fossil evidence indicates that ditching and dredging of the marsh have maintained salinities ranging between 5 and 26 per mil.
10.2307/2996260|Previously, low levels of NO
10.2307/2996546|Several corrections and additions to the flora of the region, previously published (Greller 1977, 1979), are made.
10.2307/2484624|Dormant spores of Matteuccia struthiopteris were successfully fixed and processed for electron microscopy. Electron micrographs of protoplasts showed vacuolate peripheral cytoplasm suggesting secretory activity and protein bodies with extensive cavitation. Some cavities were associated with ribosomal penetration. The nuclear membrane showed poor definition, and the complete absence of an endoplasmic reticulum probably reflected the low metabolic activity of the dormant spore.
10.2307/2483683|Aspects of the morphology of Phycotheca Boreali-Americana material of Vaucheria gardnerii (gardneri) are described; the species is relatable to the subsection Racemosae of the section Corniculatae. California and Washington collections of salt marsh species of Vaucheria (V. intermedia, V. nasuta and V. pseudogeminata) are recorded. Described as new is the section Heeringia (type species, V. uncinata Kutz. = V. arrhyncha Heidinger), the widespread freshwater species V. taylorii and the marine V. longicaulis var. macounii (Section Piloboloideae), from Washington.
10.2307/2484080|Asclepias giffordii was reduced to taxonomic synonomy with the widely distributed A. speciosa in 1970. Earlier an affinity with A eriocarpa and possible hybrid origin had been suggested by the monographer. The set of analyses designed here to ascertain the taxonomic status of A. giffordii are applicable to similar problems in other taxa. These include two well known methods, PCA and cluster analysis, and a statistical test of homogeneity of variance. The F
10.2307/2996255|Peroxidase isoenzyme profiles of cambial tissue of 64 Acer taxa were examined in relation to various infrageneric classification schemes. Isoenzyme data supported the more recent (since Pax and Rehder) "splitting" into sections containing fewer species, but also provided clues to possible revisions in some classifications. One of the more notable findings was that A. grandidentatum appeared not to belong to the A. saccharum complex.
10.2307/2996082|Drosophyllum lusitanicum, the sole woody species of Droseraceae, has woodanatomical features very much like those of Dioncophyllaceae and Nepenthaceae. Features in common include vessel elements with simple perforation plates, fibriform vessel elements, tracheids with large fully bordered pits, diffuse (plus variously grouped) axial parenchyma, and paedomorphic rays 1-2 cells wide. Wood anatomy thus validates the close relationships claimed among Drosophyllum, Dioncophyllaceae, and Nepenthaceae on the basis of recent DNA studies. Wood anatomy of Drosophyllum is xeromorphic, in accord with the dry habitats of the species.
10.2307/2484781|The comparative pollination ecology of sympatric populations of Impatiens capensis and I. pallida is presented. Both species flower at the same time, produce nectar in nearly equal amounts and equal sugar concentration. Impatiens capensis nectar contains twice the amino acid concentration as I. pallida. Individual flowers of I. capensis bloom for about 2 days, while I. pallida blooms for 3 days. Both species require cross pollination of chasmogamous flowers for successful seed production. Impatiens capensis has 7 times as many species of insect visitors as I. pallida and this is related to the structure and position of the nectar-containing sepal spur. Both species share the same principal bee pollinator, Bombus vagans, and average over 70% chasmogamous flower-to-seed success as measured over the flowering season.
10.2307/2995995|Andropogon arenarius, A bicornis, and A lateralis grow together in southern Brazil along with individuals that are morphologically intermediate between all pairs of these three species. We observed only three such putative F
10.2307/2482782|1. The type commonly known as Janczewski's type IV is the one which exists in older primary root apices of soybean but not in the embryos and seedlings of these roots. The present study has revealed no "apical" or "central" cells in the soybean root. 2. The primary root tip of soybean consists of three regions: the promeristem, the primary meristems, and the primary permanent tissues. 3. In the root apices of embryos and seedlings, the promeristem consists of two histogens: the plerome and the common initials. The procambium is derived from the plerome (stelar initials) while the ground meristem, protoderm, and the columella of the root cap are derived from a group of common initials. 4. The root cap consists of two parts: the columella and the peripheral portion. The columella is directly derived from the common initials whereas the peripheral part of the root cap is derived from protoderm. 5. The procambium gives rise to the primary xylem, primary phloem, cambium, and pericycle. The ground meristem gives rise to the endodermis and cortical paranchyma. The epidermis is derived from protoderm. 6. The root apices of the mature seeds are more massive than those of seedling primary roots of various ages studied.
10.2307/2484256|Pollination of the flower stigma by either single pollen grains or by a greater quantity is shown to play a significant role in progeny behaviour. Evidently, limited pollination disturbs natural competition between germinating pollen tubes, and only those are involved in fertilization which do not participate in the sexual process under normal conditions. This, in its turn, leads to the development of new genetic features in the progeny. Moreover it was established that hybridization by single pollen grains placed on the cotton or wheat flower stigma changes the way of segregation in the F
10.2307/2483640|The floral pigments of Passiflora quadrangularis (Passifloraceae) were examined by means of paper, thin-layer and gas chromatography. Cyanidin 3-monoglucoside and the 3 : 5 diglucosides of malvidin, petunidin and delphinidin were identified.
10.2307/2484306|Granite outcrops occur in the Piedmont of North Carolina in three parallel zones associated with marked changes in topography. The outcrops of the west-central and western portion of the state, neglected in the literature, are distinct from, but no less floristically rich than, the Fall-line outcrops. Distributions of characteristic granite outcrop species show six general patterns: endemic, restricted endemic, near-endemic, Coastal Plain species, Mountain species, and weedy species. These patterns are discussed in relation to available habitats, population differentiation, and ecological processes on the outcrops. An "island-hopping" model is presented to account for the discrepancy between the apparent antiquity of the flora and the relatively recent origin of specific outcrops. Successional trends on the outcrops are seen as short-term, self-perpetuating fluctuations.
10.2307/2482564|From Jamaica Halimeda goreauii and f. compacta (Chlorophyceae-Codiaceae) are described as new. They are primarily deep-water types, and are compared with H. opuntia and H. incrassata. From the Philippines H. velasquezii is described as new, and compared with H. tuna, H. bikinensis and H. gracilis.
10.2307/2483740|Pollen contents of moss polsters from 20 sampling stations are correlated with size classes and basal area, density, and frequency percentages from 20 corresponding forest survey stations in Sterling Forest, New York. The Forest is classified as an oak-maple forest in which hemlock, birch, ash, hickory, and beech play important roles. Although large local differences exist in the present vegetation of the Sterling Forest area, the regional pollen rain appears to be fairly uniform. Oak, birch, pine, alder, and elm are overrepresented in the pollen rain, while maple, hemlock, beech, and tupelo are underrepresented. Closest correlation between pollen and forest composition is found in hickory and to a lesser degree in ash.
10.2307/2484782|Samples of frequently observed plant species from a twenty-year-old abandoned surface coal mining area in eastern Ohio were collected in vegetated areas previously strip-mined and areas not previously strip-mined. These samples were analyzed by emission spectrophotometry for trace metal content (Mn, Fe, Al, Cu, Zn, Mo). Metal element content of plant species common to both strip-mined and unstripped areas was generally higher in amount for Fe, Al and Zn in the strip-mined stands, if a significant difference existed. However, manganese was found in generally higher concentrations in plants sampled from unstripped areas. Cryptogams usually contained greater amounts of metal elements than the phanerogams sampled. These results are discussed with regard to current research efforts in elemental cycling and also in terms of possible application to reclamation of areas disturbed by stripmining.
10.2307/2996367|Twenty-five species of Sphagnum were found in fourteen low shrub bogs located in northern New Jersey and adjacent New York. Sphagnum bartlettianum, S. cuspidatum, S. fallax, S. magellnicum, S. recurvum and S. rubellum were the most prominent species. Three new state records were established: Sphagnum bartlettianum in New York and S. flexuosum and S. fuscum in New Jersey. Range extensions within New York State were also found for four other species (Sphagnum flavicomans, S. majus, S. platyphyllum and S. riparium). The S. majus and S. riparium collections represent the southernmost sites reported for North America.
10.2307/2996647|Hog Island, an island within the Virginia Coast Reserve, was extensively surveyed for state rare plant species during the summer of 1989. Aristida tuberculosa Nuttall, Bacopa monnieri (L.) Pennell, Euphorbia ammanoides HBK, Juncus megacephalus M. A. Curtis and Physalis viscosa ssp. maritima (M. A. Curtis) Waterfall were found in large numbers on the island. Juncus megacephalus and B. monnieri were growing in an interdune wetland swale behind the last back dunes of the beach. Aristida tuberculosa and E. ammanoides occurred together in exposed areas on older dunes west of the swale. Euphorbia ammanoides was also found on beach dunes growing with Panicum amarum. Physalis viscosa was found at the southern end of the island in 1990. The J. megacephalus population growing along a roadbed increased from 15 to 40 individuals between 1989 and 1990.
10.2307/2482004|1. The vegetation of Lappland in the vicinity of Abisko, Sweden (about 68
10.2307/2484114|The mature seed anatomy and morphology of Ondinea purpurea den Hartog (Nymphaeaceae) have been studied. The seeds are arillate and perispermous. The outermost cell layer of the testa is composed of interlocking, puzzle-shaped sclereids. Each cell of the perisperm contains several packets of starch granules. Endosperm is cellular and consists of a single or double layer surrounding a minute embryo. An operculum and hypostase are present. The embryo bears two large, separate cotyledons. Den Hartog's hypothesis that Ondinea is closely related to Nymphaea is supported. The presence of two cotyledons is discussed in relation to the presumed monocotyledonous nature of the family, as envisioned by some authors.
10.2307/2484785|Early plant succession on dredged lake bottom spoils was studied during the first two years following exposure. Species invasion during the first year was dominated by Populus deltoides. The second year dominant was Scirpus validus and P. deltoides was second in importance. The coefficient of community similarity for the first two years was 61%. Two distinct moisture gradient species assemblages developed: (1) Populus-Salix-Solidago occurred on drier sites, (2) Scirpus-Lythrum-Verbena occurred on wetter sites. Fifty-eight species were identified during this investigation. Successful species invasion onto the island is directly related to seed dispersal mechanisms, with wind dispersed forms being the most common.
10.2307/2482786|1. Five perennial species of the genus Setaria from the southwestern United States and northern Mexico have been investigated. 2. Cytological examination reveals that they are polyploid members of an agamic complex. 3. S. texana (2n = 36), S. scheelei (2n = 54), S. macrostachya (2n = 54), and the 72-chromosome form of S. leucopila reproduce sexually. 4. S. villosissima (2n = 54) together with the 54- and 68-chromosome forms of S. leucopila reproduce asexually by agamospermy. 5. The apomictic mechanism of these taxa usually includes the degeneration of sporogeneous or gametophytic tissue, the formation of aposporous embryo sacs, and the pseudogamous development of the embryo. 6. Two types of embryo sacs are formed, i.e., the 8-nucleate, 7-celled Polygonum type (sexual) and a 4-nucleate, 3-celled aposporous type (apomictic). 7. S. leucopila has been shown to be a facultative apomictic by progeny tests, by endosperm smears, and by a direct study of the megagametophyte development.
10.2307/2996756|Gradient analysis was used to relate water-table level, soil moisture, soil texture, available nutrients, and disturbance to forest composition along pitch pine dominated lowland community gradients in the New Jersey Pinelands. Twenty-seven forest stands were classified as mesic pine-scrub oak forest, dry pitch pine lowland, wet pitch pine lowland, or pine-maple swamp. Stand position along the first axis of a detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) ordination contrasted the distribution of upland versus wetland species. The DCA axis was correlated with forest stand position along the first axis of a principal component analysis (PCA) ordination of environmental attributes. The PCA axis represented a complex upland to wetland environmental gradient characterized by decreasing depth to water-table and bulk density and increasing soil moisture and soil organic matter. The percentage of fine sand in the A horizon and pH also decreased along this gradient, and the percentage of medium sand in the A horizon, ammonium, and stand age increased. Soil moisture and bulk density best characterized the complex environmental gradient. However, because changes in soil moisture and soil organic matter are functionally related to water-table level, hydrologic regime may be the primary factor underlying observed vegetation patterns along pitch pine lowland gradients in the New Jersey Pinelands.
10.2307/2484709|A field study of resource allocation in Potentilla recta is used to illustrate problems in both intra- and interspecific comparisons of reproductive effort in plants. Resource allocation was compared in three populations of P. recta from habitats differing in successional maturity. In the first year of study average reproductive effort declined significantly from the population in the youngest habitat to that in the most mature habitat. The differences between populations was as great as the differences found in some interspecific comparisons. In the second year, however, reproductive effort did not differ significantly among the three populations. In this and other studies of plants, differences in resource allocation along an environmental gradient do not consistently agree with theoretical predictions, perhaps not unexpectedly for species whose individuals have great phenotypic plasticity. An hypothesis is proposed to predict the pattern of reproductive effort in relation to environment for such species.
10.2307/2482429|1. This review has had as its main purpose the establishment of the correct generic name for cordaitean fructifications. Literature pertinent to this problem has been dealt with but the literature study of the subject has not been exhaustive insofar as species and extraneous references to the generic category for these cones. 2. Two facts have thus been established: The genus Antholithes has been proven to be in no way correctly concerned with cordaitean fructification. The facts as reviewed above seem to establish clearly the priority of the name Cordaitanthus O. Feistmantel, 1876 as the correct genus for cordaitean fructification.
10.2307/2481978|1. Amino acid toxicities to three varieties of tobacco susceptible to black root rot (Thielaviopsis basicola (Berk & Br) Ferr) and to three resistant to this fungus were tested in aseptic culture. 2. The amino acid level employed was 40 p.p.m. The susceptible varieties were Maryland Medium Broadleaf, Havana 38, and Judy's Pride. The resistant varieties were Havana 142, Havana 307 and Harrow Velvet. 3. The seedlings were grown for four weeks at 25
10.2307/2996744|Sexual dimorphisms in Silene latifolia Poiret (=S cucubalus Wibel) developed in two different time frames during the first year of growth. Traits correlated with flower number became sexually dimorphic as soon as flowering began while the remaining sexually dimorphic traits developed intersexual differences after females matured a relatively large number of fruits. There was no sexual dimorphism in green leaf area, although leaf surface area decreased during reproduction in both sexes. Biomass allocation to leaves also decreased in both males and females during reproduction. The main stem of both sexes grew in weight but not in height after reproduction began, with females adding more biomass per cm than males. Females accumulated more biomass than males in the latter half of the annual growth period, despite higher reproductive effort. Several hypotheses are suggested to explain this result: 1) females allocate less biomass to supporting structures, 2) carbon gain by immature fruits, 3) females may be physiologically active for a longer time period in order to complete fruit maturation, and 4) possible higher resource-use efficiency by females.
10.2307/2996759|A synopsis, including a key, of the nine currently known species of Disterigma in Mexico and Central America is presented. This is a remarkable increase in the past five decades, for prior to 1940 only a single species was known from that region. Disterigma fortunense and D. pilosum are here described for the first time with the first species now known only from Panama and the second from eastern Costa Rica. The range of Disterigma alaternoides, an apparent close relative of D. humboldtii, is extended from western South America into Panama.
10.2307/2484201|Tetraploid Elymus giganteus Vahl, 2n = 28, was hybridized with tetraploid E. dasystachys Trin., 2n = 28, and with diploid E. junceus, Fisch. 2n = 14. The hybrids were large, vigorous plants taller than their parent species. Spike characteristics were generally morphologically intermediate between those of the parents. Meiosis was unusually regular in the E. dasystachys x E. giganteus hybrids which averaged 0.11
10.2307/2484006|The abundance and chemical composition of marsh grasses, sea lettuce and phytoplankton were determined in the Hempstead Bay estuary of the Town of Hempstead, Long Island, New York in 1967. The marshland comprises about 6,700 acres and the aquatic environment some 11,500 acres. Species of marsh grasses belonging in the genera Spartina and Distichlis produce an estimated 17,113 tons of dry matter per year in the Hempstead estuary, while the acquatic sea lettuce and phytoplankton produce 21,955 tons. The primary producers of organic matter in the Hempstead estuary are shown to form valuable quantities of protein, fat, carbohydrates and vitamins. Protein content of marsh grasses ranged from 9.6% to 14.9% of dry weight. Zostera yielded 14.6% and Ulva 20.8% protein in the dry matter. In the species of Ulva, Zostera, Spartina and Distichlis, ash content varied from 5.5% to 58.2%, fat ranged from 0.5% to 2.9% and carbohydrate yielded from 18.2% to 63.9%. Four B vitamins were present in adequate amounts to satisfy the requirements of grazing animals and microorganisms. Vitamin B
10.2307/2482048|1. The vegetation was studied by quadrat samples on 16 areas in the swamps of the New Jersey pine region. These areas included both formerly cultivated sites and sites that had never been cultivated. Both had stands principally of whitecedar, swamp hardwoods, or a mixture of these trees. This paper presents an annotated list of the minor vegetation found in these areas.
10.2307/2482412|An inoculum of Saccharomyces cerevisiae was suspended in M/15 KH
10.2307/2996189|Quercus rubra seedlings were grown in containers in a greenhouse for 60 days in media with or without vegetative mycelia of the ectomycorrhizal fungi: Pisolithus tinctorius, Scleroderma auranteum, Rhizopogon nigrescens, and Cenococcum graniforme. Boletinuellus merulioides, a suspected ectomycorrhizal symbiont was also included. Seedling size was not significantly different among the fungal treatments. However, percent ectomycorrhizal short roots was significantly different among seedlings inoculated with different fungi. Seedlings were outplanted in the field and growth was monitored for three years. Growth of field-grown seedlings infected with S. auranteum was significantly greater than all other seedlings. Fungal retention and ectomy-corrhizal colonization within the original rhizosphere were present for two P. tinctorius isolates, S. auranteum, and C. graniforme at the end of the second and third growing season. Ectomycorrhizae from natural, unidentified fungal symbionts also developed within the original rhizosphere on some of the outplanted seedlings during the third growing season.
10.2307/2996305|First brought under cultivation around 1816, the large cranberry has become a regionally important small fruit crop in the United States. In order to assess genetic variation in naturally occurring populations of the large cranberry, sampling was conducted at ten sites distributed from Wisconsin east to Massachusetts, and south to Delaware. Starch gel electrophoresis and substrate-specific staining techniques were used to resolve 23 putative Mendelian loci. Population data collected as individual genotypes were analyzed, generating measures of population structure and genetic diversity All populations were found to exhibit low levels of genetic variation, e g, expected heterozygosity (H<sub>exp</sub> = 0.00  0.002-0.057  0.030). Relative to other plant species, total genetic diversity was extremely low (H<sub>t</sub> = 0.048 with the majority of all genetic variation due to differences among individuals within populations. This genetic homogeneity was corroborated by Nei's (1978) genetic identity which ranged from 0.977 to one. Recent events in the evolutionary history of this taxon are proposed to have played an important role in determining population genetic structure in this species.
10.2307/2482020|1. The development of vegetation on exposed granitic slopes was studied on Rocky Face, a small mountain in the upper Piedmont of North Carolina, with a secondary objective of making comparisons with higher mountain and lower Piedmont situations. 2. Two principal lines of succession are recognizable, one on sunny southerly exposures and one on northern exposures. In both situations crustose and foliose lichens are present on bare rock surfaces but do not initiate succession. 3. On the sunny, dry, south slope, Grimmia is the pioneer whose compact mats are usually invaded only by Selaginella rupestris. In depressions or wherever thin layers of mineral soil accumulate, Campylopus flexuosus initiates succession and is followed by several species of Cladonia. The mat thus formed is invaded by Polytrichum commune. The Selaginella and Polytrichum mats are successionally equivalent and are both invaded by the same herbs (Hypericum, Panicum, Danthonia, and Tradescantia). Pinus virginiana and Juniperus virginiana soon appear after the herbs and are the dominants on the few old mats which have remained anchored. A shrub stage (Callicarpa, Rhus, Chionanthus, Oxydendrum) between herbs and trees appears only locally where substantial amounts of mineral soil have accumulated. 4. On the shady north slopes Rhacomitrium heterostichum var. ramulosum and Hedwigia ciliata are the pioneers whose mats are invaded and substantially thickened by several Cladoniae. Then Polytrichum juniperinum appears and builds a still thicker mat on which herbs (Panicum and Danthonia especially) grow densely but are soon shaded out by shrubs (Robinia, Chionanthus, Rhus, Polycodium). Late shrub stages are dominated by Kalmia and Rhododendron. A tree stage (not now present) would undoubtedly be made up, first, of pine and, if not destroyed, later of hardwoods. 5. The differences in species and successional pattern on the two slopes of Rocky Face are explainable in terms of temperature and moisture contrasts. Apparently conditions on the south slope approach those of out-crops in the lower Piedmont and those on the north slope are similar to those of higher mountain exposures. 6. The sequence of growth forms, genera, and even of several species involved in succession on south slopes parallel those of the succession on lower Piedmont outcrops. The same generalization applies to the north slope and higher mountain situations. The assumption may be made that, on granitic rock outcrops in middle altitudes of the southern Appalachians, the successional story is everywhere similar. The same generalization applies to outcrops with southern exposures and the flat unshaded outcrops throughout the Piedmont.
10.2307/2996887|A lowland, virgin white pine-hemlock stand and associated old-growth habitats were studied at Pack Forest Preserve, Warren County, NY. An area of 48.1 acres, interrupted only by nature trails, has white pines up to 58 inches in diameter, and supports 355 native plant species-an unexpectedly high number, considering its location in the climatically severe Adirondack Mountains. This minimally disturbed old-growth forest and its associated wetlands are not only diverse, but essentially weed-free, making them ideal for future ecological research, botanical teaching and monitoring activities.
10.2307/2481996|1. Past and present studies on a considerable number of species of the Anthoceros complex suggested that they fall within two groups. The genus Anthoceros L., emend., comprises the forms with cavities in the thallus; a new genus, Phaeoceros, those without them. The variation within various characters, and their possible diagnostic value, are discussed in detail. 2. New diagnoses and taxonomic changes necessitated by this work are compiled in the concluding section.
10.2307/2483737|The chromosome numbers of the following 7 species of carnivorous plants are here reported for the first time; Nepenthes rafflesiana (2n = 78), Nepenthes thorelii (2n = 78), Aldrovanda vesiculosa (2n = 38), Drosera burkeana (2n = 20), Cephalotus follicularis (2n = 20), Pinguicula caudata (2n = 22), and Pinguicula colimensis (2n = 22).
10.2307/2997049|Spatial distributions of species within the herbaceous layer of a northern hardwood forest were analyzed to determine the potential for competitive interactions among phenological groups. Spring ephemerals, which were represented almost entirely by Erythronium americanum, showed few patterns of dissociation with summer green herbs. This suggests that resource utilization by spring ephemerals does not deplete local resource abundance for summer green species. Additionally, while herbaceous species richness is uniformly distributed across the landscape, cover is highly contagious. It appears that the herbaceous community is resource limited overall and that best growth occurs on sites where resources are most abundant. However, competition among species is not important in structuring deciduous forest herbaceous communities.
10.2307/2482246|1. A new species of Cordaitean leaf is described from the Des Moines series of the Upper Carboniferous. 2. This is the first description of a Cordaitean leaf which combines the superficial epidermal pattern with the internal anatomy, therefore, despite the fact there is no hint as to its length, it is perhaps the most completely known species. 3. When compared with previously described leaves of the genus the leaf was found to differ in specific details, it is accordingly assigned to a new species-Cordaites affinis sp. nov.
10.2307/2484219|Pityrogramma spp. exude a flavonoid farina on the abaxial side of fronds. The primary chemical components of these farinas are chalcones, dihydrochalcones and izalpin. These three chemicals were inhibitory to spore germination and gametophyte development of P. calomelanos at most concentrations. However, some concentrations stimulated spore germination. Field studies of P. calomelanos confirmed spheres of inhibition resulting in specific dispersion patterns around mature plants. This information is correlated to in vitro developmental studies.
10.2307/2996384|Standing crop of Altica spp. (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) and herbivory by Altica were quantified in a disturbed herbaceous wetland composed chiefly of two species of Ludwigia. The amount of leaf area removed (a measure of the cumulative effects of grazing) indicates that a substantial proportion of plant tissue was removed by herbivory at any point in the growing season. In early July and August, herbivory removed 5% and 9% of aboveground biomass, respectively, from L. leptocarpa and L. decurrens (16% to 43% of the leaf area of each species). During this time the plants were supporting beetle densities of 20.6 and 12.6 individuals m
10.2307/2484493|Vines of Vitis spp. are a common component of early and mid-successional hardwood forests of southern New England. During a major glaze storm (December 1973), severity of breakage of tree crowns harboring Vitis was much higher than that of trees devoid of grape vines. In areas of intensive infestation of Vitis, severe destruction of associated trees occurred, resulting in a major set back in succession and probably favoring continued success of the Vitis in the openings created in the forest.
10.2307/2481977|1. The nuclei in the leaves of adult P. Geyeri (2n = 8) and of L. Sherwoodii differed from those of P. australis (2n = 8) in possessing finely divided chromatin in addition to the characteristic heterochromatic bodies. 2. In 6-week-old P. Geyeri most resting nuclei in the primary root and some nuclei in the secondary roots were also in this condition, but in the nuclei of cells from cotyledons, young leaves, petioles and developing trichomes the finely divided chromatin was absent. 3. The number of heterochromatic bodies in P. Geyeri was not related to the diploid number of chromosomes, or multiples thereof, indicating that they are not prochromosomes. 4. Individual heterochromatic bodies within the same nucleus and those from cells of various parts of the plants differed in their response to the Feulgen reaction. 5. An increase in the size of individual heterochromatic bodies, rather than an increase in their number, was noticed in differentiating stellate trichomes of P. Geyeri.
10.2307/2483217|1. The pattern of differential segments produced as a result of cold treatment in each of the eight species included in this study is different. 2. The increase or decrease in total length of the diploid chromosome set following cold treatment in each of the eight species is variable. T. Catesbaei Ell., T. cernuum L., T. petiolatum Pursh, and T. ovatum Pursh show a decrease in the length of their diploid chromosome complements whereas T. Vaseyi Harbison, T. ludovicianum IIarbison, T. nivale Riddell, and T. flexipes Raf. show an increase in length following cold treatment.
10.2307/2484732|Existing desert roads and the adjacent areas under their influence provide a host of "water harvesting-plant growth" experiments that were inadvertently established when the roads were constructed. The edge effect of a paved road increases productivity as reflected by standing crop by approximately 17 times on the basis of the vegetated area alone and 6 times when the area of the bare road surface was included as part of the productive unit. An unpaved road showed an increase of approximately 6 and 3 times in the respective categories. Diversity values based on density, cover, and biomass were enhanced by the presence of the roads. Increased richness was mainly responsible for diversity changes. Stability was little affected but may have decreased due to the roads.
10.2307/2483292|Vascular elements are present in juice vesicles of mature lemon juices. This finding is contrary to previous reports in the literature concerning the vascular anatomy of the lemon fruit. Subcultures of vesicle tissue proliferating in vitro also develop xylem elements with bordered pits.
10.2307/2996840|Seedling distribution in relation to 18 different microtopographic features, relative elevation, and percent canopy cover was determined for woody species  100 cm tall in a Fraxinus caroliniana Mill, Nyssa sylvatica var. biflora (Walt.) Sarg., and Sabal palmetto (Walt.) Lodd. dominated floodplain swamp in northern Florida. Distribution patterns of 25 woody species corresponded to the duration of inundation by flood waters and microsite substrate type. Although the elevational range in the study area was only 1.5 m, microsite elevation was the environmental factor most strongly correlated with seedling distribution. Microsite substrate type was also closely correlated with species presence. Percent canopy cover differences over different species' seedlings were very slight and were interpreted as biologically insignificant. Large light gaps were not found in the study site and tip-up mounds, although present, were not common. Tip-up mounds were generally poor sites for seedling survival, those created by S. palmetto appeared to present a poorer surface for seedling establishment and survival than tip-up mounds of other tree species.
10.2307/2483643|A new sphaeropsidaceous fungus observed in association with Physalospora anamalaiensis T. S. & K. Ramkr. parasitizing Embelia ribes Burm. has been assigned to a new form genus, Ramakrishnanella Kamat & Ullasa in honour of Dr. T. S. Ramakrishnan and Dr. K. Ramakrishnan. The type species, R. indica, is described. The fungus is characterized by non-stromatic pycnidia, clavate and non-septate conidiophores in wall layers, dark, one-celled conidia produced singly and provided with an equatorial hyaline band developing like gangliospores. These characters are not duplicated in any other known sphaeropsidaceous genera.
10.2307/2995912|Experiments were conducted with seeds and seedlings of sweet buckeye (Aesculus octandra Marsh) to determine germination and early survival patterns and explain why its distribution is restricted to mixed mesophytic forests Seeds planted in both laboratory and field demonstrated that three forest habitats and soils from these sites provided no barriers to germination Mortality after germination but prior to shoot development was high in seedlings developing from exposed seeds and in floodplain forests Most of the early mortality was due to root desiccation Seedling height was greatest in mixed mesophytic forests and lowest in floodplain forests where frost damage to leaves also occurred Root development was best in seedlings from leaf-litter-covered seeds The optimal conditions for germination, establishment, and growth were in seedlings derived from leaf-litter-covered seeds located in mixed mesophytic forests, where six-week survival was up to 60 0% higher than in seedlings from exposed seeds in a floodplain forest Later mortality, largely because of rodent predation, is potentially very high especially in the mixed mesophytic forest
10.2307/2484013|The genus Erysiphopsis Halsted is reinstated. It is proposed to treat the genus Salmonomyces Chidd. synonymous with Erysiphopsis Halsted and accordingly the fungus Salmonomyces kamatii Chidd. is transferred to Erysiphopsis kamatii (Chidd.) Sathe. The form-genus Erysiphopsis Speg. is treated as invalid.
10.2307/2484814|Floral primordia of this grass are first initiated in May along the North Carolina coast but may be initiated earlier in populations at more southerly latitudes along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts. Development of flower primordia is progressive from south to north along the North Carolina coast. Concentrations of both soluble sugars and starch in leaf and rhizome samples from two North Carolina populations demonstrated fall-winter maxima and mid-summer minima.
10.2307/2484956|Spore morphology of 34 of the 62 polypodiaceous species native to the northeastern United States and adjacent Canada is described. All spores are monolete, heteropolar and bilateral. A perine occurs in 30 species, and in four, it is reduced or lacking. Sculpture is mostly scabrate and echinate. Mean sizes vary from 43  (Dryopteris hexagonoptera) to 76  (Onoclea sensibilis). Classification of the 34 species into 7 genera based on gross morphology is reflected by spore morphology in most instances. Taxonomic affinities of the 7 genera are discussed. Five genera are represented by groups of closely related species; two (Dryopteris and Athyrium) are characterized by groups showing somewhat greater diversity. A species key and photomicrographs are included.
10.2307/2996694|To discover how original, deciduous forest has fared in a landscape long-altered by humans, we determined the history, extent, composition, and structure of woods in Franklin Township, Somerset County, New Jersey. This 121 km
10.2307/2997072|Analysis of the bark of 5 species of Quercus in a cloud forest in Oaxaca, Mexico, indicates that the barks of Q. magnoliaefolia, Q. scytophylla and Q. peduncularis contain substances inhibitory to certain species of epiphytic orchids. In culture these barks are either toxic to orchid seeds and protocorms or inhibitory to their development. In nature, no orchids and very few other epiphytes were found on Q. magnoliaefolia; few orchids or other epiphytes were found on Q. scytophylla or on Q. peduncularis. No inhibitory substances were found in the barks of Q. castanea and Q. vicentensis; many orchids and other epiphytes were found on these species. It is suggested that the distribution of orchids epiphytic on certain of these Mexican oaks is correlated with the absence of inhibitory substances (ellagic and other gallic acid derivatives, leucoanthocyanin tannins, and others) in the bark of these species.
10.2307/2996276|Common millet (Panicum miliaceum) plants were fumigated with ozone (0.08 ppm), sulphur dioxide (0.5 ppm) and O
10.2307/2484683|A program of artificial pollinations has demonstrated that Podophyllum peltatum L. (Berberidaceae), the may apple, is, locally at least, selfincompatible, not agamospermic, and dependent upon pollen transferred between populations mainly by species of Bombus to effect the production of mature fruit and seed. The experimentation has also provided the evidence to show that optimum seed set results from cross-pollinations which take place 48 hours after anthesis, apparently.
10.2307/2481885|A reinvestigation of the embryo-sac of Maianthemum canadense shows that it follows the Drusa type but not the Adoxa type as was reported by McAllister. However, all the 11 antipodal cells are not often in evidence at the mature condition owing to the early degeneration of several of them and also due to the failure of division of some of the chalazal nuclei during the preceding stages. In about 13 per cent of the ovules, during the division following the 2 + 6-nucleate stage, the chalazal spindles fuse in pairs so that the mature gametophyte comes to possess four haploid nuclei at the micropylar end and six diploid nuclei at the chalazal end. In view of the close inter-relationships existing between the Drusa and Fritillaria types, it is suggested that this peculiar variation may be interpreted as a belated tendency to switch over to the Fritillaria type. The development of twin embryo-sacs and their ultimate fusion into a ''compound'' structure and the actual fertilization of both the egg apparatus by two pollen tubes is demonstrated.
10.2307/2996467|Biomass allocation to male and female reproductive structures, and total vegetative biomass, were determined for Acalypha rhomboidea and Pilea pumila plants growing in all treatment combinations of six light levels (<tex-math>$\langle$</tex-math> 50-<tex-math>$\rangle$</tex-math> 1000 Einstein m<sup>-2</sup> sec<sup>-1</sup>) and three soil mixtures of low, medium and high water-holding capacity. Vegetative biomass and reproductive output increased with increasing light, peaking at the next to highest light level Vegetative growth and reproduction were negatively affected by low soil moisture only at intermediate and next to highest light levels, where plants achieved greatest growth. In both species, reproductive biomass and also the number of staminate and pistillate structures increased with increasing vegetative size. With increasing light availability and increasing plant size, there was a greater increase in biomass investment into female reproductive function than in biomass allocation to male reproductive structures. Although sex allocation pattern varied over the resource gradients, both species allocated >83% of total reproductive biomass to female function in all environments. The results suggest that for these wind-pollinated woodland annuals with size-structured populations, an environment characterized by low wind velocity, the importance of rapid site preemption early in the growing season for reproductive success, and the time constraints of an annual life cycle may all interact to favor female-biased sex ratios for all individuals, regardless of plant size or resource availability.
10.2307/2483853|The pollen grains of 24 species of Vernonia were examined by scanning electron microscopy. Micrographs of the pollen grains are presented for representative species from among those studied. The pollen of Vernonia is sufficiently complex to permit recognition of a large amount of variation in the surface sculpture of the exine. It is possible, therefore, to deduce phylogenetic trends in the genus using palynological and biosystematic evidence together.
10.2307/2484961|Two new species of Tovomita are proposed. The first one, T. excelsa Andrade-Lima et G. Mariz was collected in the State of Alagoas. The second, T. mangle G. Mariz, was collected in the State of Pernambuco. Both species belong to Section Eutovomita Engler, subsection Chrysochlamydifoliae Vesque.
10.2307/2483201|Intensive collecting of Characeae in Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, the Society Islands and Samoa yielded over 750 collections. Herbarium sheets, formalin samples, and Carnoy-fixed cytological materials were prepared. New records include Lychnothamnus for Australia, Chara for Fiji, and Characeae for the first time in Samoa (a Nitella). The number of genera decreases from 5 in Australia stepwise to one in Samoa, none being known from the more easterly South Pacific Islands, indicating introduction from Australia and/or the East Indies. In Australia, Chara occurs about as frequently as Nitella although there are reported to be many more species of Nitella than Chara.
10.2307/2996514|Digger pine (Pinus sabiniana Dougl.) is replaced abruptly by ponderosa pine (P. ponderosa Laws.) on the western slopes of the Sierra Nevada in central California. That predation might be effective in limiting the upward distribution of digger pine and the downward distribution of ponderosa pine is considered in this paper. The effects of predation on the number of cones produced and on the number of seeds lying on the ground were quantified at the lower, middle and upper points in each species distribution. Generally, either no differences (or decreases) were found in the intensity of predation on these life history stages between the center of each species range and the zone of interface between the two species. In addition, the densities of seedlings and saplings per canopy individual were compared to see if the recruitment of each species differed over its elevational distribution. Again no differences were found. It is concluded that predation on these life history stages plays a minor role, if at all, in the limitation of either species to their elevational ranges.
10.2307/2996431|The anatomy and morphology of the leaves, stems and roots of Ipomoea hederifolia L. are described. This annual twining vine is heterophyllous and its leaves possess well-defined palisade and spongy mesophyll layers. Paracytic stomata and multicellular, glandular and unicellular, eglandular trichomes occur on both the leaves and stems The midrib and major veins are composed of bicollateral bundles, while minor veins are composed of collateral bundles The petiole base consists of two adaxial and three abaxial bicollateral bundles. Development of the stem vasculature of this twining vine may be separated into five ontogenetic stages: the bicollateral bundle stage, the cambium-like meristem stage, the normal cambial stage, the anomalous cambial stage and the supernumerary cambial stage The primary vasculature of the stem consists of bicollateral bundles. Later the external protophloem is separated from the protoxylem and internal phloem by a cambium-like meristem that produces cylinders of external metaphloem and metaxylem. A cambium then arises between the external phloem and the primary xylem and produces secondary phloem centrifugally and secondary xylem centripetally Lobed, concentric and foraminate patterns of anomalous secondary growth finally occur in the stem The lobed pattern consists of two bands of secondary phloem and two lobes of secondary xylem The concentric pattern arises from the activity of both a discontinuous supernumerary cambium that develops within the secondary phloem and an internal cambium that originates from parenchyma cells between the primary xylem and internal phloem. A foraminate pattern then develops as included phloem forms within parenchymatous islands of the secondary xylem Ipomoea hederifolia has a taproot that also possesses a foraminate pattern of anomalous secondary growth The outer boundary of this organ is a periderm of subepidermal origin Although the cellular composition of the secondary vascular tissues in the taproot is similar to that of the stem, the secondary xylem is less parenchymatous in the root
10.2307/2997123|Stem radial growth patterns were used to reconstruct the history of suppression and release during canopy recruitment of Fagus grandifolia Ehrh. (beech) in three old-growth northern hardwood forests. Overall, eighty percent of the cores showed periods of suppression prior to recruitment. The average number of periods of suppression in the 3 stands ranged from 1.9-2.4, and the average total length of suppression ranged from 45-52 years. At recruitment, trees averaged 66-80 years old with diameters of 5.1-7.4 cm at 1 m height. In comparison with Acer saccharum Marsh. (sugar maple) in the same stands, beech trees reached final release after fewer and shorter total length of suppression, and at much smaller sizes. Calculations using average height growth rates for suppressed and released saplings of both species suggest that beech saplings achieve half of their height at final release while suppressed, while growth of sugar maple saplings during suppression accounts for only 15% of their height at final release. The frequency and duration of periods of release in beech indicate that canopy gaps were short-lived relative to the time required for canopy recruitment in this shade-tolerant species, and that saplings responded to gaps created by the deaths of nearby canopy trees before replacing the canopy tree directly overhead.
10.2307/2483511|Near ultra violet (365 nm) and green (546-577 nm) radiations suppress mitosis in cells of the onion root tip meristem. As short a period of time as one hour of radiation was sufficient to repress the mitotic index. Green radiations are less effective than the near-ultraviolet. Near-ultraviolet induces a relative increase in prophase mitotic figures and green light induces a relative increase in anaphase mitotic figures. Mitotic division ia primary root tips of onion seedlings exhibits a diurnal rhythm with peaks of activity at noon and at midnight and secondary peaks at 7 AM and 7 PM. Irradiated roots do not deviate from this pattern.
10.2307/2484309|Seedlings of Comptonia peregrina (L.) Coult., were observed coming up one year after the clear-cutting of a 100-year old stand of Pinus strobus L. in northwest Connecticut. Given that the fruits of Comptonia are very dormant and that they lack any obvious means of dispersal, germination from buried fruit is seen as the only satisfactory explanation of their presence. The fruits retained their viability in the soil for a minimum of 70 years. Seedlings of many other species were also noted in the clear-cut, many of which also came from buried seed. The role of seeds buried in forest soils is discussed.
10.2307/2482303|1. One hundred bean plants were grown in nutrient solution under controlled conditions of light and temperature. Plants were selected for uniformity and twenty-five plants with 3-4 mm. buds were sprayed with 500 ppm. of the active ingredients of the diethanolamine formulation of maleic hydrazide. 2. Inhibition of growth and reduction of size of all above ground parts was caused by this treatment. 3. Leaves failed to expand laterally. 4. There was inhibition of cell development but no apparent abnormal cell multiplication. 5. Abscission of parts, followed by rapid growth of axillary buds was observed. 6. Abscission zones in petioles of treated plants developed rapidly. Reproductive parts developed in the bud before abscission took place but were delayed in their growth as were leaves and stems.
10.2307/2996232|Using a variety of techniques, we sampled the arborescent composition of six stands of upland, mesic forest in Alley Park. Composition was summarized and the stands were compared phytosociologically, and classified as either Oak, Mixed Dicot-Dogwood, Mixed Mesophytic, or a new type: Oak, Ash, Birch. The last type may have developed as a result of disturbance caused by a recent change in runoff patterns nearby.
10.2307/2484849|Percent incorporated organic matter and Water Drop Penetration Time (WDPT) were determined for soils beneath four southern California chaparral shrub species. Soils beneath Adenostoma fasiculatum H. & A., Arctostaphylos glauca Lindl., Garrya flavescens Wats., and Quercus dumosa Nutt. were collected from 8, 48, and 62-year old stands. Percent incorporated organic matter did not substantially differ among species within a site; however, it differed with respect to stand age. WDPT increased with stand age in all but those soils collected beneath A. glauca. Significant differences in WDPT were found among species only in the oldest stand. The data presented in this paper indicate that the intensity of water repellency varies among species and stand age.
10.2307/2484780|Four plant communities in the Great Dismal Swamp, located on the coastal plain in southeastern Virginia, were sampled and estimates of density, basal area and above-ground biomass made. Biomass estimation of individuals 2.54 cm dbh necessitated harvesting hardwood species and Chamaecyparis thyoides to develop regression equations. Biomass was estimated as 220,500 kg ha
10.2307/2484099|Studies were conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of artificial (chemical or mechanical), as compared to natural, population control of common ragweed (Ambrosia artemisiifolia L.). The studies were also designed to show the effect of artificial ragweed control techniques on associated plant populations. During the summer of 1969 field plots in the first and third year of succession were mowed, burned, sprayed with 2,4-D, mowed and then burned, or sprayed with 2,4-D and then buined. All tieatments applied to first- and third-year field plots caused a significant reduction in the percent cover of ragweed by the end of the first summer, with the exception of the burn treatment in the first-year plots. With this exception, there was no treatment which was significantly better than any other on the basis of ragweed removal alone. A year after application there was no treatment group with a significantly lower ragweed density, cover, frequency, or biomass/m<sup>2</sup> than that found in the control. The control response showed that in the absence of treatment, ragweed was displaced naturally through successional processes. Examination of the entire vegetational system showed that maximum disruption occurred during the summer of treatment application. The response in all first- and third-year plots, with the exception of the burn treatment in the first-year field, was an increase in graminoid cover coupled with a decrease in non-graminoid cover. A year after treatment, cover of perennials in first-year plots was significantly decreased. In third-year plots which had been sprayed, there was a significantly lower cover of nongraminoids and a higher cover of annual grasses. On the basis of these results, it is recommended that in most cases newly disturbed areas which will advance successionally should not be chemically or mechanically manipulated for ragweed control.
10.2307/2483773|Pedunculate bracts of Tilia are those in which the pedicel is attached at the base, and not connate to the bract surface. Two present-day eastern Asian species of Tilia have this presumably primitive type of bract. Fossil species in which pedunculate bracts occur have been found in Europe and eastern Asia. The present material is from the Geertson Formation in Idaho, Oligocene or Miocene in age, and referred to T. parvulifolia H. V. Smith. Besides bracts, which occur in abundance, flowers, fruits, leaves and pollen are described. Phytogeographic dispersal of Tilia is discussed, particularly the relationship between eastern Asiatic and western North American species.
10.2307/2996948|The Coastal Plain Pondshore plant community occurs in New York in central and eastern Long Island on glacial moraine and outwash deposits. These open grass and sedgedominated communities are maintained by seasonally and annually fluctuating water levels which alternately expose and flood gradually sloping, sandy pond margins. High water levels prevent shrubs from colonizing the broad, open shorelines. This dynamic plant community supports one of the highest concentrations of rare species in the state. Threats to the community and conservation strategies are also discussed.
10.2307/2484081|Shores of fluctuating water level reservoirs are stressful habitats for plant establishment. Shores are inundated by high water during part of the year and many plants are drowned. During another part of the year shores are exposed when water levels recede and surviving plants are left high and dry. We studied germination characteristics of 14 plant species common to reservoir shores in the Northern Great Plains. Mature disseminules, collected during July and August, 1977, were stored out-of-doors in a shaded site in Vermillion, SD, until they were tested for germination. Half the disseminules were tested in the autumn, from 13 October to 11 November, 1977. The remaining half overwintered in these conditions: (1) dry, (2) on moist filter paper in light and in darkness, and (3) in light in water. These were tested for germinability during 3 April to 2 May, 1978. Germination was tested in light on moist filter paper, in darkness on moist filter paper, and in water in light. Chenopodium album, Polygonum lapathifolium and Rumex maritimus failed to germinate in the autumn. Beckmannia syzigachne, Kochia scoparia, and Rumex crispus germinated 5% or less in the autumn. Among the species that germinated 10% or more in the autumn, Alopecurus aequalis, A. arundinaceus, Poa palustris, and P. pratensis germinated best in water. Bromus japonicus, Hordeum jubatum, and Thlaspi arvense germinated best in darkness. Phalaris arundinacea germinated best in light on moist filter paper. Overwintering, either dry or most, enhanced germinability of all species except Bromus japonicus, Stratification was required for germination of Polygonum lapathifolium and Rumex crispus, and resulted in much greater germination of Alopecurus arundinaceus, Beckmannia syzigachne, Bromus japonicus, Hordeum jubatum, Phalaris arundinacea, Poa palustris, and P. pratensis The design of this study permits an ecological interpretation of the results many of which correspond to observations made on seedling distributions in the field.
10.2307/2482764|The ideal conditions for spore germination in Dictyostelium mucoroides at 22
10.2307/2484471|The design, construction and field testing of a zero-tension trough lysimeter are described. Zero-tension lysimeters harvest saturated flow and are, therefore, most useful in sandy or stoney soils. These lysimeters are 0.5 m long plexiglas troughs mounted in the soil profile through the end walls of soil pits, at a 20 angle from the horizontal. Field tests in two sites in the New Jersey Pine Barrens demonstrate that these simple lysimeters harvest representative volumes of leachate with levels of efficiency and variability similar to those of more expensive and complex prefabricated lysimeters
10.2307/2996665|During March 3-4, 1991 a glaze storm deposited 2 cm or more of ice on 19,740 km
10.2307/2483309|A study of pollen size and axis/pore ratio in ten races of teosinte, twelve races of maize, and two collections of Tripsacum dactyloides (one a diploid, the other a tetraploid) has been carried out. The results indicate that pollen size, axis/pore ratio, and sculptural pattern can be utilized to distinguish pollen of maize and teosinte from that of Tripsacum. However, the similarity of axis/pore ratio data for maize and teosinte suggests that neither axis/pore ratio nor axis
10.2307/2484901|Amyema pendulum (Sieber ex Spreng.) Van Tiegh. and Amyema quandang (Lindl.) Van Tiegh. are exclusively ornithophilous. Pollination is effected by nomadic or migratory native species of Zosteropidae (Silver eyes) and Meliphagidae (Honeyeaters). The density and diversity of pollen vectors fluctuates during the flowering season of both of these mistletoes. Trilobate pollen grains are dislodged from the anthers while birds forage for nectar and become lodged in, or attached to, the feather barbules of the vector's forehead, crown or chin. Field observation indicates that birds prefer to forage on Amyema pendulum when both species are sympatric and co-blooming. The Amyema pendulum flower has a lower nectar volume and percent of dissolved sugars. However, it produces more open flowers per branch than its competitor and birds appear to be attracted to the greater floral display over the same period of time. The avian pollen vector species inventory of both Amyema species was virtually the same. Differing floral morphologies, and modes of nectar presentation, between both species appear to be adaptive responses for excluding nectar robbing insects in lieu of encouraging more specialized long billed avian pollinators. The facultatively self-compatible A. quandang produces more viable fruits than the self-incompatible Amyema pendulum. A comparative study of floral phenologies, floral life-spans and nectar flows suggests that the majority of maturing fruits, in the former species, are the probable result of successful geitonogamy and zoophilous autogamy. A trend towards xenogamy does not appear in A. quandang until the final third of the flowering season when Amyema pendulum ceases flowering. This is manifested by greater avian patronage and an increase of nectar production in female phase flowers.
10.2307/2484260|Lupinus arizonicus (Wats.) Wats. and L. sparsiflorus Benth., two closely related desert annuals, are taxonomically distinguished by trichome sculpturing, floral coloration, and leaflet width-length ratios. Insect vectors are attracted by and display a distinct behavior response towards the yellow white banner spot present on both species prior to pollination. Vector behavior changes with a distinct post-pollination spot color change. Insect vectors actively avoid all flowers with the now deep purplish red banner spot. These lupines appear to have a high potential for interspecific hybridization as indicated by 1) their occasional sympatric occurrence; 2) their overlapping flowering periods; 3) their identical protandrous floral development; 4) the occurrence of several pollinators readily visiting both lupine species on the same foraging trips; 5) their high compatability at the pollen-stigma level; and 6) the observed ability of the pollen tube to grow normally on the foreign pistil. The absence, nevertheless, of hybrid formation in the field and in the greenhouse, is the result of a definite reproductive isolating mechanism, and is here attributed to an incompatibility at the gametophyte level.
10.2307/2560357|The new species Dichapetalum schulzii is described from the Wilhelmina Gebergte, Suriname, bringing the total number of Neotropical species to 18. A new key to the genus is provided incorporating this species and other new species described since a 1972 monograph of the family.
10.2307/2997090|Revegetation of 1.5 x 1.5 m plots disturbed by severing roots and rhizomes and turning the topsoil was examined during the first growing season for a chronosequence of five stands. The objective was to compare the disturbance responses of communities of different successional stages. Species richness of post-disturbance vegetation was highest in the 50-year, savanna-like old field, but otherwise was generally lower in later successional stages. Species diversity was largely constant, but was low when one or two species dominated by reproducing vegetatively. Cover was high in the disturbed plots in old fields and low in forests. In general, both annuals and biennials (including short-lived perennials) were lower and woody plants higher as percentages of the flora and in relative cover in later successional stages. Perennial herbs were most important in the two mid-seral old fields. Floristic comparisons with the undisturbed vegetation and seed banks indicate that the seed bank was important in revegetation following disturbance in early-successional stages, as it determines the number and abundance of annuals and biennials. In contrast, remnants of the undisturbed vegetation persisting in the disturbed plots were more important in mid- and late-successional stages through vegetative reproduction of perennial herbs and woody plants.
10.2307/2484904|Ordination techniques were used to analyze phytoplankton and water chemistry data collected between 1927 and 1978 from Lake Michigan at Chicago. Ordination analysis summarized the phytoplankton data and illustrated the progression from oligotrophy to eutrophy and the subsequent reversal of cultural eutrophication after 1970 in the nearshore waters of Lake Michigan at Chicago. The analysis highlighted a significant correlation between blue-green algal biomass and Na
10.2307/2996182|Red and white fruits of Actaea rubra (Ait.) Willd. are similar in seed numbers, seed weights, fruit weights, and susceptibility of the seeds to predation by a geometrid moth larva and by small mammals. White fruits were removed from their stems during the daytime significantly more frequently than expected from their frequency in the population in two years, and red fruits were removed more frequently than expected at night (significantly in one of two years). Seed weights differed among individual stems, among years, and between morphs in some years, but there was no consistent trend in the direction of intermorph differences. The probability of insect and possible mammal predation on fruits was generally independent of infructescence size and size-class frequency.
10.2307/2483987|In an attempt to establish the effects of scopoletin on growth of tobacco, sunflower, and pigweed, seedlings were treated with scopoletin through a nutrient culture. A threshold level of inhibition was found in all cases between 10
10.2307/2996013|Seasonal growth fluctuations of 16 species over an initial 3 yr period were compared with community growth status after 10 years Distinct wind, ridge and lee species occur, which can be coupled with near relatives (ex. Haplopappus-Franseria or Lotus-Lupinus) to exhibit opposite relative abundance relationships per habitat Life forms (herb/shrub, degree of succulence, prostrate/upright habit) and abilities of species to persist in habitats of varying exposure to the wind and other environmental elements are described as functions of seasonal growth expressions and succession. Succulent herbs tend to dominate newly deposited sand near the beach. Colonial socialability is efficient in stabilizing substrates, and shrubs grow best in wind-protected sites. Replacement of some Composite species with Legumes is one observed mechanism of succession in the dunes Expansion of the introduced iceplant Mesembryanthemum over the ten-year period 1969 to 1979 and decreases in abundance of some natives which occupied niches now occupied by iceplant indicate the potentials for altered succession pathways for the coastal strand community due to exotic, aggressive genotypes
10.2307/2996973|Leaves of Silphium laciniatum L. are nearly vertical and have compass orientation, i.e., the surfaces face east and west. We studied the manner in which compass orientation develops. Compass orientation was verified by measurements of azimuths for three sets of leaves in the field. Averages of leaf azimuths were 77, 86, and 87 degrees from north. Averages of the absolute value of the differences between leaf azimuth and 90
10.2307/2482284|1. Maximum increase in length of the root tips of Trillium sessile L. does not take place at the same temperature where the greatest percentage of dividing nuclei are to be observed. Maximum increase in length of root tips takes place at 24 C. whereas the maximum number of dividing nuclei is to be observed at a temperature of 15 C. At temperatures of 1 C., 3 C., and 6 C. a high percentage of nuclei are seen to be dividing, but at these temperatures very little increase in length takes place. 2. There seems to be a "slowing down" of the spindle mechanism at lower temperatures which probably accounts for the high percentage of dividing nuclei at these low temperatures with little increase in length of the root tips. 3. Mitotic figures appear to be normal after exposure to temperatures between 1 C. and 33 C. for 96 hours. Mitotic figures appear to be very abnormal at 3 C., and these nuclei not actively dividing also appear to be abnormal at temperatures of 3 C. and 39 C. after exposure for 96 hours. 4. Studies on recovery indicate that Trillium sessile L. fails to survive temperatures of 3 C., 36 C., and 39 C. for a period of 96 hours. 5. Temperature effects upon the dividing nucleus are somewhat gradual.
10.2307/2996487|Sprouts from the root systems of American Chestnut (Castanea dentata (Marsh) Borkh) have been increasing in numbers and size in the successional forests of Connecticut in spite of the chestnut blight Chestnut stems are especially impressive in defoliation-induced canopy gaps where they sometimes attain a diameter greater than 15 cm and appear to reach canopy level only a few years after release Five sites containing natural openings of various sizes and one site subjected to selective logging were investigated by coring chestnut stems and surrounding canopy trees All chestnut sprouts subjected to strong release under natural canopy openings exhibited cores with one to three decades of slow growth followed by very rapid diameter increase The relatively good form of these chestnut stems therefore resulted from rapid changes in stem form and not by resprouting from root systems It is proposed that initial suppression in shrublike form was a natural step in canopy emplacement for the chestnut This reproductive strategy appears especially effective under severe competition with shrubs on poor sites. Modern study of chestnut ecology is important because an increase in the proportion of chestnut pollen is a characteristic indicator of the most recent climate zone inferred from pollen profiles in New England The role of chestnut as a climatic indicator is explained best by a complex process of soil impoverishment and organic litter build-up analogous to a widely accepted theory for the late Holocene development of blanket bogs in western Europe
10.2307/2996301|Strobilus production, pollination, and maturation were studied in Taxus canadensis, a procumbent clonally-spreading shrub. Plants that produced many cones had greater shoot growth; no obvious tradeoff between sexual effort and vegetative growth was observed T. canadensis is monoecious, but plants showed considerable variation in phenotypic gender. Because related species are dioecious, we hypothesize that T. canadensis evolved from a dioecious ancestor. Monoecy may have been favored as a means of assuring pollination via selfing; the proportion of ovules pollinated was positively correlated with the number of male cones on a plant. Selfing may be at the cost of inbreeding depression; 26% of the female cones aborted, about twice the percentage of the dioecious Taxus cuspidata. Application of nutrient fertilizer did not reduce the abortion percentage. Seed and aril maturation in T. canadensis occurred over a three month period, much more gradually than in T. cuspidata. Removal of the seeds, probably by antagonistic rodents, was very rapid and thorough in T. canadensis. Asynchronous ripening and monoecy may help reduce seed predation by rodents by reducing the conspicuousness of "fruiting" displays relative to the dioecious species.
10.2307/2995899|Fifty highbush blueberry plants (Vaccinium corymbosum) were monitored in Nova Scotia for berry production and seed set for four years Plants in this population showed a two-year periodicity in berry production No correlation was found between berry production and the number of plump seeds per berry. However, from year to year, open pollinated seed parents produced a similar number of plump seeds per berry Since this population is largely self-incompatible, we attribute this pattern in plump seed production to maternal or cytoplasmic inheritance
10.2307/2481810|1. Synchytrium modioliensis produces two main types of galls on the leaves of Modiola caroliniana and other malvaceous hosts, sporangial and resting spore galls. 2. The predominant type of sporangial gall usually is large, protruding, sub-spherical, oval, oblong, assymetrical, dark reddish- lavender, composite and multicellular, and consists of a greatly enlarged infected cell which is almost completely or partly surrounded by a sheath of one to three layers of healthy cells. Usually, the opening or pore to the infected cell is subapical, but it may be almost lateral or sublateral and vary markedly in dimensions. In rare cases the sporangial galls may be simple and unicellular or bi- and tri-cellular. Accordingly, they may vary from simple to composite, but the latter type is predominant. No compound galls have been found. 3. The resting spore galls, on the other hand, are small, predominantly, simple and unicellular and usually consist only of an enlarged infected cell. The latter may project partly above the surface of the host or be partly submerged in the host tissues. Occasionally or rarely resting spore galls may become bi-, tri-, and multicellular, so that they also vary from simple to composite. However, the simple unicellular gall is the predominant type. 4. Sometimes infection and development of sporangia or resting spores do not result in gall development. In most cases of infection of trichomes observed, cell division and cell enlargement were lacking. However, in occasional instances an infected cell of the stellate trichomes was transformed into an incomplete sporangial gall.
10.2307/2483885|Pectolytic and cellulolytic enzymes were produced in vitro by Gibberella zeae, Fusarium moniliforme, Diplodia zeae, Helminthosporium sativum, and Trichoderma sp., organisms associated with stalk-rot in grain corn. Enzymes of the polygalacturonase type were produced by all these organisms and showed maximum activities at pH 3-5. Pectin methylesterase was produced by all the organisms except H. sativum, and maximum activities occurred at pH 5-8. All the organisms produced cellulase(s) with maximum activities at pH 3-7. F. moniliforme exhibited a bimodal cellulase-activity curve with a broad peak at pH 4-6 and a sharp peak at pH 7.
10.2307/2483542|Developmental changes in the xylem and vascular cambium of Apocynum sibiricum were determined by an analysis of the radial files of xylem. The primary xylem and procambium are organized in two systems, one of elongated cells, the other of short cells in axial strands. The elongated procambial cells give rise to cambial fusiform initials and the axial strands of short cells give rise to ray initials in the cambium. Anticlinal divisions in the fusiform cambial cells are of three types, radial, lateral, and oblique. Radial and lateral divisions make up about one-half of all anticlinal divisions with the radial divisions occurring only at the beginning of cambial activity. The relative length of the partition formed in both lateral and oblique anticlinal divisions averages about 50% of the length of the dividing cells. There is a relatively high frequency of oblique divisions in which the partition is almost transverse. Following a decrease, the mean length of the fusiform initials is relatively constant throughout secondary growth. There is no loss of fusiform initials, except by ray formation. Ray initiation occurs by simple subdivision of fusiform initials. The findings are discussed in relation to the developmental changes in the xylem and vascular cambium of other herbaceous plants.
10.2307/2997162|Frequency and density of four invasive non-native plants (Lonicera japonica [.L.] Thunb., Ampelopsis brevipedunculata [Maxim.] Trautv., Celastrus orbiculatus Thunb. and Rosa multiflora [L.] Thunb.) were measured in the Pennypack Wilderness, a 324 ha natural preserve located in a southeastern Pennsylvania suburban landscape. Stem frequency and density of each species were measured during 1988 and 1989 in 163 plots of 20 m
10.2307/2484225|Offspring of Aquilegia canadensis L. from two contrasting environments (Hawley and Toby) in Massachusetts were grown in four different size pots in a greenhouse to determine the affects that restricting root growing space, decreasing nutrient supply, and increasing water stress would have on 24 phenotypic characteristics. The two populations had significantly different response to the experimental variables for five characteristics. This indicates genetic differences between populations. The analysis also showed that 15 characteristics were significantly modified by the experimental variables. This shows these plants' genotype permitted and the experimental variables elicited considerable phenotypic plasticity in floral as well as in vegetative characteristics. The differences expressed by the two populations, noted above, were not qualitatively different, e.g., the height of the plants of both populations were reduced by the experimental variables but not to the same amount. Nine characteristics were significantly correlated with the experimental variables for both populations, while six additional Hawley characteristics and one additional Toby characteristic were correlated. The coefficient of determination is given for these 16 characteristics, thus permitting the evaluation of the relative amount the experimental variables influenced these characteristics. Regression equations were also calculated for these 16 characteristics. Various uses of these equations can be made, e.g., the dry weight of underground parts can be estimated from either the height or dry weight of the aboveground parts. The great amount of plasticity coupled with the polygenic inheritance of many of these characteristics makes it difficult to accept Munz's division of the species into five varieties. Conversely these same attributes undoubtedly account for A. canadensis' ability to occupy such a diversity of sites (from dry woods to rocky cliffs, ledges and peat bogs) over such a large geographical area (from Nova Scotia to Saskatchewan and south to Florida and Texas).
10.2307/2483461|Aplectrum hyemale (a North American orchid) produces a leaf in late summer or autumn and maintains the leaf over the winter, when the clones are often covered by snow. The effects of warm and cold pre-conditioning environments on subsequent photosynthesis of this species were studied using clonal material from southern Wisconsin, U.S.A. Analysis of carbon dioxide exchange after preconditioning to warm and cold temperatures indicates that the plants are adapted to overwintering at relatively low temperatures (near 0
10.2307/2996835|Abies fraseri (Pursh) Poir. (Fraser fir) has incurred high mortality from infestation by Adelges piceae Ratz. (balsam woolly adelgid). Vegetational changes in the spruce-fir forest since Adelges infestation have included a large increase in the density of Rubus canadensis L. (thornless blackberry). Size and age structures, microsite and aspect distributions, and growth of Abies seedlings (stems  137 cm tall) were quantified on Mt. Collins, Great Smoky Mountains National Park in 1988 to determine patterns of co-occurrence between Abies seedlings and Rubus. The majority (87%) of seedlings were  25 cm tall, and most (62%) were at least five years old. No germinal (<1 year old) Abies were found. Dead wood substrates and bryophyte-covered surfaces both supported more seedlings than expected by chance. Seedling growth trends showed a recent increase in terminal shoot length and recent decreases in lateral shoot lengths, suggesting a combination of normal growth patterns and recovery from Adelges infestation. Effects of Adelges infestation were noted for 26% of all seedlings and were more frequent among older seedlings. Density of Abies seedlings was low at high Rubus densities, but seedling shoot growth showed no clear relationship with Rubus density. Rubus appeared to interfere with establishment or survival of Abies seedlings but not with annual growth.
10.2307/2483026|1. The paper chromatographic separation of chloroplast pigments has been studied with 43 different solvents and solvent mixtures. Developing solvents recommended by previous workers were studied comparatively, and a number of solvents not previously used for this purpose were also examined. 2. Sixteen of the solvents and solvent mixtures gave satisfactory separation of the chloroplast pigments. 3. According to the type of separation produced, the solvents and solvent mixtures may be classified into four types. 4. Solvents which may be used for paper chromatography of chloroplast pigments include propylene glycol, dicthylene glycol, o-dichlorobenzene, cyclohexane, and methyl cyclohexane, none of which have been previously used for this purpose.
10.2307/2484330|Data obtained from observation of mature spores of three species of Osmunda by scanning electron and light microscopy were used to produce a diagnostic key and spore descriptions for each species, as well as a computerized phenogram based on similarity coefficients. The data indicate that the spores of Osmunda claytoniana and O. cinnamomea have greater similarity to each other than either has to spores of O. regalis. Of the three species observed, the spores of O. regalis are the most distinctive. The spore data are discussed in relation to published taxonomic data available for the three species.
10.2307/2484552|The herbaceous monocarpic perennial Frasera caroliniensis Walt. (Gentianaceae) is the only member of the genus Frasera that occurs in eastern North America. Information has been compiled on its geographical distribution, habitats and certain macroclimatic parameters throughout its range. Frasera caroliniensis occurs in relatively stable, long-persisting plant communities at a large number of localities and in a variety of edaphic and climatic situations in the Eastern Deciduous Forest Region. Since plants require many years to flower, this may preclude the species from invading habitats undergoing rapid successional changes.
10.2307/2483650|When stratified seeds of Ambrosia artemisiifolia were tested in darkness they developed a secondary dormancy which was largely broken by restratification and subsequent exposure to light. In view of this and previous studies on the germination requirements of common ragweed it is suggested that this complex germination behavior has ecological adaptations which allow this species to colonize disturbed areas and to maintain large populations on them.
10.2307/2482169|1. Certain species of Trillium may be separated from each other on the basis of the total length of their chromosome complements. 2. The arrangement of all species of Trillium into definite groups on the basis of the total length of their chromosome complements would be difficult since there are species which have total lengths that fall between what could be established as definite groups. 3. Total length of individual chromosome may offer some help in the separation of certain species of Trillium. 4. Arm length ratios may be of help only in the separation of certain species of Trillium. 5. The primary constriction in chromosome B and T. undulatum Willd. which acts similarly to the differentially reactive segments in cold treated material would be significant characteristic of the chromosome morphology of that species.
10.2307/2484939|A 0.4-ha prairie near Buchtel, Ohio is dominated by Andropogon gerardi and has other prairie species, such as Eryngium yuccifolium and Liatris cylindracea, but is surrounded by deciduous forest. Soil analyses reveal that the prairie and the adjacent transitional forest vegetation are on a lens of calcareous clay. The transition is dominated by Quercus alba, in contrast to the mixed oaks of the forest on shale in the region. The age of the trees-as great as 298 years-and the characteristics of the soil indicate that the encroachment by trees has extended over at least 300 years, suggesting that this tract may be a relict of an eastward extension of prairie vegetation.
10.2307/2484765|Morphological, archaeological, cytogenetic and phytochemical data pertaining to species differentiation and the selection of cultivated varieties in the genus Pisum are discussed. The albumin and globulin electrophoretic patterns of 7 wild genotypes, including material of P. elatius Bieb., P. humile Boiss & No, and P. fulvum Sibth. & Sm., and of 32 primitive and modern cultivars of P. sativum L. indicate little phytochemical differentiation between and among taxa at the seed-protein level. This is consistent with the interpretation that Pisum consists of two biological species, the orange-yellow flowered P. fulvum and an aggregate P. sativum which includes wild genotypes of P. elatius and P. humile as well as cultivars. Artificial selection for smooth testa, for pod indehiscence, or for genotypes homozygous for the alleles af; af, tl; or tl, did not appear to alter the albumin and globulin protein patterns.
10.2307/2482922|1. The investigations that are here reported employed air dried pilei of the closely related, similarly colored, but morphologically distinct P. cinnabarinus and P. sanguineus. 2. The specimens used matured simultaneously in the same locale under identical climatic conditions but on different dead tree substrates. Spectrophotometric absorption curves of aqueous and 95 per cent ethanolic extracts were compared over the range of 300-1000 m wavelengths in the Model DU Beckman spectrophotometer. 3. The results revealed that the color of both fungi was very likely due to a single pigment constituting the same compound in each organism. 4. The usefulness and varied applications which spectrophotometric analysis offers for mycological investigation are discussed.
10.2307/2483428|Ninety-five species and varieties of the family Cactaceae were tested for antibiotic activity. All of them proved positive to some degree. It was ascertained that this activity was correlated with crassulacean acid metabolism. It is probable that variation of antibiosis depended in part but not wholly upon the concentration of the non-ionized organic acid molecules.
10.2307/2996213|The subalpine red spruce-Fraser fir (Picea rubens-Abies fraseri) forest on the summit of Mount Rogers in southwestern Virginia, the northernmost extension of this southern Appalachian forest type, was intensively sampled to obtain quantitative data on composition and structure of all strata of vegetation In addition, data were obtained on soil chemical and physical characteristics Although five tree species were present, fir dominated all size classes with spruce the only important associate Oxalis acetosella and Dryopteris campyloptera made up more than 95 percent of the total herb cover The shrub stratum was poorly developed with just three species represented This community is ecologically similar to other southern Appalachian spruce-fir forests
10.2307/2997007|Solidago aitissima (Compositae), a clonal plant, normally maintains rhizomal connections among ramets for one or two years and sometimes as long as six years. A study of a single S. altissima clone by McCrea and Abrahamson (1985), however, revealed loss of rhizomal connections (hereafter termed "sloughing") in a single season where ramets bore galls formed by Eurosta solidaginis Fitch (Diptera: Tephritidae). To determine if sloughing in the presence of Eurosta was the rule, we examined four clones grown under greenhouse conditions and five clones excavated in the field using a high-power water jet to uncover the underground rhizomes. The combined population of the McCrea and Abrahamson work and this study confirmed their findings-that rhizomal connection was significantly more likely to disintegrate ("slough") in the presence of galls. However, individual clones showed great variability in this trait, with some clones even being more likely to slough ungalled ramets than galled ramets. Whether or not galls were present, ramets which were shorter, slower growing, and slower to senesce were more likely to be sloughed. One greenhouse clone was distinguished by a hypersensitive, necrotic reaction to oviposition which showed strong correlation with sloughing. Though there is great variability in response, overall, the presence of galls causes more sloughing and further study is needed to see if this impacts the long-term fitness of the clone. We speculate that plant hormones may play a role in the occurrence of sloughing.
10.2307/2484844|In the southern Appalachian Mountains of North Carolina, the high elevation moss Leptodontium viticulosoides (P. Beauv.) Wijk & Marg. is apparently spreading into new habitats affected by the continued dispersal of the Balsam Woolly Aphid, Chermes piceae Ratz., in the Spruce-Fir forest. This is true at least at Waterrock Knob, a mountain in Jackson County.
10.2307/2484902|Artificial crosses between Ipomoea lacunosa and I. trichocarpa produced intermediates that resembled plants found growing wild. Back-crossing of the artificial hybrids yielded an array of progeny that was also similar to wild plants. The hypothesis is presented that I. lacunosa and I. trichocarpa have been experiencing introgressive hybridization.
10.2307/2482411|Two species of tobacco, Nicotiana bigelovii and N. glauca, and their hybrid were exposed to various dose rates of chronic gamma irradiation (37.5-375 r per day) from cobalt-60 for periods up to 39 days. Within a species, chromosomal aberration frequency at a particular dose rate showed no significant increase in successive collections from 15 to 39 days of exposure. Differences in the amount of chromosomal aberration between stocks were evident for plants at the various dose rates as well as in the controls (unirradiated). Bridges and fragments were found to occur with a 38 per cent frequency in the hybrid controls, but none were found in the control samples of the parental stocks. Under chronic irradiation, N. glauca was the least sensitive, N. bigelovii was next, and the hybrid was the most sensitive. In the hybrid, aberrations may differ in mode of origin from those of the two parental species, as indicated by a disparity in the fragment to bridge ratio and by the presence of configurations suggesting subchromatid exchange. Computations based upon the total percentage aberration at each dose rate for the three plant stocks were used to calculate regression lines The slope of the regression line for N. glauca (2x = 24) was 0.087 aberrations per 100 cells per r; for N. bigelovii (4x = 48), 0.168; and for N. bigelovii x N. glauca (3x = 36), 0.326. The hybrid, then did not fall between the two parents as might be expected but had an increased aberration rate about four times that of N. glauca and about twice the expected. Since the increase in radiation sensitivity of the hybrid cannot be explained on the basis of relative chromosome number, it is concluded that its increased radiosensitivity must be related to the inherent nature of its genetic instability or to its reduced growth rate.
10.2307/2997024|Pollinator limitation of percent fruit production and mean seeds/fruit was examined in two populations of Agalinis strictifolia during 1984, 1985, and 1987. Tests for a significant redistribution of resources caused by hand-pollination of a single flower per plant, that could produce a false, positive test for pollinator limitation, were negative. No portion of the flowering season was consistently limited by pollinators. Pollinator limitation in percent fruit production was never detected for either population. Limitation was detected for mean seeds/fruit in one population during one year. Seeds/fruit was limited four out of five times tested during the one flowering season and these periods of time accounted for 60 percent of the total flowers available. Agalinis strictifolia is a hemiparasitic annual and significant reductions in seed production, although rare, could affect future population size and persistence.
10.2307/2484642|Mature sporangia of Physarum polycephalum were studied with the transmission electron microscope. Typically, the capillitium was evident as a bilayered tube. The outer tube layer is delicate, inconspicuous, and sometimes completely or partially absent. The inner layer is thicker than the outer one and comprised of an amorphous, dense material. Internally, the capillitium is filled either with a granular to amorphous material or it is devoid of internal contents excepting residual membrane-delimited bodies. The spores contain the usual complement of organelles, which are embedded in a dense cytoplasm and surrounded by a bilayered wall.
10.2307/2996943|Vegetation change was documented along three permanent transects after nearly three decades of beaver flooding. The anchored forested wetland community was killed and replaced by a minerotrophic fen vegetation, whereas minimal change occurred within the tall scrub-shrub, dwarf shrub and open meadow communities. Along all transects, tree cover was reduced two- to five-fold, whereas low heath shrub cover, especially Chamaedaphne calyculata and Kalmia angustifolia, increased. Herbaceous cover, primarily sedges, increased, especially in the newly created fen. Within the floating mat communities the evergreen ericaceous shrubs and scattered stunted Picea mariana and Larix laricina persisted as did the herbaceous bog flora. Species richness showed little change from 1960-1988 although there was a floristic shift toward more hydric species. Flooding differentially affected the vegetation pattern favoring more minerotrophic species in some areas, but did not appear to threaten the typical bog flora. Historically, beaver and other environmental influences have probably modified the vegetation development over millenia, including prolonged quiescent periods interrupted by periodic disturbances as documented in this study. For most peatlands this dynamic model appears more realistic than any orderly successional dogma.
10.2307/2481813|1. The effects of the two algae, Chlamydomonas chlamydogama Bold and Haematococcus pluvialis Flotow em. Wille, on the growth of each other in mixed cultures varied with the conditions under which they were grown. When they were grown together for 2 weeks in an inorganic medium and in this medium supplemented with dextrose neither exerted a significant effect on the growth of the other. After 3 weeks of incubation the growth of each was stimulated by the other in these media. Mutual inhibition of the algae was observed in the more complex media when they were grown together for 2 weeks. 2. Dextrose stimulated the growth of H. pluvialis as did some substance or substances present in the dialysates of cultures of C. chlamydogama. A slight inhibition of the growth of C. chlamydogama was caused by the dialysates of cultures of H. pluvialis. 3. The effect of the "unknown bacterium" on the growth of the two algae varied with the media, the size and condition of the inocula, and with the alga concerned. The "unknown bacterium" stimulated the growth of Haematococcus in the dextrose medium, but inhibited that of Chlamydomonas unless vitamin B
10.2307/2482234|1. Each of 41 species or strains of Polyporus and Fomes selected because of their poor growth on a basal medium of mineral salts, dextrose and asparagine was found to be heterotrophic for thiamine. None required thiamine as such. Thiamine could be replaced by pyrimidine or by a mixture of the thiazole and pyrimidine components of thiamine. Polyporus texanus was found to be heterotrophic for both thiamine and pantothenic acid. Pantothenic acid could be replaced by butyrolactone but larger amounts were required; -alanine was ineffective alone or with the lactone. Polyporus immitus was heterotrophic for thiamine and adenine. 2. About half of the species investigated grew better on 2 per cent malt extract than on the basal medium containing mineral salts, 5 per cent dextrose, asparagine, casein hydrolysate and B vitamins. The growth of some species was improved by reducing the dextrose to 1 or 2 per cent and substituting casein hydrolysate for asparagine. The "malt effect" for Polyporus immitus could be accounted for by the adenine supplied by the malt extract. The growth of some of the species (P. schweinitzii for example), was improved by the addition of oleic acid. However, malt extract appeared to furnish some of the species growth supplements not included in mineral salts, dextrose, casein hydrolysate, eight B vitamins, purine and pyrimidine bases, tryptophane, cystine, hemin, choline, hydrolyzed nucleic acid, ribose or oleic acid. The "malt factor" for these species was not identified.
10.2307/2482159|1. The chromosome number of seventeen species of Strophanthus were studied and found to be 2n = 20 in all cases.
10.2307/2482259|1. The pattern of differential segments produced as a result of cold treatment for 96 hours is different in each of the six species included in this study. 2. The total length of the diploid chromosome set increases after cold treatment in each of the six species. The increase ranges from 22.8 microns in T. luteum (Muhl.) Harbison to 41.8 microns in T. decumbens Harbison.
10.2307/2996994|The parasitic plant Helosis cayennensis (Swartz) Sprengel is composed of a sub-spherical tuber (diameter up to 6 cm) and slender runners (1-7 mm in diameter) which bear inflorescences. The tuber has no typical stem or root organization, no apical meristem or leaf primordia, no typical epidermis or stomata. The tuber consists of a parenchyma matrix and a network of vascular bundles, with sclereids especially abundant 1 to 2 mm below the tuber surface. At the interface between host root and parasite tuber, H. cayennensis parenchyma cells are large (mean diameter = 41.6  6.5 m [SD]) and cytoplasmic, with large nuclei (mean diameter = 15.2  1.6 m [SD]), which are larger than those of the host (29.1  6.2 m [SD] and 4.5  0.8 m [SD], respectively). Host and parasite vessel members can be distinguished by secondary wall ingrowths: host vessels have smooth secondary walls whereas H. cayennensis vessels have irregular secondary wall ingrowths. Vessel-vessel contact occurs at the host/parasite interface. We detected no parasite sieve plates at the host/parasite interface. Beyond the host/parasite interface, no host tissue can be seen in the parasite portion of the tuber. Vascular bundles branch in all directions in the tuber and undergo secondary growth. Primary xylem vessels have numerous wall ingrowths; secondary xylem vessels have only a few small peg-like ingrowths or have completely smooth walls. Sieve plates are simple, located at the end walls, and compound sieve areas occur on the side walls of the sieve tube members. There are many densely cytoplasmic cells, with large nuclei (mean diameter = 22.2  3.5 m [SD]), around or within young vascular bundles. Tubers grow by the proliferation of parenchyma cells, which occurs diffusely throughout the ground matrix. Tubers produce runners that are cylindrical and branch irregularly. Runner primordia, initiated either in tubers or in older runners, are rootlike but with no root cap and no endodermis. There is no volva or significant rupturing of the parental tuber or runner. The runner apical meristem consists of a tunica of 3-6 layers of tannin-filled cells surrounding a corpus of tannin-free cells. The vascular tissue of runners is a eustele of 5-7 bundles. The pith of the runner is composed of fiber-like sclereids, and medullary rays differentiate into a sclerenchyma bridge between the pith and the brachysclereid bundle caps. The highly reduced vegetative body, which is a mixture of various characters of different organs, is interpreted in terms of homeotic morphogenesis.
10.2307/2482817|1. The embryo of Jouvea pilosa (Presl) Scribn. has been found to possess features similar to those previously described in Streptochaeta spicata Schrad. ex Nees, and these features lend additional support to the view that the coleoptile in the grass embryo is the homologue of a leaf. 2. In both these species the coleoptile is not the usual closed structure, but the margins are free and overlap. 3. A median vascular bundle is present also which, while rather weak in Streptochaeta, is strongly developed in Jouvea. 4. On the basis of embryo structure, the affinities of Jouvea appear to be with the Panicoideae. This suggestion is in agreement with the view of Prat, who studied the anatomy of the leaf and epidermis. 5. The embryos of Jouvea, Distichlis, and Uniola are similar, which indicates that these genera are related, as suggested by Weatherwax. To place them in the Festucoideae, however, is not consistent with either the findings of Prat or the results of the present study.
10.2307/2482546|The experiments reported here indicate that the direction of growth in Hydrodictyon reticulatum is determined by pressure, and that no growth occurs without pressure. Once the direction of growth has been determined, it continues in the same direction when all external stimuli are removed. This period of determination is of fairly short duration, approximately one day in length. Two types of asexual swarming were observed in 2 different clones of Hydrodictyon, corresponding to the two conflicting descriptions of the swarming process found in the literature.
10.2307/2482631|1. A 16 month study of the ecology and periodicity of Saxifraga virginiensis in a single colony, possibly a clone, was supplemented with observations, laboratory and greenhouse studies of plants from other areas. 2. Seeds germinated both at 41
10.2307/2484609|Seeds of M. macrocarpa, M. fabaceus, and M. oreganus were studied. Four or six rows of anatropous, bitegmic, crassinucellate and erect ovules are borne on the bifurcated tips of parietal placentae. The ovular supply ramifies in fertilized ovules. The outer integument forms the seed coat which consists of seed epidermis, hypodermis, main sclerenchymatous layer, aerenchyma and chlorenchyma. The cells in the first three zones are thick-walled and sclerotic and form the testa, whereas the aerenchyma and chlorenchyma detach to form the tegmen. The main sclerenchymatous layer composed of osteosclereids is the most characteristic layer of the seed coat in Marah.
10.2307/2996342|The architecture of 48 eastern deciduous trees was examined using five characteristics: leaf size, leaf shape, twig cross-sectional area, leaf number per twig, and branching density. Although there was much intraspecific variability in these characteristics, broadscale interspecific trends were evident. As leaf size increased, the percentage of trees with lobed, and then compound, leaves increased, but simple, unlobed leaves ranged throughout. An allometric series of architectural forms resulted from correlations between three of the variables: as leaf size increased, twig cross-sectional area increased, and branching density decreased. This lends empirical support to "Corner's Rules," first formulated for tropical trees. Shade intolerant trees had more leaves per twig and bore a given total leaf area with fewer first-year shoots than shade tolerant trees. These data suggested that early successional trees bear their photosynthetically active tissue with lower investment in supportive, generally non-photosynthetic, tissue.
10.2307/2483183|Following up, after 6 years, emergence tests on gourds soaked in sea water for varying periods, it was shown that there is no correlation between present viability and length of immersion, or the original percent emergence and retention of viability. While remaining viable under various conditions to permit dispersal and germination in favorable niches, other evidence suggests a recent introduction to the Americas and cautions against the theory of introduction by oceanic drift.
10.2307/2483870|Three forbs, Ambrosia psilostachya, Euphorbia supina, and Helianthus annuus, and three grasses, Aristida oligantha, Bromus japonicus, and Digitaria sanguinalis, all of which are important in the pioneer stages of old-field succession, and which were previously shown to be inhibitory to Rhizobium, were tested to see if they would affect nodulation of heavily inoculated red kidney bean, white clover, and Korean lespedeza. The last named legume, although introduced, is the most important legume in our revegetating old-fields. Root exudates of all six inhibitor species were found to reduce nodule numbers significantly in almost all experiments. A very small amount of decaying material (1g per 454g of soil) of each forb was found to inhibit nodulation of the legumes in most cases. Decaying material of the grasses (same proportions in soil) did not significantly reduce the nodule number in any experiment. In almost all experiments in which the nodule number was significantly reduced, the nodules were small and grey or at least not a bright pink as were the control nodules. A comparison of the hemoglobin content of test nodules and control nodules in one experiment showed a highly significant reduction in the hemoglobin content of the test nodules in addition to the lower nodule count. Based on previous research, this indicated a definite reduction in the nitrogen-fixing capacity of the test nodules. It appears likely, therefore, that the inhibition of nodulation of legumes in old-fields by the six species under test would slow the rate of addition of nitrogen and thus the rate of plant succession, because it was previously demonstrated that the order in which species enter our old-fields is the same as the order based on increasing nitrogen requirements.
10.2307/2483040|Procedures are described for growing excised tissue frommature citrus fruits in vitro which yield greater reproducibility of results than were obtainable by previously described cultural techniques. Modification of the basal nutrient medium allows for the use of three different sources of inorganic nitrogen of which ammonia appears to be the most effectively utilized by the growing tissue.
10.2307/2483250|The chromosome number and karyotype of four species of the liliaceous genus Uvularia, i.e., U. perfoliata L., U. grandifiora Sm. (Section UVULARIA), and U. puberula Michx. and U. sessilifolia L. (Section OAKESIELLA (Small) Wilbur), were shown to be diploid, with 2n=14 chromosomes. Of these Uvularia species, the most specialized karyotype is that of U. puberula. Polyploidy was not involved in the speciation of Uvularia species (the only other species, the rare U. floridana, was not studied). The geographic-ecological patterns of the two species pairs (sections) show strong parallelism, the species in each being more or less allopatric, the isolation barrier that originally led to speciation evidentaly related to the Appalachian Mountains and to the continental conditions in the center of the continent. The western species of each pair always is the more xerophytic and/or more calcophilic. The sequence of events in Uvularia speciation (and probably of many other homoploid groups as well) appears to have been 1) allopatric geographic speciation, 2) eco-physiological adaptation, and eventually 3) the development of sympatry, this made possible by either ecological, or seasonal, or genetic isolation, with all three types developed in Uvularia.
10.2307/2483566|Sorghum halepense L. is sometimes an important species in the early stages of old-field succession, occurring in almost pure stands for a protracted period. The present project was undertaken to obtain evidence concerning the ability of Johnson grass to inhibit certain species of plants with which is is associated in abandoned fields. Seed germination and seedling growth of most species of plants chosen for investigation were inhibited by leaf or rhizome extracts, decaying leaves or rhizomes, and exudates from roots and rhizomes, with the exception of Aristida oligantha Michx. which was inhibited in only a few instances and then mostly slightly. Chlorogenic acid, p-coumaric acid, and p-hydroxybenzaldehyde were the main plant inhibitors present in the leaf and rhizome extracts, p-Hydroxybenzaldehyde was present in the extracts at all sampling periods, chlorogenic acid was more pronounced in the leaf extracts, and p-coumaric acid was present only during the early months of the growing season. Dhurrin, a cyanogenic glucoside of p-hydroxybenzaldehyde, was found to be prominent in the rhizomes and probably serves as a source of p-hydroxybenzaldehyde.
10.2307/2483458|An area of sea cliffs and adjacent uplands 7 km north-northwest of Riverhead, Long Island was studied. These cliffs range in height from 30-35 m above Long Island Sound. While most of these cliffs are very unstable and often nearly devoid of vegetation, the development of a pygmy beech forest (Fagus grandifolia) is possible in areas which remain stable for long periods. Successional stages preceding the development of this community include beachgrass (Ammophila breviligulata), little blue-stem (Andropogon scoparius), beach-heath (Hudsonia tomentosa) and pitch pine (Pinus rigida). Similar vegetational sequences take place on the adjacent uplands after destruction of the vegetation by wind blown sand.
10.2307/2996258|Species-environment relationships were assessed for seventy-five sample plots representative of the vegetation of the bare, rocky summit of Mt. Cardigan, New Hampshire. The resulting data were ordinated by means of reciprocal averaging. Correlation with measured environmental variables and known species preferences suggested the existence of two major environmental gradients or axes, one related to exposure, the other to available soil moisture. Population response patterns, when superimposed on the basic plot or habitat ordination, resulted in the formation of a complex population continuum. Physiognomic considerations indicated the existence of three major community types: a dwarf evergreen shrub community, a deciduous shrub community, and a subalpine spruce-fir forest community. Importance-value curves of the three community types were strongly conditioned by degree of exposure. That of the dwarf evergreen shrub community approximated a geometric series, characteristic of highly stressed environments, while those of the deciduous shrub and spruce-fir communities approached a log-normal distribution. The origin and persistence of these open subalpine communities is discussed with respect to the available documentary evidence.
10.2307/2481844|1. The method of culture of maize endosperm tissue in vitro is described. 2. A report is given of the growth of three strains of the cultured maize endosperm tissue which have been maintained to the present time.
10.2307/2996781|Unlike most forests, Picea rubens-Abies fraseri forests of the Great Smoky Mountains appear to be saturated with nitrogen (N). However, studies of N cycling in these forests have been carried out only in a few small plots. To expand these data to a landscape scale, studies of N dynamics were initiated in 1991 in an unlogged 17.4 ha watershed. An initial phase of these studies, presented here, was the estimation of overstory species composition, biomass, and standing N pools, and their spatial distributions, in that watershed. Picea comprised most live basal area and biomass and showed no obviously unusual mortality or health symptoms. Abies, although formerly abundant, was a minor overstory component, consisting mostly of small individuals at the highest elevations. Most Abies have been killed by an exotic insect pest, Adelges piceae. Biomass of Betula alleghaniensis was high on low-elevation east-facing slopes near streams. Picea contained 71% of the live overstory N, while Abies contained less than 2%. Although Picea foliage comprised only 6% of live biomass, 37% of the total N content was in Picea needles. Overall, some species distributions reflect well-known landscape patterns (e.g., increasing Abies importance with elevation); distributions of other species (e.g., Picea and Betula) reflect smaller-scale topographic and possibly disturbance-oriented patterns. The watershed is large enough to encompass vegetation patterns at several spatial scales, all of which will influence N storage and dynamics.
10.2307/2483627|A 3-day period of unseasonably low temperatures during July 1970 in the central Tennessee cedar glades caused germination of seeds of 17 species of winter annuals, which normally do not germinate until September and October. Summer germination during this abnormally low temperature period supports conclusions from previous laboratory and greenhouse studies that temperature is the overriding factor controlling germination in the field during July and August. Survival in the July-germinating seedlings during the remainder of the summer was zero in most of the species and very low in the others. The failure of these seedlings to survive may indicate that the usual inability of seeds of winter annuals to germinate in summer at the high summer temperatures is a physiological adaptation to the summer-dry habitats of the cedar glade environment.
10.2307/2482321|Pollen analysis of four peat sections from bogs lying between Edmonton and the Rockies in west central Alberta, reveal that lodgepole pine and spruce have been the predominant forest tree species in adjacent areas during the time represented by the sedimentary columns. Since these bogs lie west of the border of the Altamont (Late Wisconsin) moraine and on older Keewatin drift, but probably east of the Late Wisconsin Cordilleran ice border, it is possible that they record pre-Late-Wisconsin forests, that had persisted in an ice-free corridor during this glacial stage. This is consistent with Hulten's theory that continental western American radiants from a Beringia center had migrated southward before the Wisconsin glaciations and persisted ice-free areas close to or within the ice front during at least the Late Wisconsin stage. The postglacial warm, dry interval, evidenced from so many sources, may be slightly recorded by an influx of grasses with some chenopods and composites in the vicinity of the Edson bog, 125 miles west of Edmonton
10.2307/2996988|The amount of land in forest within Tompkins County from the time of European settlement (1790) to the present was determined from land survey records, aerial photographs, and field reconnaissance. Forest cover in Tompkins County dropped from almost 100% in 1790 to 19% by 1900, then increased to 28% by 1938 and over 50% in 1980. Thus over half of the forest in Tompkins County today is post-agricultural. The number, size, shape, and distribution of forest stands within the land-scape changed during a century of conversion of agricultural to forested lands. From 1900 to 1980, there was more forest in the southern part of the county, where the topography is hillier and soils are more acidic. For a portion of the county with extensive clearing for agriculture, the Ludlowville quadrangle, we mapped the outline of all forest stands present in 1900, 1938, and 1980. Post-agricultural forest developed predominantly on the steeper lakeside and stream-side slopes rather than on the flatter uplands. Throughout the period 1900-1980 the majority of the forest stands were quite small, <10 ha in area. The distance from random points in forest to the nearest edge of the stand was often less than 50 m, except for some extensive stands on the slopes in 1980. The development of forest on former agricultural lands has resulted in the coalescence of stands, and the degree of fragmentation and isolation of forest stands in the Ludlowville quadrangle of Tompkins County is much reduced today compared to 1900.
10.2307/2996625|The effect of time of disturbance on species establishment in a first-year oldfield in northeastern Indiana was investigated using a set of replicate 7-m x 7-m subplots within a six-plot randomized complete block design. Each of six subplots was tilled to a depth of 20 cm on October 30, May 1, May 15, June 8, June 23, and July 8. Density and cover data were collected from 15 randomly located 0.5-m x 0.5-m quadrats in each subplot at the peak of the growing season. Principal components analysis (PCA) was used to assess the structure of the data set and two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to test the significance of differences in species abundance within and between replicates and treatments. PCA implicated time of disturbance as the central factor in the determination of community structure and identified Ambrosia artemisiifolia L., Setaria faberii Herrm., Daucus carota L., Solanum carolinense L., and Trifolium pratense L. as the species responsible for most of the variation within the data set. ANOVA confirmed that time of disturbance was a significant factor at the individual species level. Significant between-replicate differences for each species and supplemental seed pool data suggested that site-to-site heterogeneity also played an important role in first-year community development. The study lends strong support to the argument that community structure in early successional oldfields is dependent upon the relationship between the time of disturbance and the germination physiology of the species present in the seed pool.
10.2307/2996841|All growth parameters measured for Baccharis neglecta Britt. (Roosevelt weed) increased as light levels increased with no indication of light saturation. In competition studies with Cynodon dactylon (L.) Pers. (bermuda grass), B. neglecta biomass increased significantly with increased soil resources, but only in monoculture. In all nutrient treatments and proportions when C. dactylon was present, B. neglecta growth was significantly reduced. Cynodon dactylon growth in monoculture also increased significantly with increased soil resources, but its growth was greater when grown with B. neglecta in all nutrient treatments and proportions. In the field, B. neglecta growth was greatest in full sunlight without herbaceous plants and least in full sunlight with herbaceous plants. Results suggest that B. neglecta is a heliophyte or sun plant that would not become established and grow in grasslands except in vegetation gaps and would only occur in old fields after disturbances.
10.2307/2997092|In Victory Basin Bog, Vermont, a distinct zonation of Picea mariana (black spruce) occurs from an adjacent stream to the bog center, typifying a pattern in bogs throughout the boreal region. Height and density of P. mariana decrease toward the bog center, but age does not. The growth rate of P. mariana is greatest near the stream and declines away from it. This gradient in the heights of P. mariana accompanies a decrease in the mineral content of bog water toward the ombrotrophic bog center and an associated gradient in plant community composition. Raised bog development and stream incision appear responsible for the bog's elevated and sloping water table. Well data indicate that the slope and seasonal fluctuations of the water table are greater below the faster growing P. mariana than below the stunted P. mariana and open bog areas. Since a minimum of 5 m of peat underlie the entire study area, tree growth rates cannot be influenced by access to nutrients from the underlying mineral substrate. Peat stratigraphy suggests lateral bog expansion and stream migration since peatland initiation in post-glacial times. The dynamic interaction between peatland and stream processes continues to influence patterns of P. mariana growth and stream migration.
10.2307/2483297|The leaves of Salvia leucophylla, S. mellifera, and S. apiana have been shown to contain the following terpenes: -pinene, camphene, -pinene, cineole, dipentene, and camphor. Such terpenes also are present in the atmosphere above macerated leaves of these species. Camphor and cineole are the most inhibitory materials and the pinenes are the least inhibitory. It is suggested that the inhibition of growth of annual grassland species in and about colonies of Salvia is due to the production of volatile terpenes, especially camphor and cineole.
10.2307/2484937|Populations of Andropogon virginicus L. from an old field and a nearby granite outcrop were examined for possible ecotypic differentiation. No differences were found in gross morphology or anatomy; differences were found in drought tolerance, diffusive resistance of leaves, and in the amount of acid phosphatase enzyme on the root surfaces. The differences were correlated with edaphic differences at the two locations and persisted when the plants were grown in a common environment. The data suggest that A. virginicus from the granite outcrop is genetically different from that of the old field.
10.2307/2484744|Above-ground plant community biomass was determined for 19 representative beaches scattered along the entire California coast. Community biomass was determined indirectly, by extrapolating from cover: weight curves for each species to transect data showing average cover by species for a 40-100-m-wide portion of the beach. Regressions showed that weight was linearly related to cover and was not affected by latitudinal gradients in macroclimate, for most species. Average community biomass was highly variable from beach to beach, reflecting the dominant species. It ranged from 20 to 395 g m
10.2307/2483579|The Mexican species R. brittoniana Leonard (sect. Physiruellia) was successfully crossed with Mexican-Texan R. occidentalis (A. Gray) Tharp and Barkley (sect. Euruellia) to produce vigorous but highly sterile F
10.2307/2484689|Microsporocytes of Vicia faba were treated with Mitomycin C at various stages of meiotic prophase. Analysis of the cells at pachytene, diakinesis, first and second metaphase and anaphase revealed chromosomal configurations which were suggestive of sub-chromatid and chromatid errors. Pachytene loops, inverted chiasmata, and interlocked bivalents, all a concomitance of inversions, were also observed. Variations in the length of some of the fragments generated by first and second anaphase bridges are postulated to have emanated from differential susceptibility of the heterochromatic regions to the chromosome-breaking action of the antibiotic. It is further suggested that different types of reunion following a four-strand sub-chromatid breakage accounted for the observed sub-chromatid and chromatid errors.
10.2307/2996277|To ascertain whether differences existed in the size, growth, biomass allocation patterns, and reproductive output of plants from aerial and subterranean seeds of an amphicarpic annual, data were obtained for plants grown in a greenhouse and arising from the two seed types produced by Cardamine chenopodifolia. In this species, subterranean seeds are 6x as heavy as aerial seeds. Seedlings arising from subterranean seeds had more rapid root elongation and dry weight accumulation, and larger cotyledons and primary leaves than seedlings from aerial seeds. In the greenhouse, mature plants from subterranean seeds flowered earlier, produced more aerial fruits and seeds (but not subterranean fruits and seeds), and allocated more biomass to aerial reproduction than those from aerial seeds. Aerial stems (which bear aerial flowers) comprised the largest component (ca. 73%) of total reproduction for both plant types. Because of the characteristics of plants from subterranean seeds, the production of large subterranean seeds early in ontogeny is probably selectively advantageous in unpredictable habitats, as has been reported for other amphicarpic annuals.
10.2307/2483396|Plasmopara halstedii, the etiological agent of downy mildew of the cultivated sunflower, has a wide host range among wild, annual and perennial species of Helianthus, particularly in their natural habitat in North America. It is not known, however, if the North American Helianthus species as well as the South American perennial species related to Helianthus, neither of which have been found to be infected, are in fact non-susceptible and, therefore, potential parents in breeding sunflowers against the disease. The occurrence of pathogenic races of P. halstedii, the existence of resistant genotypes within the cultivated sunflower, and the development of resistant interspecific hybrid sunflowers are discussed.
10.2307/2482428|1. The two basic "types" which have been proposed and defended for cells in morphologically undifferentiated tissues were first the rhombic dodecahedron (fig. 2) and later the orthic tetrakaidecahedron (fig. 1).2. When orthic tetrakaidecahedra are stacked in regular layers around a central one, the mass assumes the form of a rhombic dodecahedron (figs. 4, 5, 6).3. Each rhomb of the dodecahedron is represented, in the tetrakaidecahedron in the center, by the edge between two hexagonal faces, of which there are twelve (figs. I and 7).4. If a rhombic dodecahedron is circumscribed around a tetrakaidecahedron (figs. 3 and 7), and if each edge of the latter is considered as x (fig 3, AB), then the long diagonal of each rhombic face of the dodecahedron is 3 x (fig. 3, EK), the short diagonal is 2.12 x (fig. 3, JF), and each edge of the dodecahedron is 1.84 x (fig. 3, JE).5. Rhombic dodecahedra formed by aggregation of tetrakaidecahedra have been neither approximated nor achieved in actual tissues studied, but the combination of these two "types" is fundamental to mathematical concepts of aggregation phenomena of cells in tissues.
10.2307/2996306|The effects of burial and soil moisture (seeds were on the surface, or buried at 1 and 5 cm with drained, saturated, or flooded water levels), inundation (Petri dishes, and open and closed jars), and storage (0 and 100% RH), as well as of light and various temperature regimes, were examined. Focus was on ten species (Amaranthus cannabinus (L.) Sauer, Ambrosia trifida L., Bidens laevis (L.) BSP, Impatiens capensis Meerb., Peltandra virginica (L.) Schott & Endl., Phalaris arundinacea L., Pilea pumila (L.) A. Gray, Polygonum arifolium L., Polygonum punctatum Elliott, and Sagittaria latifolia Willd.); five others were also considered to a limited extent (Alisma subcordatum Raf., Carex lurida Wahlenb., Cicuta maculata L., Cuscuta gronovii Willd., and Pontederia cordata L.). Species varied in their germination responses. Those with the same seed bank strategy (transient or persistent) had different dormancy mechanisms although seeds with persistent seed banks required temperatures >5<sup></sup>C and germination for most was enhanced by light. Responses to burial and moisture level showed that larger seeded species were able to germinate from greater depth, but germination was greater in drained samples. There were three types of responses to inundation: (1) requirement for at least modest amounts of oxygen, (2) requirement for hypoxic conditions, and (3) those having good germination regardless of inundation regime. Seed bank losses and relatively short seed bank longevity could be accounted for by germination following afterripening, adverse effects of prolonged inundation, failed germination (e.g., germination at depths that preclude the seedling from reaching the surface), and predation. Differences between the seed characteristics of species of this and those of other wetlands relate to the transient nature of the seed bank and to wetland hydrology. Variable responses to drying have implications for wetland restoration projects.
10.2307/2484656|A callus tissue was derived from excised rhizomatous portions of young seedlings of the orchid Spathoglottis plicata Blume in vitro. Sustained growth of the tissue was obtained on Murashige-Skoog medium supplemented with coconut milk (15%), NAA (6 mg/l), 2,4-D (2 mg/l) and kinetin (2 mg/l). Sequential withdrawal of auxins or their substitution by other auxins, or varying the nutritional parameters in the medium failed to induce either shoot buds or protocorms, but always elicited a rhizogenetic response.
10.2307/2484924|Some ecological differences in reproduction of the two subgenera of Pinus are contrasted. Seedling pines of the subgenus Haploxylon are found on sites which are relatively wet and are subjected to fewer and less drastic environmental fluctuations than are those sites upon which seedling pines of the subgenus Diploxylon are found. These differences in microsite utilization are reflected in the reproductive strategies of the members of the two subgenera. Diploxylon pines reproduce at earlier ages and at more frequent intervals than do Haploxylon pines. In addition Diploxylon species produce smaller seeds than do Haploxylon pines. It is suggested that the first two factors, ages of first reproduction and intervals between large seed crops, increase the potential of Diploxylon pines to utilize successfully microsites which are potentially more variable in their moisture availability and might provide fatal conditions for seedlings and other pre-reproductive age classes while the third factor, smaller seed sizes, increases the chances of Diploxylon species successfully colonizing "safer" sites. Finally, the differences in seed sizes within a subgenus do not arise as a result of differences in the early ages of reproductive maturity but rather are correlated with factors which may directly reflect the environmental conditions that each species experiences.
10.2307/2483498|By means of fluorescent microscopy and aniline blue staining, sieve plates may be seen in Tristicha and Marathrum. With standard light microscopy, sieve plates are also visible when the sections affixed to the slides are rehydrated. Photographs of phloem showing sieve plates are provided for the first time in the Podostemaceae.
10.2307/2996852|Water relations of foliage and subtending twigs were investigated during the growing season in rosebay rhododendron (Rhododendron maximum) and mountain laurel (Kalmia latifolia) to compare two evergreen schlerophyllous species with segregated ecological distributions. Osmotic potential at full turgor of both species declined from the time of new foliage growth through the remainder of the growing season. However, no differences were observed between the species. The bulk modulus of elasticity increased greatly (reduced elasticity) subsequent to new foliage growth in Kalmia but only slightly in Rhododendron. Due, in part, to differences in elasticity, osmotic potential and relative water content at the turgor loss point were considerably higher in Kalmia. While these differences indicate that some variability in tissue water relations may occur among species of this life form, it is not clear that they account for the ecological segregation of Kalmia and Rhododendron.
10.2307/2996725|The effects of varying the number of fires in a fixed time period were examined in second growth pineland near Tallahassee, Florida. Species richness was higher in plots burned between one and 13 times in 13 years than in plots not burned. Comparison of plots by time since last fire showed lowest richness in plots with greatest time since last fire. Ordination of the plots showed divergence in species composition of the most frequently burned plots. Over half of the species occurring in five or more plots showed a statistically significant association with plots in either high, low, or no fire groups. Most of these species were most common in plots burned with high frequency. More non-woody than woody species showed an association with treatment frequency.
10.2307/2996859|Field observations on growth form and laboratory observations on structure were made of the root systems of Piper auritum L. (Piperaceae), a small weedy tree colonizing disturbed sites in humid lowland areas of the neotropics. Adventitious roots (prop roots, stilt roots) of P. auritum are dimorphic, with differences in form, structure, and orientation between above-ground and subterranean portions. Above ground the root is wide (mean diameter 1.78 cm), unbranched, and has numerous protoxylem poles (x = 42) around a broad pith (mean diameter 0.72 cm). Upon penetration of the soil the root forms several branch roots, some of which grow vertically and provide anchorage and absorption, while others grow horizontally and produce new shoots (root suckers). Both subterranean types differ from the above-ground root and from each other. Horizontal roots are narrowest (1.01 cm diameter) with the fewest protoxylem poles (9) around the narrowest pith (0.04 cm diameter). Vertical subterranean roots have intermediate values (root diameter 1.06 cm; 22 protoxylem poles; pith diameter 0.44 cm). Vessels are on average wider in the xylem of the horizontal root portions (36 to 84 m radius) than in either above-ground or vertical subterranean parts of the roots (24 to 60 m and 36 to 72 m in radius, respectively), and a greater percentage of total conduction is performed by wider vessel size classes in horizontal sections. Fast-growing vegetative shoots produced from the horizontal portions of the roots result in large stands of P. auritum and allow the species to persist in successional areas no longer favorable for germination of its light-dependent seeds.
10.2307/2996141|Ovule ontogeny and seed anatomy-morphology in Argemone aurantiaca G. B. Ownbey were investigated. Ovule primordia are dizonate. The inner integument is initiated before the outer integument. The mature ovule is anatropous, bitegmic, and crassinucellate Megasporogenesis and megagametogenesis follow a Polygonum-type of development. Antipodals are enlarged and persistent At maturity the tegmen is composed of one cell layer and the testa is composed of three cell layers The mature seed is covered by a thick cuticle. Endosperm is initially free-nuclear, but becomes cellular with numerous oil globules. The linear embryo produces two cotyledons.
10.2307/2483822|Three ericaceous shrubs, Gaylussacia baccata, Vaccinium angustifolium and V. vacillans commonly occur as a synusia in the pine barrens of central Long Island, N. Y. and in other, similar habitats of the northeastern United States. This synusia is usually found on acid, well-drained soils and on sites with relatively high illumination. All of the species are rhizomatous and form extensive clones. Reproduction is almost entirely vegetative although flowers and fruits are often abundant. A number of environmental relationships of the synusia are discussed. Perhaps the most notable is the ability of the shrub species to survive, and in fact, thrive in environments subject to the frequent burning. Differences in fire response, morphology and range of these species which appear to have similar ecologies suggest that inter-specific relationships may play an important role in the distribution and composition of the synusia.
10.2307/2484960|The cambial structure of four woody species of the Ranalian complex has been studied with a special reference to the ratio of ray and fusiform initials. It is found that they occur in a definite proportion in each species. The fusiform cells in the cambial zone constitute about 25% in Dillenia indica, 65% in Annona squamosa, 70% in Artabotrys odoratissimus and 80% in Polyalthia longifolia.
10.2307/2484427|It previously has been shown that high temperatures promote and low temperatures inhibit afterripening in seeds of winter annuals in a state of primary dormancy. Furthermore, low winter temperatures induce ungerminated, nondormant seeds into secondary dormancy. Data presented in this paper show that in the winter annual Phacelia dubia var. dubia seeds induced into secondary dormancy by low winter temperatures also require high temperatures to afterripen. In nature seeds in secondary dormancy afterripen during spring and summer.
10.2307/2484305|Arenaria alabamensis comb. nov. (Caryophyllaceae) is described from granite outcrops outside Alabama for the first time. The species appears to be a smaller-flowered, largely inbreeding derivative of A. uniflora. It is suggested that the granite outcrop species of Arenaria show stronger affinities with the Arcto-Tertiary geoflora than with the Madro-Tertiary.
10.2307/2996834|Zamia pumila L. (Cycadales) is a long-lived dioecious plant with a herb-like habit common in the fire-climax pine forests of southeast Florida. To evaluate sex-related differences in its reproductive strategy, frequency and size of reproductive effort were monitored for males and females in a population over an 8-year period after fire. Eighty-seven percent of the non-seedling plants in the population coned during the study period, revealing a sex ratio of 1.8 male/female. Coning sex ratios for each season varied from 2.7-12 male/female. On average males coned once every 1.6 years and produced a mean of 1.45 cones/yr while females coned once every 3.7 yr with a mean of 0.35 cones/yr. Energy investment in reproduction over the entire study period, however, was on average 3.4 times greater for females. Leaf and cone production declined by the 8th and 9th year after fire, as shrubs recovering from fire damage shaded the habitat. Reproduction in Z. pumila is compared with that in other iteroparous dioecious plants and animals in which there is divergent selection between the sexes for reproductive success.
10.2307/2483417|Phycolepidozia exigua. gen. et. sp. n., is described and placed in a new family, Phycolepidoziaceae, whose affinity appears to be with the Lepidoziaceae and/or Cephaloziaceae. The gametophytic reduction of the genus is carried to the point where lateral leaves, ?er se, no longer go through an initial bilobed ontogenetic stage (in which the genus is unique in the Jungermanniales) but stop their development at the point where they have grown into 2-celled papillae although the lateral merophytes undergo the usual longitudinal division into dorsal and ventral derivatives. In Phycolepidozia the papilliform leaf is clearly inserted at the anterior margin of the dorsal derivative, and the ventral derivative fails to contribute anything to the leaf formation. The sporophyte seta, formed of 4 large epidermal plus 4 minute internal cell rows, is matched only in the otherwise quite different family Cephaloziellaceae. The phenomenally reduced leaves of Phycolepidozia-reduced to a greater extent than in Zoopsis and Pteropsiella-led to an investigation of the significance of the slime papillae. It is concluded that the leaflike organs of Hepaticae probably evolved several times separately from the slime papillae, and that the initial ancestral gametophyte was probably a multiseriate, branching, naked axis with both prostrate and erect branches, whose shoot-apices were protected by slime papillae. Sterile axes of Phycolepidozia are visualized as forming the nearest model for such an ancestral type extant, even though they clearly have reached this condition by reduction.
10.2307/2996812|The elliptic leaves of Caribbean cycads (Zamia L.) exhibit variability in size and shape that is related to geographic location and microclimate. Although leaflet morphology, especially leaflet width, has played a central role in Zamia taxonomy, no detailed analysis of variation in leaflet morphology within individual leaves exists in the literature. Leaves were collected from three Zamia populations in Puerto Rico, representing two putative species, and from five Zamia populations in Florida, representing two putative species and two microclimates (sun and shade). A single leaf was collected from each plant, with a total of ten plants sampled in each population. Each leaf was divided into five zones, and approximately equal numbers of leaflets were assigned to each zone of the leaf. The variables of leaflet length, leaflet width, and leaflet length: width ratio were analyzed nonparametrically for differences among zones. Significant effects of position within the leaf on leaflet morphology were found in the majority of the analyses. In addition, the patterns of the position effect varied among the populations, with similar patterns found among putative species. In only one population out of eight did the longest and widest leaflets occur in the middle zone of the leaf. Consequently, the use of only middle leaflets in comparisons among populations or for taxonomic purposes is ill-advised. The roles of environmental and genetic factors in determining variation in leaflet morphology within a leaf are discussed.
10.2307/2996398|Two ecologically similar palmettos, Serenoa repens and Sabal etonia, co-occur on the Florida peninsula's central and Atlantic coast ridges. Inasmuch as they share many characteristics of growth form, reproductive strategies, responses to fire, and habitat occurrence, these palmettos may be able to coexist because they occur in different microhabitats or plant neighborhoods. Serenoa reached its highest dominance in poorly drained flatwoods and its lowest dominance in well-drained sandhills. Sabal, on the other hand, was uncommon in flatwoods but exhibited its highest dominance in well-drained sand pine scrub and sandhills. Nearest-neighbor and principal components analyses showed that Sabal neighborhoods potentially had more competitive interference and in flatwoods included more oak (Quercus geminata) and fetterbush (Lyonia lucida) than Serenoa neighborhoods. These differences in species microsite-distribution patterns suggest spatial displacement of palmettos based at least partially on competitive interference and adaptations to edaphic conditions. Local populations had different growth forms such that palmettos growing in flatwoods communities lived in more closely spaced but lower canopied neighborhoods and bore more leaves than palmettos growing in scrubby flatwoods. Palmetto leaf numbers of both species were higher in recently burned sites but Serenoa maintained more leaves than Sabal under all post-bum conditions. Measures of plant vigor and performance (e.g., crown size, biomass) did not exhibit the trends expected based on palmetto abundance patterns; rather, local effects (e.g., overstory canopy coverage) may more strongly affect performance. Seedling and adult palmettos had very low mortality rates and slow growth rates suggesting that extremely long-lived individuals (500 yr old palmettos may not be uncommon) compose populations that have remarkably low turnover of genotypes-a likely consequence of adaptation to long-lived, stable environments. These palmettos are vulnerable to human-caused disturbance because of their limited ability to quickly recolonize former habitats.
10.2307/2483930|Measurements were made, at a variety of light intensities, of the photosynthetic rates of yellow, light green, and dark green soybean plants, whose content of chloroplast pigments was known from an earlier study. The maximal photosynthetic rate obtained for the yellow plants was 2 20 mg. CO
10.2307/2481849|1. An uncommon growth abnormality of spinach was induced experimentally by sprays and vapors of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. 2. The term "funnel-leaf" has been applied to the abnormality because of the fusion of the margins of the petiole and a portion of the lamina of one or more leaves forming a funnel-shaped growth encasing the apical bud. No other growth irregularity is produced. 3. Funnel-leaf has been observed in a commercial spinach field and attributed to the emanations of 2,4-D or a similar compound.
10.2307/2996728|Interspecific competition between Paspalum plicatulum Michx. (brownseed paspalum) and Schizachyrium scoparium (Michx.) Nash (little bluestem), two C
10.2307/2482839|1. New stations for Geocarpon minimum were found by the authors in Polk and Greene counties, Missouri, on May 3, 1958, and fulfilled an earlier prediction made that intensive collecting of sandstone areas in very early spring would reveal new localities between the two previous ones known from Jasper and St. Clair counties. 2. The areas of occurrence in Missouri are all on sandstone formations of Upper Mississippian age belonging to the Chester series and near the contact zone of the Upper Mississippian with either the Lower Pennsylvanian (Cherokee) or Upper Ordovician (Jefferson City) strata. 3. Other localities in Missouri of similar topographic and lithologic expression which failed to produce Geocarpon indicate spotty and chance distribution in the geographical range. 4. Geocarpon minimum was found in Arkansas on April 11, 1958, at two localities (Bradley and Drew counties) by Dr. Dwight Moore, thus extending the known geographical range of the species southeastward approximately three hundred miles. 5. The greater ecological limits, both in geological horizons and soil expressions, suggest broader geographical range possibilities into adjacent sections of neighboring states. 6. Based on recent studies of living plants, some modifications and new details concerning leaf and seed morphology are presented.
10.2307/2997030|The vegetation of fifteen stands of dry evergreen forest was sampled by quadrats and the data analyzed by dominance-type classification and Detrended Correspondence Analysis. Coastal stands are generally at lower elevations and have fewer sinkholes than interior stands. They also are less dense, less rich in species, lower in species diversity, and have more trees with a low-branched or multiple-stemmed growth form. Coastal stands were divided into two communities: METOPIUM-COCCOLOBA (COASTAL) and COCCOLOBA and interior stands into three: METOPIUM-COCCOLOBA (INTERIOR), METOPIUM-EXOTHEA, and EXOTHEA-BURSERA-METOPIUM. Within the Bahamas, the dry evergreen forest of North Andros is more similar to vegetation which occurs on the northern and central islands than to scrubbier vegetation on the southern islands. Outside the Bahamas, it appears similar to the tropical hardwood hammocks of southern Florida and some communities on limestone and coral soils in the Greater Antilles.
10.2307/2482183|1. From this study one can conclude that pollen from Erica cinerea, Erica umbellata, and Calluna vulgaris, together with that of Rubus spp. and Echium plantagineum may be considered typical of Galician honeys. 2. The pollen of Castanea vulgaris is characteristic of honeys from the mountainous region of Eastern Galicia. 3. The pollen of Ulex europeus, 1 Brassica oleracea, Trifolium repens and Zea Mays though found in many samples of Galician honeys, cannot be considered typical of Galician honeys. 4. Pollen from fruit trees is likewise not typical of Galician honeys. 5. The infrequent occurrence of the pollen of members of the Labiatae is in marked contrast to the condition as it exists in other Spanish honeys.
10.2307/2484813|Investigations of variation in forty natural populations from different geographical areas suggest that Ruellia caroliniensis reproduces both autogamously and allogamously. There appears to be a shift from allogamous to autogamous reproduction from south to north within the species' range. Populations from southern peninsular Florida exhibited the most intrapopulational variation, while individuals from the central portion of the range were the largest and most robust specimens. Although hybridization and introgression have played a role in influencing variation within the species, the varied breeding systems have been the most significant cause of taxonomic difficulty with the species. The species is described as a polymorphic, amphimictic series of populations. The value of recognizing any subspecific categories in this taxon appears to be negligible, except for the distinctive varieties of southern Florida.
10.2307/2484571|Seedling and sapling growth, natality and mortality were studied over a three year period in forty 5 x 5 m plots in a mature woodland in Hunterdon County, New Jersey dominated by oaks. Year to year seedling populations remained relatively constant for most canopy species with the exception of red oak (Quercus rubra) and black birch (Betula lenta). Survivorship and growth varied greatly according to species. Beech (Fagus grandifolia) was the most persistent species while black birch was the least. Oak species and red maple (Acer rubrum) were intermediate. Sapling survivorship and growth were better than seedling. Population dynamics indicate an essential steady-state in regard to numbers but some qualitative changes are indicated. Black birch does not appear to be capable of regeneration under present conditions.
10.2307/2482149|1. The inhibitory effect of nine different wave lengths of monochromatic light on elongation of the first internode of dark-grown Avena sativa seedlings is reported. The plants were irradiated with short exposures 15 days after the beginning of germination 2. The relationship between energy and inhibition is a complex one, indicating that there are at least two different photosensitive systems, one operating at low energy levels and the other at much higher levels. 3. The action spectrum for ten per cent inhibition, the more light-sensitive phase, shows high effectiveness at 623 m, a steep drop between 620 and 600 m, a shoulder between 570 and 590 m, a minimum at about 500 m, and a rise at 405 m. When the points on this spectrum are compared with the action spectrum reported by Parker, Hendricks, Borthwick and Went for leaf growth stimulation in etiolated peas, the similarities suggest that the same or very similar pigments are functioning in these two species. 4. The action spectrum for 30 per cent inhibition of the Avena internode appears to be very different from that for ten per cent inhibition. It shows a sharp maximum around 589 m, suggesting that an entirely different pigment may be involved in bringing about this less light-sensitive phase of the inhibition. 5. The total amount of incident energy required to give threshold inhibitions using 1- to 15-second exposures (our data) and 100-hour exposures (data of Weintraub et al) is within the same order of magnitude for the wave lengths studied.
10.2307/2483447|Salvia leucophylla, Artemisia californica, and other aromatic shrubs of Southern California contain phytotoxic terpenes which volatilize and inhibit the establishment of seedlings of a wide variety of plants at some distance from the shrubs. Similarly, Adenostema fasciculata and associated shrubs of the California Chaparral produce water-soluble toxins which restrict herbs from the shrub stands. These phenomena strongly indicate that allelopathy is an important influence in the operation of ecological processes and that this factor must be included in any acceptable model of community dynamics. The deterioration of old Salvia stands, apparently by auto-intoxication, suggests that allelopathy could be a significant factor in plant succession in many kinds of vegetation. It is hypothesized that most phytotoxins originate in plants as metabolic by-products whose role is primarily excretory and only secondarily inhibition of neighboring competitors.
10.2307/2996774|White pine (Pinus strobus L.) normally has a single main stem extending the full height of the tree. Multi-stemmed trees however are occassionally formed following destruction of the terminal shoot, usually by stem-boring insects, which releases lateral shoots from apical dominance. With resources being channelled into more than one main 'sink,' multi-stemmed trees may be able to display greater photosynthetic surface area. Thus, we tested whether or not multi-stemmed trees had overcompensated for terminal shoot damage. Based on a survey of mature pine forest in eastern Ontario, Canada, multi-stemmed trees of a given age had shorter heights but greater trunk diameters and greater stem volumes than single-stemmed trees. Hence, multi-stemmed trees appear to be capable of overcompensating for terminal shoot damage, suggesting that there is a potential fitness cost of apical dominance (in terms of biomass production).
10.2307/2483825|The upright, subterranean gametophyte of Schizaea melanesica reaches a maximum length of nearly 1 cm then experiences apical abortion. Peripheral thickening meristematic activity which had been proceeding from the base upward becomes irregular and results in gross surface irregularities. Many thin antheridium-bearing branches originate on the body as superficial buds. Archegonia are straight necked, cone-shaped rigid structures borne on the upper 1/2 or 1/3 of the tuberous body in low areas between folds and ridges of tissue. A few antheridia are produced on old gametophytes near the base. The primary root of the embryo is a determinate structure never growing out of the gametophyte and the first leaf is a late developed organ. Suggestive comparisons with the Ophioglossaceae are made. The new information tends to widen the morphological gap between the Schizaeaceae and Osmundaceae.
10.2307/2484614|Crepidotus decurrens is described as a new species belonging to the section Cinnabarini. This species is related to C. cinnabarinus, but differs in that the gills are close to subdistant, narrow, and decurrent.
10.2307/2484646|Vernalization is not an absolute requirement for flowering in the winter annual Alyssum alyssoides L., but 296 days were required for 100% of the plants (seedlings) placed in a heated greenhouse in late October to flower. On the other hand, 100% of the plants kept in an unheated greenhouse flowered after 197 days. Persistence of this non-drought-tolerant species in its summer-dry habitat is dependent upon a period of vernalization during winter because low temperatures hasten flowering and seed production and allow plants to complete their life cycle before the onset of summer drought.
10.2307/2483404|The pycnia of Ravenelia ajmerensis Sanwal, R. Ornata Sydow and R. sessilis Berkeley are simply, flat, thinly peridiate and subcuticular in position, part of a brachy-type of life cycle pattern.
10.2307/2484905|Soil cores were extracted from Plains and Barrens forest soils, divided into top, middle and lower 7.0 cm subsamples, and examined for total numbers of active mycorrhizal hyphal tips. Plains soils had active mycorrhizal hyphal densities approximately five times greater than Barrens soils. Active hyphal tips were more evenly distributed throughout the soil profile in Plains soils than in Barrens soils. More than 70% of the active hyphae in Barrens soils were found in the top 7.0 cm soil. The observed differences in density and vertical distribution of soil mycorrhizal hyphae between Plains and Barrens forest soils may indicate differences in numbers and distributions of active sites (litter and charcoal) between the sites, and suggest that differences in mineral cycling may exist between Plains and Barrens communities.
10.2307/2484240|The occurrence of hundreds of polster colonies of Drepanocladus berggrenii (C. Jens.) Broth. growing on the ice of Gilkey Glacier is reported. This appears to be the first published account of this arctic species in Alaska. Colonization of mosses on glaciers, although unusual, is considered the earliest stage in a cryosere which regionally terminates in the development of hemlock forest.
10.2307/2996838|A 2.02 ha section of an old woods in the Edmund Niles Huyck Preserve, upstate New York, was mapped in 1978 and remapped in 1986. All individuals >1 m high were located to the nearest 0.1 m. Tsuga canadensis (L.) Carr. made up >59% of total basal area and density both years. Average basal area loss by mortality (0.93%/yr) was less than average growth (1.50%/yr) resulting in increased stand basal area. Especially large increases were measured for Acer saccharum Marsh., A. rubrum L., and Quercus rubra L. Overall and for most species, mortality was very high for small stems, lowest for intermediate-sized stems (11-40 cm dbh), and somewhat higher for the very largest stems. Mortality was aggregated resulting in increasingly regular dispersion patterns of live stems, from 1978 to 1986 and with increasing stem size. Fagus grandifolia Ehrh. continued to decrease due to beech bark disease though at a decreasing rate than earlier, based on past studies in the Huyck Preserve. Maximum Fagus survivorship was for stems 6-10 cm dbh. Where Fagus decreased in importance it was replaced primarily by Tsuga.
10.2307/2481815|1. The nunatak flora of the Juneau Ice Field is composed of 173 species, subspecies, varieties, and forms. There are 42 lichens, 29 bryophytes, and 102 vascular plants. Nunataks are situated in the 700 square mile ice field which is located along the Coast Range northwest of Taku River Valley. Collections were made between 3500 and 6900 feet in elevation. 2. The flora developed largely during the thermal maximum. There is no conclusive evidence which would indicate the existence of unglaciated areas in which plants persisted during Mankato glaciation. If ice did not reach higher than between 5600 and 6000 feet in the central ice field, as has been suggested, only approximately 18 species of vascular plants would have survived. This figure is reached on the basis of collections made between these elevations.
10.2307/2483901|The two-fold origin of the ligneous flora of the South Indian hill stations is reflected in their ecological divergence: (1) the forest species of tropical stock are restricted to the valleys and depressions with higher moisture content and (2) other sites carry savanna, the woody elements of which are of extra-tropical origin, relics of previous cooler climates of the Pleistocene. Whereas the winter cold proves deleterious to the regeneration of the forest species of tropical stock in the open areas, the ligneous species of the savanna of subtropical or temperate stock survive the frost. On the basis of climatic characteristics it is shown that the climate of these hill stations is not temperate as almost invariably described, but of tropical montane type.
10.2307/2995997|The vascular flora of Arabia Mountain, a Georgia granite outcrop, was compiled mostly from field collections made by the author from 1983 to 1986 Two hundred nineteen (219) species, distributed among 71 families, were identified Among those were 8 of the 10 taxa reported by Murdy (1968) to be endemic to southeastern granite outcrops. Southeastern granite outcrops share a common life-form spectrum, which is intermediate, by its proportions of hemicryptophytes and therophytes, to North Carolina Piedmont and Death Valley spectra. This points to the xeric character of the outcrop habitats compared to the surrounding more mesic vegetation matrix in which outcrops are set Arabia Mountain has a rich outcrop flora, and is ecologically representative of southeastern granite outcrops.
10.2307/2483540|The ontogeny and anatomy of the sub-axillary buds on the leaves of Athyrium macraei (H. and G.) Copel. are described. Buds have a superficial origin in either the epidermal or subepidermal regions of the parent leaf, and the vascular system of the bud is continuous with that of the leaf. Particular emphasis is placed on the vascular tissue of the bud and the distinct changes which occur in the stelar pattern of the bud as it ages. As increasing numbers of leaves are produced, the pattern changes from protostele to solenostele, and finally to dictyostele. The nodal pattern also varies within a bud with a unilacunar 1-trace condition characteristic for the first leaf and a unilacunar 2-trace pattern characteristic for all successive leaves. The phylogeny of nodal patterns in ferns is discussed briefly.
10.2307/2483564|Using selested serologicalprecipitin methods and disc electrophoresis we were not able to consistently discriminate between the seed proteins of Magnolia denudata, M. lilifiora and the two designated hybrids M. x Soulangiana, and M. x Soulangiana 'Lennei'. Using two qualitative serological methods, double diffusion and immunoelectrophoresis, no differences in the antigenic components of the globulin seed proteins from the four taxa could be detected. Quantitative serological data obtained from the photronrefiectometer method indicated M. denudata was the most dissimilar of the four taxa, which supports the morphological diagnosis. Disc electrophoretic analysis of seed proteins from the four taxa gave identical patterns. A method combining disc electrophoresis and serology did not detect any differences in the four taxa, but was found to be useful in comparing the antigenic proteins separated by disc electrophoresis. Ali the biochemical data indicated similarity in the seed proteins which would support recent opinions that the cultivated M. denudata and M. lilifiora are mostly self-sterile clones and usually produce only hybrid seeds as a result of intercrossing.
10.2307/2997055|Based on 46 data sets, this paper documents standing dead trees as a proportion of total basal area and density of forest stands in the Northeast. Stands were grouped into six forest cover types ranging from coastal oak and pine types to montane spruce and fir. Over the wide diversity of stand histories, species, and sites studied, the proportion of dead trees was 3-43% of total basal area and 5-36% of total density. Montane spruce-fir stands characteristically had high proportions of standing dead trees, expressed as basal area and density. By quantifying the proportion of dead trees occurring in forests of the Northeast, this study provides a reference for evaluating overall forest vigor or decline.
10.2307/2995916|Forest community types were identified and described on the 78,000 ha Savannah River Plant property, located within the upper Coastal Plain of South Carolina. Stands were separated using a combination of detrended correspondence analysis and cluster analysis Eight hardwood community types were identified along an interpreted environmental gradient correlated with changing topographic position Soil-site conditions ranged from xeric, thick-sand uplands to flooded bottoms Pine stands were classified into twelve community types occurring on all landforms except wet flats and swamps across the environmental gradient Characteristic species were identified through synthesis table construction One to several pine or shade intolerant hardwood community types and a near stable or stable hardwood community type were associated with each site Classifying sites, site types, and identifying associated seral communities is similar to the habitat type approach as used in the western United States The feasibility of using a habitat type approach within the eastern United States despite the absence of climax vegetation is demonstrated.
10.2307/2997194|Fifty-five years of successional changes were studied in a mixed hardwood forest in central Florida that had last burned around 1930. Data collected in 1965 and 1985 from a permanent sampling grid and earlier descriptions of the site were used to assess changes in the forest structure and dynamics. Recruitment of the originally dominant longleaf pine stopped within 15 years after fire suppression and radial growth rates of extant pines decreased by 88% over the 55-year period. The lack of successful pine regeneration and accelerated mortality of established trees resulted in a 33% decline in the frequency of longleaf pine over the last 20 years. Age and size structure was highly skewed toward the largest and oldest classes and a large proportion of trees were standing dead or recently fallen, indicating that the pine population is rapidly senescing. Several hardwood species replaced longleaf pine, and sweetgum became the dominant species by 1965. Between 1965 and 1985, however, further hardwood species turnover and changes in relative abundances occurred. Sweetgum, basket oak, carolina basswood, winged elm, and persimmon all decreased in frequency while eastern hop hornbeam, American hornbeam, hackberry, American elm, and water ash increased. Tree species diversity increased over the 55-year period but remains below the average for southern mixed hardwood forests, suggesting that the forest has not yet reached an equilibrium composition.
10.2307/2484175|Determined
10.2307/2996434|Old fields abandoned for 3-7 yr were sampled in order to characterize the variation in vegetation and soil among and within fields Soil pH, Ca, Mg, water availability, and organic matter were positively correlated with each other and negatively correlated with PO
10.2307/2484940|Phenological spectra of the principal tree species of the streamside forest ecosystem suggest that severe late spring freezes and the first fall frost can markedly affect the progression of phenological events. Fourteen tree species of the streamside forest were observed at weekly intervals in four sites of the Sangamon River valley in east-central Illinois. Phenophase development was compared to photoperiod, an index of heat sum, and accumulated solar energy during the 1973 and 1974 growing seasons. Phenological progression was found to correlate to both progression of heat sum and daylength; however, the occurrence of freezing temperatures strongly affected the regular rate of phenophase development. Variations on phenophase development rate between species and between portions of the flood-induced coenocline are discussed.
10.2307/2483867|Germination of seeds of three winter annuals, Leavenworthia crassa Rollins (Cruciferae), Arenaria patula Michx. (Caryophyllaceae), and Sedum pulchellum Michx. (Crassulaceae) was studied. Germination tests were performed on freshly-harvested and one-, two-, three-, four-, and five-month-old seeds at six constant temperatures ranging from 5 to 30
10.2307/2996451|Gay-lussacia baccata (Wang.) K. Koch (black huckleberry) reproduces vegetatively to form distinct clones. The rate of expansion of G. baccata clones and the effect of this expansion on species richness in a sandplain grassland community were investigated. Expansion rates of G. baccata clones were determined by measuring the diameters of clones on 1975 aerial photographs and in the field in 1990. Data were collected on the cover, maximum height and stem density of G. baccata, as well as the presence of other species, in 0.25 m
10.2307/2484595|Ranunculus spaniophyllus Lourt. (Ranunculaceae) grows in seasonal ponds in the paramo (alpine) zone of the Venezuelan Andes. During the wet season, plants of this species produce long-petioled floating leaves. During the dry season, the ponds dry out, the floating leaves die, and short-petioled rosette leaves are produced. When the plants were artificially flooded during the dry season, the rosette leaves died, and floating leaves were rapidly produced.
10.2307/2996049|Recent field collecting in Venezuela has resulted in the discovery of several new Ericaceae and the recollecting of one rare species. Themistoclesia pariensis Luteyn, Vaccinium steyermarkii Luteyn, and Vaccinium pterocalyx Luteyn are described, illustrated and compared to their nearest relatives.
10.2307/2484060|Surface samples from 52 sites located in different sectors and altitudinal zones between sea level forest and alpine tundra were collected and analyzed for pollen and spores. Resulting spectra are dominated by western hemlock (Tsuga heterophylla) and red alder (Alnus rubra), and spectral prominences are generally consistent with zones where the pollen originates. Extra-zonal pollen, however, makes up a part of the rain in each of the zones. Spectral variation within a zone results from degrees of disturbance caused largely by fire, logging, and clearing and from local over-representation by site-restricted species. For interpretations of north Pacific Pleistocene pollen profiles, modern spectra from both latitudinally distributed coastal sites and altitudinal localities in mountainous areas, such as is represented by the Olympic Peninsula, are of considerable worth.
10.2307/2484066|A new species of Eriogonum (Polygonaceae) is described as E. concinnum from the Nevada Test Site and the adjacent Las Vegas Bombing and Gunnery Range in Nye County. A member of the subgenus Ganysma, the new species is most closely related to E. esmeraldense and E. rubricaule. The new Gilia is a member of the subgenus Giliandra, and most closely related to G. hutchinsiifolia. Named G. nyensis, the new species ranges from central Nye County southward to the Nevada Test Site.
10.2307/2483182|Cultures of Nectria gliocladioides Smalley & Hansen, N. peziza Tode ex Fries, and N. ipomoeae Halsted were grown under different environmental conditions on both natural and synthetic media to determine some of the factors influencing perithecial production by these species in culture. Fruiting time in N. gliocladioides varied greatly, depending upon the medium. It was found that an increase in concentration of glucose, fructose or maltose gave increased numbers of perithecia and shorter fruiting time up to the 2.0% level; beyond this point fruiting decreased. Sucrose gave the same result, but only to the 1.0% level. Previous workers have found contrasting results for other Pyrenomycetes. Light was found to be necessary for fruiting in N. gliocladioides and N. peziza, but not in N. ipomoeae. Temperature also was important, with all three species fruiting best at 24
10.2307/2997095|The relationship between American chestnut (Castanea dentata (Marsh.) Borkh.) pollen frequency in moss polster samples and the percent basal area of chestnut trees in the surrounding canopy is investigated in a mixed-species deciduous woodland being invaded by introduced chestnut in southwestern Wisconsin. The percent of chestnut pollen in moss polsters multiplied by 0.8 estimates the relative proportion of stand basal area for chestnut. Similar regression analysis of chestnut pollen percentages from published New England pollen data and estimations of the proportion of chestnut trees in historic New England forests indicates that chestnut pollen in lake and bog sediments under-represents chestnut percentages in forests and should be multiplied by 3.0 to estimate the relative proportion of stand basal area for chestnut. These differences in chestnut pollen representation may be due to low pollen productivity and the mechanism and timing of pollen dispersal of chestnut as well as differences in the pollen substrate. A test of our factors on pollen data from central Massachusetts provides a realistic simulation of the preblight forest as known from archival data. Our study also demonstrates that aerophilic pollen from a point source different in composition from the surrounding regional forest is abundant only at its origin, while the larger contribution of pollen from a tree species that is dominant in the regional forest may result in its apparent presence beyond its natural range. These situations need to be kept in mind when attempts are made to locate refugia of temperate hardwood taxa in the late-glacial boreal landscape, or to interpret the former distribution of oak chestnut forests in the northeast on the basis of the local abundance of chestnut pollen.
10.2307/2995996|Growth of Hedera helix L "Ivalace" (English ivy) in either a horizontal or vertical orientation was compared over a 7 wk period of the juvenile phase. The relative growth rate (RGR) was the same for plants in either orientation, while the leaf weight ratio (W
10.2307/2484889|A description of the vegetation and a list of species are presented for an area deglaciated about 1880 in Glacier Bay National Monument, Alaska. Three floristically defined plant associations are recognized and discussed with respect to location, extent, and plant assemblages. The association dominated by Elymus arenarius subsp. mollis var. mollis forms a thin ribbon stretching linearly along the crest of the most recently formed beach ridge. Inland from this lies a meadow-like association dominated by Fragaria chiloensis subsp. pacifica. Beyond the beach areas and covering most of Muir Point is a shrub-thicket successional stage dominated by Alnus crispa subsp. sinuata. It is suggested that the extent of the associations may be controlled by the local rate of deposition of new beach material and the local rate of outward expansion of the shrub-thicket association.
10.2307/2482988|1. Chromosome numbers were determined for 149 plants of the genus Gasteria. All were diploids. These include 50 plants resembling G. zeyheri (salm.) Baker from the Bushman's River Poort near Grahamstown, Cape Province, South Africa, eight of G. beckeri from the Kamtra River a few miles away and an unidentified plant growing along the Cradock Road northwest of Grahamstown, all of which were collected in the field. 2. Sixteen plants of Haworthia were diploids including seven of H. reinwardtii (Salm.) Haw. from the Kamtra River bank. One unidentified plant of Astroloba (Apicra) from the Great Fish River in the Eastern Cape Province was also a diploid.
10.2307/2996283|The northern limits of Phoradendron serotinum (Raf.) M. C. Johnston have often been believed to have been determined by cold temperatures. A map of the northern range of the species, from Long Island to Missouri, was constructed from herbarium specimens and published data. The northern limit is correlated with the mean minimum January temperature of -4.5
10.2307/2996280|Transect sampling was used to describe plant density and cone production in a natural population of Zamia pumila L. The study population is located in the limestone hills or "mogotes" of northern Puerto Rico. The sampling was performed during the annual peak in the production of new cones and the maturation of older cones (January, 1982). Densities of both adults and seedlings were highly variable among different sites within the population. Fourteen percent of the adult plants had cones. Sex could only be determined for plants with cones; the sex ratio was significantly biased in favor of females. This bias is the result of the greater longevity of female cones and the small proportion of plants that produce cones each year. Cone size (i.e., number of sporophylls per cone) was positively correlated with plant size (i.e., number of leaves per stem) in males, but no such correlation was found in females. In males, numbers of sporangia per sporophyll were not significantly different among cones collected from one site, but were significantly different among sites within the population. Seed set in mature female cones was low; approximately 8% of the available ovules matured into seeds. Half of the censused plants occurred in clumps or clusters. Each clump of plants appeared to arise from a branched, underground stem although this could not be definitely established for all clumps. Unbranched stems and stems that formed part of a cluster were not significantly different in either number of leaves per stem or proportion of stems with cones.
10.2307/2483096|1. The embryo sac development in Xanthisma texanum was found to be the "Normal type". 2. No abnormal behavior of the supernumerary chromosomes was noted during megasporogenesis and embryo sac formation. 3. It was found that the number of supernumerary chromosomes in the megaspore mother cell is the same as that found in the microspore mother cell. 4. No abnormal behavior of the supernumerary chromosomes was noted during pollen grain mitosis.
10.2307/2483079|1. The pathogenic molds Trichophyton rubrum and Epidermophyton floccosum, and the usually saprophytic forms Penicillium and Pullularia were found growing in and on the cells of a sample of epithelial tissue when thin pieces of the tissue were mounted in Amann's fluid and sealed with lacquer and left for some weeks. 2. The proteinases of the molds caused a partial digestion of the cells, and this was completed gradually over a period of weeks by the lactophenol cotton blue. 3. By watching the dissolution of the epithelial cells it was possible to see that the molds grew either sparsely or profusely in the cells, and that they also grew lengthwise along the exterior of cells. 4. Spore production by conidia was observed by Pullularia, and the formation of a conidiophore and sterigmata by Penicillium was seen Microconidia and macroconidia formed by Trichophyton rubrum were judged to be present. Chlamydospores were seen plainly. 5. This is a simple and satisfactory, although a slow method of observing the relation between the mold and the epidermal tissues of the host.
10.2307/2484258|Surface samples collected at 55 sites located along a 250-km transect between Newport and Prineville, including Marys Peak in the Coast Range, and on Mt. Hood in the Cascades, depict the modern pollen rain from sea level to above timberline in western Oregon. Alder, pine, and grasses are leading components of 14 taxa (mainly at family and genus rank) taken into account. The pollen reflects the vegetation of origin and, except for pine, transport beyond the limits of source vegetation appears to be minimal.
10.2307/2996741|Abundant leaf and branch compressions referable Araucaria bladenensis Berry have been recovered from Late Cretaceous gray mudstones of the Tar Heel Formation along the Tar River in Pitt County, NC. Leaves are up to 21.2 mm long by 9.9 mm wide, flat, sessile, coriaceous, and fusiform, and have entire margins, acute tips, and numerous parallel, unbranched veins. Leaves are borne helically and are imbricate. Cuticle was recovered using 20% CrO
10.2307/2482822|1. Ascobolus stercorarius is heterothallic with compatibility controlled by a single pair of alleles (A,a). 2. The following phases of the nuclear cycle have been ascertained: The fusion nucleus is diploid, and there is no brachymeiosis; in a single apothecium the fusion nuclei of the asci may be of different genotypes; following plasmogamy there is nuclear migration from oidium to trichogyne and into the main cells of the ascogonium. 3. The frequency of post-reduction for three loci has been determined at several temperatures: (a) spore-abortion factor (l)24-25
10.2307/2996970|A greenhouse experiment determined the effects of differential feeding treatments on the growth and reproduction of two North American species of sundew, Drosera filiformis Raf. and D. rotundifolia L. Plants were fed 0, 5, 10, or 20 fruit flies (Drosophila melanogaster) per week for 7 or 8 weeks during the growing season. For both species feeding enhanced growth during the feeding period. In the growing season following the feeding treatments, D. rotundifolia showed carryover of the effect of feeding treatment on growth; D. filiformis did not. Effects of feeding were more pronounced for reproduction than for growth. Plants that had been fed 10 or 20 flies per week produced more flower stalks than unfed plants. Feeding also increased the number of flowers and reproductive dry weight. Effects of feeding treatment on percent reproductive effort were not significant, perhaps because of high variability and limited sample size. Carnivory is of immediate benefit in low-nutrient environments and can also have longer term effects on both growth and reproduction. Controlled experimental feeding may be applied to future questions of carnivorous plant performance under interspecific competition.
10.2307/2484429|Eleven species, two named hybrids and an un-named hybrid are known to be allied with Ipomoea batatas. All but two of these taxa are New World plants, the remaining two are apparently native to the Old World. Species and hybrid populations are characterized.
10.2307/2484708|It has been suggested that heterostyly may serve as an intermediate step in the evolution of dioecism in the angiosperms, but there are few clear-cut examples of this evolutionary pathway. Since Epigaea repens, a dioecious species with stylar polymorphism, is a possible example, its reproductive biology was studied in seven populations in North Carolina. Staminate flowers have long styles, unlobed stigmas, and anthers which produce abundant pollen. Pistillate flowers have significantly shorter styles, well-lobed stigmas, and degenerate (if any) anthers. The few morphologically hermaphroditic individuals were functionally staminate. Sex ratios and the reduction in effective population size due to skewed sex ratios were estimated for each population. The populations were either near 50:50 or significantly pistillate biased. With the exception of stylar polymorphism, E. repens shows no evidence of past heterostyly. Stamen size and pollen tetrad size are not dimorphic. Although the differences in style length are significant between sexes, style lengths are not discrete; variation of style length is continuous and fairly variable. We conclude E. repens has never been heterostylous, dioecism has evolved from hermaphroditism.
10.2307/2484332|Hypomyces polyporinus is separated from other species of Hypomyces by several characteristics, the most distinctive of which is the Sympodiophora anamorph. Its perithecial and ascal development is of the Nectria type and it has a haploid chromosome number of five. The anamorph is described as Sympodiophora polyporicola.
10.2307/2484439|The patterns established by Stix (1960) for the structure of the exine of pollen grains have been very useful in the characterization of the distinct groups of pollen of Compositae. However, the use of light microscopy alone has proved insufficient for the analysis of the complex exine structure of pollen grains of Compositae. By examining fractured grains of members of the tribe Eupatorieae by SEM, it was possible to add new patterns to the classification by Stix, and also to visualize intermediate ones among at least three patterns that occur in this tribe.
10.2307/2997198|Foliar surfaces of Liriodendron tulipifera and the eight native species of Magnolia have been examined using scanning electron microscopy. Liriodendron shows geographical variation in the presence of rounded, domed, or baculate papillae on the abaxial surface but three trichome types are constant throughout its range: cylindrical, fasciculate, and furcellate. Magnolia has three trichome types: cylindrical, filiform, and flagelliform. Interspecific differences in Magnolia are in the extent of vestiture, in trichome complement, and in the development of epicuticular wax. Intraspecific variation is based primarily on extent of vestiture while the trichome complement remains constant within a species.
10.2307/2483353|Several species of Gymnosporangium have been reported to have a uredial stage in the life cycle, G. gaeumannii Zogg is one of these. Recently L. Holm (1968) has questioned the identity of the reported urediospores in this species. He proposes that the 1-celled verrucose spores with evident pores (previously called urediospores) are unicellular teliospores; that the 2-celled spores which look like two of the 1-celled spores joined are bicellular teliospores; that normal 2-celled teliospores are intermixed. This brings about an anomalous situation with three kinds of teliospores. As an alternative interpretation it is suggested the 2-celled verrucose spores may be "bicellular urediospores." Studies of R. S. Peterson support this viewpoint.
10.2307/2484464|The New Jersey Pine Barren Plains are three distinct areas of dwarfed (less than 3 m tall) Pinus rigida-dominated forests. In addition to differing from normal-growth Pine Barrens P. rigida in stature, Plains P. rigida is characterized as having predominantly serotinous cones, precociousness in reproduction and a predominance of vegetative reproduction. The density, age structure, aboveground biomass, and net annual aboveground productivity of Plains P. rigida stems were determined. The mean stem density of 24,900 stems/ha supported a mean aboveground biomass of 9020 kg/ha and had a mean net annual aboveground productivity of 1780 kg/ha/yr. Plains P. rigida had a high proportion of biomass allocated to foliage and current twigs (20.7%) and reproductive structures (6.8%), indicative of stem juvenility and precociousness of reproduction. Age structure of stems indicated that following fire there was an immediate burst of sprout production and that sprout production continued at a relatively high though reduced rate for at least 15 years following the fire. The biomass accumulation ratio of Plains P. rigida indicated that the proportion of standing biomass which is new production each year is approximately twice that reported for normal-growth P. rigida. We feel that the density, age structure, biomass and net annual aboveground productivity characteristic of Plains P. rigida increase their flammability and thereby increase fire frequency and severity in the Plains communities of which they are members.
10.2307/2996727|A study of the floral morphology and anatomy and pollen morphology of the monotypic Chinese genus Saruma was undertaken to provide a more thorough diagnosis of the plant and make comparisons with other members of the Aristolochiaceae. The possession of well-developed petals, a gynoecium of partially separate carpels, follicular fruit, and a monosulcate form of pollen document the primitive position of the genus. Pollen is semitectate and reticulate with a stratified, columellate wall structure. The gynoecium is of particular phylogenetic interest and is composed of a primitive form of three-trace carpel with an elongated, pubescent stigmatic region that extends along the exposed ventral (adaxial) surface. Numerous ovules are borne in two longitudinally oriented, submarginal rows and are vascularized by traces arising from the ventral bundles. The pattern of floral vascularization is similar to other members of the Aristolochiaceae, exhibiting the tendency for extensive fusion of vascular bundles. Unlike other Aristolochiaceae, oil cells and calcium oxalate crystals are absent from floral tissues. Saruma also diverges from the Aristolochiaceae by possessing stamens that become recurved inward at maturity, creating a functionally introrse dehiscence. Reproductive morphology provides compelling evidences for the segregation of Saruma to a distinct subfamily within the Aristolochiaceae. There is little convincing evidence to indicate that Saruma and Asarum share a common ancestry.
10.2307/2482151|1. Cladochytrium setigerum and Septochytrium marilandicum are two new polycentric chytrids which were isolated from soil at Scientist's Cliffs, Calvert County, Maryland, and grown in bits of onion skin. The first of these species is characterized by minute zoospores, a very delicate rhizomycelium and inoperculate zoosporangia which bear numerous simple or branched setae or hair-like appendages, which distinguish it from other species of Cladochytrium. 2. Septochytrium marilandicum, on the other hand, has a very coarse, occasionally septate or trabeculate, rhizomycelium with large, variously-shaped intercalary enlargements and small zoospores which contain numerous granules. Its sporangia are predominantly oval, endoperculate, and usually develop long, straight, curved, coiled or contorted, simple or branched exit tubes for the discharge of its zoospores.
10.2307/2996860|Cuticles of 1-yr-old needles (1984) from Great Basin bristlecone pine trees (Pinus longaeva D. K. Bailey) were examined to determine if cuticle thickness was reduced in these high elevation trees. Chlorophyll content and cuticle thickness were also measured on bristlecone pine needles that had been retained for up to 35 years. The 1984 needle cuticle thickness ranged from 5.0 to 9.0 m (x = 6.5), almost double the thickness of those measured on other timberline conifers, and showed no signs of deterioration with increasing needle age. Total chlorophyll content did not decline with increasing needle age, and needles maturing in 1975 were found to have the highest chlorophyll content of any needles examined. It appears that bristlecone pine functions well under harsh environmental conditions and produces long-lived, functional needles.
10.2307/2996015|A method for studying the growth and development of individual basidiocarps of Psilocybe cubensis was developed Measurements of living mushrooms were put into a computer program which modeled the basidiocarp after common geometric solids Estimates of surface area and volume were determined Both surface area and volume are highly correlated with dry weight These estimates may be useful in measuring growth (non-destructively) and transpiration (water loss per surface area) Translocation of dry matter may also be studied by analysis of derived density values The same measurements can also be used to describe developmental stage (and change in stage) based on the ratio of the cap size to the stipe size
10.2307/2997125|Light and electron microscope studies of the frond (the entire plant body) of Wolffia australiana (Benth.) den Hartog & v. d. Plas showed that the frond was composed of thin walled chlorenchyma with highly vacuolated cells in the ventral bulge and a dorsal epidermal layer with many raised stomata. While there was no aerenchyma there were many intercellular spaces. Chloroplasts, concentrated in upper cells, are lens shaped and contain large amounts of starch. Vegetative reproduction was by budding of new fronds from one basal budding cavity. A budding cavity can have as many as two second generation (daughter) fronds, a third generation (granddaughter) frond and stipes of former second generation fronds present at one time. The dorsal flower cavity had a heart shaped opening and the flower consisted of a pistil and a single stamen with a bilobed anther, each lobe having a red dehiscence line. There was no significant difference in life span or number of fronds produced by the three generations of parent plants studied. Life span was 17  1 days and 11  1 fronds were produced. Frond size at detachment decreased with increased age of the parent plant but all experimental plants continued to grow after detachment although small, late fronds did not grow as large as those produced early in the life of the parent.
10.2307/2483701|A very pale coloured strongly plicate species of Cyathus was found recently on Guadeloupe and is described as C. bulleri sp. nov. It resembles C. berkeleyanus in form but differs clearly from that species in having small spherical spores, a tufted epiphragm and in the grey to pale straw colour. C. bulleri fruits readily on nutrient agar.
10.2307/2997149|1. Flower production (in terms of proportions of plants producing flowers) was determined for five species and two hybrids in the genus Cypripedium in the period 1933 to 1952. Most of the observations were made in Wisconsin. 2. Plants at a single station and at all stations within a limited geographical area behaved uniformly in any one year. 3. Flower production varied greatly from year to year. The variation was apparently due to chance combinations of random environmental factors. High flower production in one species was not correlated with high production in other species. 4. Fruit production similarly varied from year to year. Fruits per flower ranged from 0.22 in Cypripedium candidum to 0.70 in a bog ecotype of Cypripedium pubescens. 5. Limited records for other species of orchids, mostly in the genus Habenaria, indicated the widespread occurrence of similar variations. 6. No correlations existed between average rate of flower production of a species and the relative abundance of that species in the vegetation.
10.2307/2996851|Catastrophic disturbances in the presettlement forests in western New York included 140 km
10.2307/2483459|Draba verna L. is a small annual or winter annual naturalized from Europe. In the central Tennessee cedar glades it is locally abundant in disturbed glades where it behaves as a winter annual. Seeds of this species are dispersed in April, but germination does not occur until September and October. This study investigates the role of innate dormancy, temperature, age, light and darkness and soil moisture in controlling germination of D. verna in nature. A high percentage of freshly-harvested and 1-month-old seeds are dormant, and in nature, germination in late spring apparently is prevented by some internal factor(s). After the seeds have aged for 2 to 3 months, many of them no longer are dormant but require low temperatures (optimum 10-15C), exposure to light and adequate soil moisture for germination. Germination does not occur during summer because temperatures in nature are above those required for germination. Even if the soil is kept continuously moist and seeds are exposed to light, germination will not occur at the high summer temperatures. With the arrival of lower temperatures in the fall (September and October) seeds germinate as soon as soil moisture conditions permit, provided they have received a light stimulus. Thus, in order for germination to occur, seeds require a period of after-ripening, low germination temperature, light exposure and adequate soil moisture. Germination is delayed in nature because these requirements are not fulfilled until autumn. These requirements for germination allow D. verna to "escape" the unfavorable environmental conditions that usually characterize the cedar glade habitat during summer.
10.2307/2484630|The chokeberries are native eastern North American shrubs. Two species (A. arbutifolia and melanocarpa) are fairly distinct. A third entity is intermediate and has variously been considered a species (A. prunifolia), a variety of each of the other two, or a hybrid. Analysis of the morphology, anatomy, chromatography, and pollination of these species and the probability of facultative agamospermy indicate a hybrid origin for the intermediate form. Apomixis appears to be an effective stabilizer of hybridity and enables the hybrid forms not only to perpetuate the genotype but also to expand in distribution beyond the zone of sympatry of the original sexual species. Only the two parental species are recognized formally, and Aronia is kept distinct from Pyrus and Sorbus.
10.2307/2995955|The role of ecological disturbance has received much attention, but most studies consider single rather than multiple types of disturbance. An experiment was conducted to determine whether combinations of disturbances (clipping, trampling and fire) elicit additive responses from Spartina alterniflora Loisel equivalent to the sum of responses to the individual disturbances When combined, clipping and trampling had additive effects on aboveground standing stocks of Spartina, but combinations of fire with clipping or trampling had less effect than predicted Effects on net aboveground primary production (NAPP) differed from effects on standing stocks. Clipping combined with trampling or burning reduced NAPP more than predicted, whereas the effect of burning and trampling on NAPP was additive. Thus, nonadditive responses to multiple disturbances can be identified and quantified, but the nature of the effect may differ with the parameter studied. Understanding such interactions is necessary to predict ecosystem dynamics in response to disturbances
10.2307/2996158|Herbaceous layer nutrient relationships and the response to fire were examined in an oligotrophic Coastal Plain flatwoods ecosystem. Herb layer nutrient concentrations for this system were similar to those reported for herb layer plants of other oligotrophic conifer forests, but much lower than those reported for more eutrophic hardwood forests. Nutrient concentrations were similar in herb layer vegetation growing in upland and lowland areas of the study watershed. Nutrients varied in response to burning, with significant increases for K, P, and Mg, decreases for Ca, and no change for N and total ash content. Potassium and P were the only plant nutrients to be correlated significantly (positively) with extractable amounts in the mineral soil. Plant K was positively correlated with plant P, as were Ca:Mg and N:P. Results of this study support the hypothesis that nutrients limit herb layer production under non-fire conditions in these Coastal Plain flatwoods and that post-fire increases in production in these systems are a result of fire-caused increases in nutrient availability.
10.2307/2482258|1. The features distinguishing Pythium ultimum and P. debaryanum in the formative and mature stages of sexual reproduction are reviewed and illustrated. 2 Oospores of both species become capable of germination after a resting period during which they acquire the structural characters of conidia 3. At temperatures near 10
10.2307/2483975|An investment of three hours' time and $5.00 in parts permits construction of a simple device for quickly folding flattened spines on single-fold University of Southern California-type herbarium covers. This modification increases the capacity of the covers, the lifespan of the specimens, and the ease with which a cover may be reinserted into a case, as well as improving the appearance of the specimen cases.
10.2307/2996921|Phyllitis scolopendrium (L.) Newm. var. americana Fern., American hart's-tongue fern, is federally listed as threatened in the United States. Over 90% (3607) of the P. scolopendrium individuals that occur in the U.S. are located in two counties in central New York. About 78% of the P. scolopendrium in New York occur at Clark Reservation State Park; populations here have been censused nearly every five years since 1916. Other local populations have been censused every five years since at least the mid-1940's. The objectives of this study were to report on long-term population changes at each site and compare population trends to climatic data, especially the Palmer Drought Severity Index, over the same period. More recent, short-term population changes also were compared to locally recorded snow depths. Long-term, large population fluctuations are likely due to historic and climatic events, especially drought. More recently, populations have decreased or declined in vigor in response to the 1988 summer drought and possibly the lack of snow cover during periods of low temperatures in winter, 1988-1989.
10.2307/2996795|Norway maple (Acer platanoides) is invasive within a Fagus grandifolia-Acer saccharum-Quercus spp. forest preserve in New Jersey. To assess the community-level consequences of this invasion, we compared understory composition, richness, and structure beneath canopies of invasive Acer platanoides and of native Acer saccharum and Fagus grandifolia. Understory species richness was significantly lower beneath Acer platanoides and highest beneath Fagus grandifolia. Stem densities were high beneath Acer platanoides but consisted primarily of its own seedlings and saplings. When these Acer platanoides stems were removed from the analysis, there was a trend toward lower stem densities beneath the exotic tree compared with the native canopies. Individual shrub and forb species were too patchy for any canopy affinities to demonstrate significance within this small forest preserve, with two exceptions: Epifagus virginiana, a beech (Fagus) root parasite, was less abundant under Acer platanoides than under either Fagus grandifolia or Acer saccharum; and the shrub Lindera benzoin was less abundant under Acer platanoides and Fagus grandifolia than under Acer saccharum. Among tree seedlings, the exotic Acer platanoides far outnumbered all others, beneath its own canopy and also beneath the two native trees. A surprising paucity of Fagus grandifolia reproduction seems unrelated to the biological invasion. Acer saccharum has some prospects for self-replacement judging from sapling distributions but has sparse reproduction under the other canopy species relative to its exotic congener.
10.2307/2996629|The distribution of Pueraria lobata, Kudzu, in and around New York City was studied, based on observations and reports by field botanists familiar with local flora. Kudzu colonies were reported in all five boroughs of New York City, with the greatest number on Staten Island. Additional stands were seen in neighboring counties: Westchester, Rockland, Nassau and Suffolk; also in Middlesex, Monmouth and Passaic counties in New Jersey; Plymouth, Bristol, Barnstable, and Hampden counties in Massachusetts; and New Haven and Fairfield counties in Connecticut. The possibility of Kudzu becoming a noxious weed displacing local native flora was indicated. The availability of Kudzu tubers and starch for culinary purposes in Oriental food markets and health food stores was also reported.
10.2307/2484612|Cuttings of Bryophyllum calycinum root well in distilled water but poorly, if at all, in New York City tap water. Results of experiments suggest that copper in New York City tap water is the main cause of its toxicity, but other substances including chlorine, fluorine, and volatile or thermolabile materials may play a role.
10.2307/2484816|The chromosome numbers of 6 North American taxa of the genus Tolypella are reported: T. glomerata (n = 33), T. comosa (n = 33), T. intricata (n = 11), T. prolifera (n = 11), T. boldii Sawa (n = 8) and T. canadensis Sawa (n = 8). The numbers n = 33 and n = 8 are new to the genus and the number n = 11 verifies counts previously reported for the genus from North America and India. In comparison with the other charophyte genera, the origin of chromosome numbers and the phylogenetic position of Tolypella are also discussed.
10.2307/2483311|Gas chromatography studies have shown that the air around Salvia leucophylla and S. mellifera (growing either in the field or in the greenhouse) contains two terpenes, apparently cineole and camphor. These terpenes are known to be more toxic than other terpenes that occur in the plants. The several terpenes of S. leucophylla are highly soluble in hard paraffin, suggesting that they are taken into the seedlings they inhibit by solution in the cutin of the mesophyll.
10.2307/2484308|Two different techniques were used to estimate the mean leaf area of 18 temperate species of dicotyledonous trees, shrubs, and vines. Leaf area was calculated by taking 2/3 the product of leaf length and width and by using a dot planimeter. The equality of the two means obtained was tested statistically. Although the equation is used by the majority of researchers, the dot planimeter yielded the best estimate of the population mean leaf area for the majority of species. The areas of small leaves and lobed leaves were hardest to estimate using the equation. The effect of incorrectly estimating leaf area on geometric and arithmetic leaf size distributions was severe. A new method of analysis using both the dot planimeter and the equation is proposed.
10.2307/2482270|1. This research is concerned with the evaluation of the constitution of a plant of the genotype group S
10.2307/2483110|1. Lescuraea, Pseudoleskea and Ptychodium are united and the species are described under the genus name Lescuraea. 2. The eleven species found in Europe and North America are described and illustrated. 3. Two new taxa are described, Lescuraea iliamniana from Iliamna Bay, Alaska and Lescuraea incurvata var. gigantea from the Olympic Mountains in Washington.
10.2307/2483613|The following propositions are examined: 1. Climatic change is still progressing. 2. Continuity of community composition defies classification. 3. Lack of intolerant trees foreshortens succession. 4. Discrepancies of form and function are very frequent. 5. Incidence of hybridization is extremely high. 6. Competing power of exotics is overwhelming. Examples of each of these processes are given, some from field experience and some from the literature. An application of a multidimensional analysis is made to a stand of podocarp forest
10.2307/2996161|Parthenium alpinum (Nutt) T & G. is a diploid (2n = 36), caespitose perennial native to Wyoming and Colorado. It has been reported to grow in soils with a high gypsum content; however, soil samples taken adjacent to plants in natural populations showed no evidence of gypsum. Plants of P. alpinum raised in the greenhouse were self-incompatible, sexual, and highly variable morphologically. Reciprocal crosses between P alpinum and diploid P argentatum Gray (2n = 36) produced viable F
10.2307/2484698|The volume and weight of whole roots, including those of unrecovered portions, may be determined using two formulae. The method has an accuracy of about 90%.
10.2307/2482413|The utilization of 34 nucleic acid derivatives and related compounds, as sole sources of nitrogen for growth, has been studied in Penicillium chrysogenum Q-176. All of the pyramidines tested were either not utilized or proved to be poor sources of nitrogen for growth. The purines adenine, guanine, hypoxanthine, xanthine, and uric acid, as well as allantoin and urea, were excellent nitrogen sources for P. chrysogenum. Methylated purines were not utilized. Both ribonucleic acid and deoxyribonucleic acid are favorable nitrogen sources for P. chrysogenum. Adenine and guanine are better utilized for growth than are adenosine, adenylic acid, guanosine, or guanylic acid. Cytidine, cytidylic acid, uridine and uridylic acid are utilized more efficiently than are cystosine or uracil.
10.2307/2481859|Streptomyces griseus is unable to grow in a medium containing nitrate as the sole source of nitrogen, and glucose as the source of carbon. Under these conditions nitrate is neither reduced nor utilized. A preformed mycelium, grown in a favorable medium, is able to assimilate nitrate and nitrite for growth. Similarly, addition of a small amount of yeast extract to a glucose-nitrate-salts medium enables the organism to reduce and utilize nitrate. Yeast extract is not replaced in this function by casamino acids, DL-aspartic acid, L-tryptophane, or L-proline. Comparison with S. coelicolor suggests that both species need some metabolic factor for the utilization of nitrate. S. coelicolor is able in time to build up a supply of this postulated factor, while S. griseus has an absolute deficiency and will grow in a nitrate medium only with an exogenous supply of the factor.
10.2307/2996794|Effective management of rare species often requires extensive biological knowledge. This study was undertaken to explore microhabitat requirements, describe density-fecundity relationships, and examine the roles of seed and microsite limitation in determining the microdistribution of the federally-threatened plant, Amphianthus pusillus. Microhabitat variables such as soil depth, maximum water depth, soil texture, soil nutrient status, and number and fecundity of Diamorpha smallii plants correlated poorly with Amphianthus density and fecundity. Density-fecundity relationships were explored by thinning dense populations of young Amphianthus. Mean capsule production/plant declined at densities greater than 1.4 plants/10 cm
10.2307/2483974|An actively growing culture of Streptomyces sp. inhibited linear growth of decay fungi, Lenzites saepiaria, L. trabea, Peniophora gigantea, Lentinus lepideus, Polyporus versicolor, and Poria placenta, on both unbuffered malt agar and on malt agar buffered at pH 5 6. Growth of Schizophyllum commune was inhibited only on unbuffered media. On buffered media, none of the decay fungi was inhibited by a cell-fiee filtrate of still cultures of the streptomycete. In soil block decay tests, more wood decay, as measured by weight loss of test blocks, usually resulted from the combined attack of Streptomyces sp. and a decay fungus than from action of the decay fungus alone.
10.2307/2482072|Two plants of smooth bromegrass, 554-39 and 554-49, are reported to be tetraploids with a somatic complement of 28 and a meiotic set of 14 bivalents. Pairing is regular. The possible origins and one of the functions of the tetraploid are discussed.
10.2307/2484357|Vegetation of the proposed Hickory Creek Dry Reservoir of Will County, Illinois is described by an indirect gradient of time and a direct gradient of flooding frequency. Mature uplands are dominated by Acer saccharum with Tilia americana the most common associate. Mature flood-plain regions harbor a Fraxinus pennsylvanica-Tilia americana dominated complex. The first forest stage in the successful sequence of both regions is dominated by Crataegus mollis. Successional development was determined from inter-stand relationships. Stand structure was also influenced by the response of species to an elevational gradient associated with flood frequency. Species richness and species diversity tended to increase with increasing maturity and decreasing flood stress. Mature, unflooded uplands supported the greatest number of species and the greatest species diversity.
10.2307/2996160|Cipura paludosa, a structural hybrid of the Iridaceae with a heteromorphic pair of long chromosomes, has been investigated in vitro. Propagation as well as regeneration of plantlets from callus culture of quartered bulb scale explants has been achieved successfully on MS medium supplemented with specific growth substances. Calluses revealed a high frequency of diploid mitoses from initiation to 40-week-old cultures, though hyperdiploid and hypertetraploid cells were noted as well. Small chromosomes were more susceptible to numerical alteration, while the long heteromorphic pair of chromosomes was stable Regenerated plants revealed a relative karyotypic stability. Almost 80% of the plants were diploid with a parental (2A
10.2307/2482656|1. Cotyledons develop directly from proembryos Foliage leaves originate from shoot apices. The origin of the grass coleoptile directly from the proembryo indicates that the coleoptile is not homologous with a foliage leaf. 2. The epiblast does not develop directly from the proembryo so cannot be homologous with a cotyledon, nor does it develop from the shoot apex so it is not a rudimentary foliage leaf. It does arise late in embryonic development as an outgrowth of the coleorhiza; it should be considered no more than that. 3. The scutellum, coleoptile, mesocotyl, and epiblast are not homologous with foliage leaves and typical internodes, but are structures peculiar to the grass embryo.
10.2307/2484105|The geographical distribution and synonymy of this species in Baja California, Isla de Cedros, and Isla de Guadalupe are reviewed. Juniperus cedrosiana Kellogg and J. cerrosianus Kellogg are considered synonymous with J. californica Carr.
10.2307/2996382|The composition of the spores in the soil of a Delaware River freshwater tidal wetland was determined from samples from 3 sites (high marsh, cattail, and shrub forest) and 4 depths (rain, 0-2 cm, 4-6, and 8-10 cm) maintained in a greenhouse for 2 growing seasons. The spore bank contained 14 mosses, 2 liverworts, 7 ferns, and 1 horsetail. There were significant site, depth, and site-depth interactions for bryophyte cover and species and for total fern and Onoclea sensibilis densities. No one site was consistently ranked highest. However, more species, greater densities, or % cover occurred in surface (0-2 cm) samples. Bryum sp. and Onoclea sensibilis were the most common bryophyte and fern species. Slow germination of spores and/or growth required that samples be monitored for longer periods than for comparable seed bank studies, and may be responsible for the lack of these species on the tidal surfaces from which the soil samples were obtained.
10.2307/2996518|Two distinct types of fossil wood have been discovered at Sand Hill, five miles north of Clinton, in West-central Mississippi (Hinds County). The angiospermous petrifaction is similar to extant Staphylea (Staphyleaceae) wood and is described as a new genus (diagnosis provided) and species, Staphyleoxylon kickapooense. The coniferous silicified wood is described as a new species of Cupressinoxylon, C. resinozonatum, and could be judged to have relationships with either the Podocarpaceae or the group of the Cupressaceae possessing smooth parenchyma walls. The appearance of the sands (and the site as a whole) compares favorably with the Forest Hill Formation outcropping at the Mississippi Petrified Forest (a National Natural Landmark) in adjacent Madison County. Although admittedly debatable, the total evidence (botanical and geological) indicates an early Oligocene, rather than Pleistocene, age for the fossil woods at Sand Hill, and correspondingly for the large sand body itself.
10.2307/2483568|Apical and basal root segments (consisting primarily of meristematic and elongated cells, respectively) of 4-day corn seedlings were tested for various characteristics of active transport, both with and without a preliminary exposure to KCl for 24 hours. The tissue was permitted to absorb Rb+ from a 0.1 mM RbCl solution labelled with
10.2307/2996180|The development of seed coat and pericarp in Eriocaulon truncatum Hamilt. and E. robusto-brownianum Ruhl. is described. The ovules are orthotropous, bitegemic and tenuinu-cellate. Both integuments are 2-layered and the inner alone organizes the micropyle. Although both integuments contribute to the seed coat, the principal contribution is by their inner layers. Cells of the innermost layer of the inner integument accumulate a tannin-like substance. Cells of the innermost layers of both integuments acquire heavy thickenings on their inner tangential walls, and in the outer integument of Eriocaulon robusto-brownianum these thickenings extend to the radial and outer tangential walls as well. The ovary wall is 3-layered. During the development of the fruit wall, the middle layer is crushed and the inner layer develops band-like thickenings. Data available on the seed coat and pericarp structure in the family are evaluated in the light of the present study.
10.2307/2484425|A phosphatic seed cone from a Miocene greensand exposed at Gay Head represents a new fossil species. Considering the size of the fossil cone and its cellular construction, its closest living relatives appear to be members of the subsection Oocarpae, section Pinus, subgenus Pinus. This subsection includes species of the closed cone complex of California as well as similar species of Mexico and Central America. While the climatic preferences of these species varies widely, the absence of harsh winters is common to all of them. Thus, freezing temperatures of any significant duration were most likely absent in the Miocene of Martha's Vineyard.
10.2307/2997054|The phylloplane mycoflora of guava (Psidium guajava L.) was studied from the bud stage to leaf fall stage in summer, rainy and winter seasons using a combination of cultural methods. In general, the number of fungi/cm
10.2307/2484554|Arrow arum is a widely distributed perennial in Delaware River freshwater tidal wetlands. The disjunct distribution of established arrow arum plants and the rather cosmopolitan distribution of seeds within the Hamilton Marsh freshwater tidal wetland suggests that factors which determine where seedlings become established are most important in controlling its population structure. Established plants were absent and seed mortality was high on stream banks, which suggests that water velocity may limit seedling establishment. The almost complete absence of arrow arum from all but the littoral fringe of ponds suggests that light is also an important factor in limiting the establishment of seedlings. Buried seed studies showed that the seeds were distributed throughout the wetland, but that densities were greatest on the high marsh. Allelopathy may be an important factor in controlling seed germination.
10.2307/2996417|Nineteen USDA guayule (Parthenium argentatum Gray) lines were grown for 4 yr under uniform agronomic conditions at the University of California, Riverside Rubber analyses of these plants were carried out to determine the extent of variability in rubber content, if any, between and within these lines. Results indicated a range in rubber content of 3-7% in these lines, which were significantly different at the 5% level of probability. Furthermore, plants in most lines differed from each other at the 1% level of significance, suggesting that they were not uniform breeding lines and require further selection and evaluation. Since these lines are apomictic, if differences prove heritable, plants with high rubber content could be developed into improved breeding lines with a high degree of genetic uniformity and commercial acceptability
10.2307/2484815|The understory vegetation of the streamside forest of Robert Allerton Park, Piatt County, Illinois is described in relation to temporal and elevational gradients of environmental factors. Data on 64 understory species for four sampling periods are related to an ordination of elevation and consequent flood conditions. The ephemeral nature of a number of the species of the upland areas in the elevational gradient resulted in an overlapping temporal variable to the ordination.
10.2307/2484083|Glasshouse experiments with L. loeselii from various locations in Ontario suggest that this species is fully self-compatible and regularly autogamous. Buffeting the flowers with wind did not increase the level of autogamy beyond that observed in undisturbed plants. The incidence of autogamy was increased by a factor of four (from 17-70%) in flowers watered from above with a rain-like spray. This increase results from the action of raindrops striking the raised anther cap, which in turn pushes the pollen masses around the edge of a ridge onto the stigmatic surface. Autogamy may also be increased by the action of a water droplet pulling the pollen masses by cohesion onto the stigmatic surface, either as the droplet flows quickly over the flower, or as it gradually decreases in size by evaporation. Rain and/or condensation, especially in cloud-forests and fog belts may be important in improving the likelihood of autogamy in other orchids.
10.2307/2484059|Scarified seeds of Psoralea subacaulis T. & G. (Leguminosae) were soaked in distilled water for 24 hours at 25
10.2307/2996697|Acalypha australis is reported from twenty-two sites in Kings (Brooklyn), Queens, New York (Manhattan) and Bronx counties, New York. This east Asian species is similar to the native A. rhomboidea, from which it is easily distinguished by the entire to crenate margined, cordate bracts that subtend the pistillate flowers.
10.2307/2482735|1. Four entries of Andropogon distachyus from Mediterranean Africa and Israel were studied cytologically. 2. All had 36 somatic chromosomes, with a basic number of 9. This is the first report of a basic number other than ten for Andropogon. 3. At diakinesis and metaphase I a large number of quadrivalents were found. From the number and frequency of these it was concluded that the species was either an autopolyploid or a segmental allopolyploid. 4. The chromosomes were much larger at metaphase I than in other species of the genus Andropogon. 5. Besides quadrivalents; univalents, bivalents, and trivalents were found at diakinesis and metaphase I, and lagging chromosomes, bridge + fragments, and non-disjunction were seen at anaphase and telophase I. 6. Micronuclei were found at both the dyad and tetrad spore stages, and lagging chromosomes and occasional bridges were seen at anaphase II. 7. Pollen fertility was found to be very low as expected from the cytological irregularities encountered. 8. The possible significance of these cytological conditions and the morphologically distinct Eu-Andropogon are discussed.
10.2307/2484446|Amyema pendulum (Sieb. ex Spreng.) Tiegh. and Amyema quandang (Lindl.) Tiegh. are sympatric and coblooming at a site in the Healesville District of Victoria. Within the combined, sympatric populations there were observed fifteen morphologically intermediate plants, that were collected. These intermediate specimens showed a very low percentage of viable pollen and a total absence of seed. By fluorescence microscopy, it was shown that A. pendulum pollen adhered, germinated and penetrated the stylar tissue of A. quandang gynoecia in over 70% of in vitro matings. Natural interspecific pollination is possible as the two species had overlapping vector spectra and floral phenologies. At least four species of native perching birds in the family Meliphagidae were shown to transport the pollen of both species and to forage for nectar on A. pendulum plants before visiting A. quandang and were thus potential interspecific pollinators. It was concluded that the intermediate specimens were putative hybrids; A. pendulum (
10.2307/2484927|Enzymes were extracted from leaf material of Erigeron canadensis in a mortar and pestle with a Tris-citric acid buffer, pH 8.0 and either polyvinylpyrolidone (PVP), anion exchange resin, or cystein hydrochloride with ascorbic acid. The phenolic content of the extracts and their electrophoretic patterns for acid phosphatase (AP), malic dehydrogenase (MDH) and esterase (Est) were then examined. The samples extracted with resin had the lowest phenolic content and produced the sharpest MDH and AP patterns. The PVP extractions gave the clearest Est resolutions.
10.2307/2484141|The effects of laboratory storage, leaching, stratification, and drying on the germination of isolated seeds, seeds in cut fruit segments, whole fruit segments and indehiscent siliques (pods) of Raphanus raphanistrum L. (wild radish) were examined at alternating temperatures (5/15, 10/20, 15/25, and 20/30 C) in the light and dark. Germination immediately after harvest (July) was greatest in isolated seeds (50%) and was followed in decreasing order by cut fruit segments, whole fruit segments, and pods. Germination was consistently greater in the dark, but the effect was less as germination temperature increased. Storage at room temperature increased germination. Leaching immediately after harvest increased the dark germination of isolated seeds, but decreased germination of other seed types. Stratification of freshly harvested and after-ripened seeds generally decreased the germination of seeds which had high germination before stratification and it had less of an effect and in some cases a stimulatory effect on seeds with poor initial germination. Drying increased the germination of isolated seeds stratified for 18 weeks. The ecological implications of these results are discussed.
10.2307/2996430|During the 1983 field season, quantitative data on composition and structure of all strata of vegetation were obtained from stands containing balsam fir (Abies balsamea [L] Mill) at three of the four localities where indigenous populations of this species occur in the mountains of central West Virginia In addition, data were obtained on soil physical and chemical characteristics For the tree stratum (stems  10 cm dbh), A balsamea had an overall importance value of 46.2 in the sampled stands, with Picea rubens Sarg (19.8), Tsuga canadensis (L) Carr (12.7), and Betula lutea Michaux f (10.9) the most important associates Abies balsamea also dominated in smaller size classes, which suggests that this species will continue to be important in these stands Although the stands sampled in this study are ecologically similar to comparable spruce-dominated stands in central West Virginia, some compositional and structural differences do exist.
10.2307/2484112|Populations of Iva imbricata were studied throughout a two year period in five contrasting habitats of Bluff Island, North Carolina. Population developmental age structures varied among the habitats due to differences in seed production and dispersal, and the emergence and establishment of seedlings. Seed production and seedling emergence were greatest in the foredune habitat; however, substrate movement and desiccation so completely decimated these seedlings that foredune populations were maintained almost exclusively by asexual reproduction. Seedling survival was higher in the low lying habitats of the beach, swale, and upper marsh, such that, when seeds were available, seedling recruitment played a more significant role in the population structure of these habitats. Wind and storm waters influenced seed dispersal while substrate movement and soil moisture most strongly influenced survival to maturity. Demographic and growth characteristics suggest that Iva might be useful in dune stabilization.
10.2307/2482955|1. Four new collections of Oe. elata from central Mexico have been analyzed cytogenetically. 2. Three of these possess the same arrangement of their chromosome ends, an arrangement not found among the previously analyzed races. The fourth has an arrangement identical with four other Mexican races described in an earlier study. 3. The segmental arrangements of collections of Oe. elata from Middle America are correlated with their geographical distribution and morphology. 4. The new cytogenetic data support the hypothesis suggested in an earlier study that Oe. hookeri or a hookeri-like ancestor was originally distributed throughout Middle America and that this population has been fragmented into relatively isolated segments which are currently undergoing cytogenetic differentiation.
10.2307/2481965|1. Microscopic examination of the fungus flora of a series of trickling filter beds over a period of two years indicated that only three species of fungi were present as regular inhabitants. 2. The first two were readily determined as Fusarium episphaeria and Oospora lactis. Each seems to be somewhat seasonal in its growth. 3. The third fungus appears in the conidial form on the beds, but when grown on nutrient agar in mixed culture proved to be a new genus and species of the family Ophiostomataceae. 4. The generic name proposed for this fungus is Subbaromyces with the type species designated as S. splendens.
10.2307/2996387|A large, minimally disturbed, and floristically diverse old-growth forest (Hawk Woods) on the Allegheny Plateau in south-eastern Ohio was studied to compare woody vegetation structure, composition, and soils both within and among communities. Five vegetation types were initially identified based on visual estimates of dominance and indicator species: mixed mesophytic, mixed oak-tulip poplar, white oak, oak-hickory, and oak-heath. Principal components ordination did not reveal distinct groupings of stands within and among vegetation types. Further quantitative analysis suggested that fewer ecological groupings were sufficient to describe vegetation types. Cluster analysis supported three ecological groupings apparently related to a topographic-moisture continuum. Multivariate analysis of variance of soil variables indicated significant differences among stands. Linear correlation of soil variables with principal components suggested the presence of a soil nutrient gradient associated with the topographic-moisture gradient. Edaphic parameters were not useful for discriminating community types but did however covary with the vegetation continuum. Size-class analysis of vegetation types indicated similarities and differences both among communities within Hawk Woods and among other forests in the Plateau region. Diameter distribution curves for vegetation types were observed to fit the negative power function more closely than the negative exponential function. Size-class distributions of individual species varied, apparently as a function of broad-scale ecological characteristics (e.g., shade tolerance). Quercus spp. exhibited marked underrepresentation in the smaller size-classes, suggesting an inability to self-perpetuate.
10.2307/2484871|A polyhaploid (2n=21) plant of Agropyron repens (L.) Beauv. was obtained from a group of 18 pairs of twin seedlings. The polyhaploid was smaller and had finer leaves, culms, and spikes than its hexaploid (2n=42) twin. Chromosome pairing in the hexaploid averaged 0.42
10.2307/2484578|Forty-three "witness trees" are listed in deeds and surveyors' records between 1685 and 1764 from the Newton (Queens) Records. Fourteen are "black oaks," seven are "walnuts" (hickories), six are "white oaks," and five are "chestnuts." The remaining eleven are distributed among "cherry trees," "maples," "pear," "elm," "buttonwood" (sycamore), and "sassafras." These data agree with general accounts of forests in the vicinity of New York and Long Island by early colonists. Roland M. Harper, in his discussion of the forests of northern Queens County in 1917, indicated that Quercus velutina, Castanea dentata, Q. alba, and Hicoria (Carya) spp. accounted for 41% of the trees. Selective sampling of the few remaining natural forests in northern Queens today shows that Q. velutina accounts for 35% of the trees, and Q. alba, Carya tomentosa, and C. glabra together account for 11%. These data are interpreted as indicating that the composition of the modern forest reflects that of the colonial forests with the major exception of the loss of Castanea.
10.2307/2483578|In the genus Monarda the glomerules are arranged in a solitary or verticillastrate fashion. The glomerules consist either of a compact, irregularly shaped disk upon which the flowers are attached borne on short pedicels, or loosely branching axes bearing the flowers on longer pedicels. The nature of this inflorescence is explored. It is shown that the now compact glomerule is a fusion product of two axillary cymose branches. The hypothesis is presented that the more primitive inflorescence was a much branched cyme and an opposite flower arrangement on each branch. It is further demonstrated that the solitary and apparently terminal glomerule is derived from the more unspecialized verticillastrate condition.
10.2307/2484413|Beta diversity is here defined as change per unit environmental gradient and expressed as a function using standard calculus notation. The beta-understory and beta-overstory of a gray beech forest in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park differed in magnitude along a moisture gradient. These two functions were neither linear nor parallel. If indirect ordination is used, the understory and overstory plots tend to maintain the same order on the ordination axes, but the spacing between plots is not the same.
10.2307/2483670|A comparison of the pollen grain sizes for some of the erect Tradescantias indigenous to the United States is presented. The pollen grain transport mechanisms for some members of the group were investigated, and it is suggested that wind is probably an unsatisfactory means of pollination. The honeybee Apis mellifera and the bumblebee Bombus separatus are suggested as the most likely pollinators. Interspecific hybrids of three new types of Tradescantia are documented. Some of the mechanisms thought to be responsible for the isolation of the species are described.
10.2307/2483644|Morphological features of the distylous flowers are documented for Jepsonia malvifolia (Greene) Small, a saxifragaceous endemic of the Channel Islands of California and Guadalupe Island of Mexico. An artificial hybridization program indicates that an incompatibility system is associated with distyly, although it is weaker than that of the other two species of Jepsonia. Study of pollen deposited on stigmas in the field indicates that pins are subjected to a high proportion of pollination by pins. This, plus the fact that insufficient thrum pollen is present on pin stigmas to allow full seed production, probably has resulted in selection in favor of a weakened self-incompatibility in J. malvifolia.
10.2307/2996886|The purple coneflower referred to as Echinacea (Brauneria) pallida in the numerous ecological publications of John E. Weaver on the Central North American Grasslands over a 50-year period (1919-1968) was actually E angustifolia DC. Interestingly, Weaver used the specific epithet pallida throughout his career, even though the floristic manuals that covered all or part of his study area and most other Great Plains plant ecologists of the period used angustifolia.
10.2307/2483398|Queens of Bombus fervidus Fabr. pollinate the flowers of Castilleja sessiliflora Pursh in lime prairies of southern Wisconsin where the plant is a root parasite of two species of Juniperus. Morphology of the flower seems to exclude other insects. Queens of Bombus fervidus possess exceptionally long tongues and narrow heads which enable them to reach the nectar at the base of the corolla tube. Parasitic requirements of the plant seem to determine the spatial arrangement of the species by breaking the local population into aggregations surrounding the host plants. Activities of the bumblebees favor panmixis in the population. Flights between separate aggregations were almost as common as flights between adjacent aggregations. The yellow color of the flower is not due to a single pigment which transmits monochromatic yellow light but rather to pigments which transmit large quantities of long wave-lengths and a lesser quantity of short wave-lengths.
10.2307/2482230|1. The chromosome numbers of the Phalaris spp. investigated agreed with previous reports. 2. The four tetraploid species behaved cytologically like allopolyploids. 3. Aneuploid plants were found in Phalaris arundinacea (9 per cent) and P. minor (3 per cent). 4. Non-reduction and improper orientation at metaphase I may be contributing to the variation in chromosome numbers.
10.2307/2996122|Carpenter bees, hummingbirds, and butterflies are common flower visitors to a population of Thalia geniculata (Marantaceae), located in the Palo Verde Wildlife Refuge, Guanacaste Province, Costa Rica. In this study, the role of these pollinators in triggering the explosive pollination mechanism of Thalia was assessed and visitation rates were recorded in three successive years. Bees were found to trigger most flowers they visited, hummingbirds triggered approximately 50% of visited flowers, and butterflies did not trigger any. Visitation activity at flowers varied significantly in both space and time, and was influenced by flower height, a plant's proximity to other conspecifics, the strength of the wind (which varied daily) and possibly by the flowering state of other species growing nearby (which varied annually). T. geniculata was found to be able to produce seeds autogamously which prevents reduction in seed set in areas, or during periods, of low pollinator activity.
10.2307/2484335|A cross of Mentha arvensis L. (2n = 6x = 72) x M. spicata (2n = 4x = 48) produced an F
10.2307/2483507|Microclimatic data were collected in the Horsepasture and Toxaway River drainages of Transylvania County, N.C. Yearly regimes of temperature for air and shallow soil, of relative humidity and rainfall were obtained, but no limiting values were set. Summertime regimes for light intensity, evaporation and insolation were recorded. Data on germination and overwintering of seedlings and young plants were collected on 20 plots. Greater persistence was found at sites of northerly aspect and with 400 ft-c or more noontime light intensity. First year seedling losses were 69%, but only 30% of all young plants studied failed to overwinter. Germination on mineral or moss-covered soil was found infrequently iii a range characterized by substrates of thick plant litter and noontime light intensity of less than 100 f.c. Frequency of germination in the wild fluctuated markedly during two seasons of field study. Leaf dimension, budding, branching, flowering intensity and biomass were studied. S. galacifolia was, judged to be in a relict condition with the low incidence of reproduction sites accounting in part for its endemism.
10.2307/2484116|Twenty-four stations in South Oyster Bay, Great South Bay, and adjacent New York Bight were monitored for phytoplankton taxonomic analysis, standing crop, biomass, diversity, and frequency determinations. The study noted 241 genera with 57 considered major elements of the flora from April through October 1972. Average standing crop of the estuarine area (1.612 x 10
10.2307/2482477|1. Early embryogeny in Phaseolus lunatus closely resembles that of other members of the genus. 2. Cotyledon primordia are formed before procambial tissue becomes obvious; but when differentiation of the latter is apparent, its direction of development is acropetal. 3. A root apical meristem develops as a focal zone of less active cells surrounded by a spherical shell of more active, concentrically dividing eumeristem cells. 4. No histogenic layers are to be found in the root apical meristem or its derivatives. 5. The epicotyl consists of two opposed primary leaf primordia, in which procambial tissue develops acropetally. Stipular primordia are also present. 6. No relationship could be found between anatomical development and the stage of optimum organoleptic quality.
10.2307/2997182|Ten forest stands sampled in the Alan Seeger Natural Area, Huntington County, in central Pennsylvania were represented as Tsuga-Betula on wet stream bottoms, Tsuga-Pinus on wet to mesic stream terraces, mixed mesophytic species within a mesic upland cove, and mixed Quercus on mesic to dry upland slopes. Based on tree recruitment and radial growth patterns, low-intensity exogenous disturbances occurred every 30-60 yr during the presettlement era. Extensive logging during the mid- 1840s was evident throughout the area, and, along with subsequent disturbances, had a profound effect on current forest composition and structure. Tree species responded differently to major anthropogenic disturbance, in terms of growth rate and canopy positioning. In general, Pinus strobus L., Liriodendron tulipifera L. and Quercus responded favorably to disturbance, whereas Acer, Betula alleghaniensis Britton and Tsuga canadensis (L.) Carr recovered more slowly. Current forest age structures reflect different disturbance patterns and rates of recovery, and were categorized as either even-aged, uneven-aged consisting of 2 distinct even-aged cohorts, or uneven-aged with extended recruitment (multiple small-scale disturbances). Successional patterns currently exhibited in all forests may be drastically altered in the future from overbrowsing by white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and/or intense shrub competition on tree regeneration.
10.2307/2484374|Distyly has probably originated polyphyletically from tristyly in both Nesaea and Lythrum of the Lythraceae. In some instances, the two extant forms of distylous species are probably homologous to the long- and short-styled forms of the tristylous ancestors. In Lythrum section Euhyssopifolia the presence of one rather than two stamen sets renders drawing homologies by positional relationships of anthers and stigmas difficult. As an alternative method, comparisons were made between the ratios of size, number, and length of various structures and of stamen position in the long- and short-, long- and mid-, and mid- and short-styled forms of the trimorphic Old World L. junceum and those of the two forms of the distylous New World L. californicum, L. alatum, and L. lineare, all members of section Euhyssopifolia. In all comparisons, the figures for the distylous species parallel the long-styled mid-styled ratios of L. junceum more closely than do its long-styled. short-styled ratios. Stamen positions of the dimorphic species are also those of long-styled and mid-styled forms of the trimorphic one. The conclusion is that the two forms of the dimorphic species in the section represent modified long-styled and mid-styled forms of a trimorphic ancestor. However, studies of pollen flow patterns in contemporary dimorphic and trimorphic species of Lythrum provide no insights into the selective basis for these profound and repeated changes in floral morphology and breeding system in the family.
10.2307/2482726|1. Chaetostylun and Chaetocladium are recognized as valid genera-Chaetostylum is considered to be monotypic while Chaetocladium is believed to contain two distinct species. 2. The synonymy and history of these genera and species are given. 3. Conditions for producing zygospores and a description of them are given for the genus Chaetocladium. 4. All species described above grow at 70
10.2307/2481932|1. This investigation of chromosome reduction in Allomyces represents the first detailed study of meiosis in the Phycomycetes. 2. While previous workers had indicated the approximate position of meiosis in the subgenus Euallomyces, the present cytological study shows that the two meiotic divisions occur in the germinating resistant sporangia. 3. In the subgenus Cystogenes, in which nothing was known regarding chromosome behavior, meiosis also takes place in the germinating resistant sporangia. This subgenus is shown to be predominantly diploid with only one division of haploid nuclei in the entire life cycle. 4. In Brachyallomyces, a subgenus whose nuclear behavior was also unknown, the nuclear divisions in the resistant sporangia are mitotic rather than meiotic, and, as a consequence, the sexual phase is omitted from the life cycle. 5. The Euallomyces life cycle is compared in detail with the Cystogenes and Brachyallomyces cycles. 6. Some of the phenomena of maturation and germination of the resistant sporangia of Allomyces are described. The cytoplasmic and nuclear changes in the maturing sporangia are correlated with their ability to germinate. The effects of temperature and age are found to be important factors in the germination of resistant sporangia. 7. Although meiosis in Allomyces follows the general pattern of most organisms, the reduction divisions exhibit certain points of interest, such as the intranuclear divisions, the large nucleolus, and the late prophase of meiosis in which the nuclei are arrested until germination of resistant sporangia begins. 8. The chromosome numbers are given for certain isolates, and polyploidy is reported in two species. 9. By direct cytological evidence of chromosome numbers, this work confirms Kniep's belief that filamentous fungi occur in which the true diploid condition exists in vegetative hyphae.
10.2307/2995980|Total amounts and concentrations of above-ground phytomass and nutrients in the understory of an Appalachian oak forest in the Ridge and Valley Province of Southwest Virginia were determined. Four stands, representing points along a topographically derived moisture gradient, were selected for sampling. Above-ground understory phytomass increased from the mesic mixed hardwood stand to the more xeric mixed pine stand, while overstory phytomass decreased. Nutrient (N, P, K, Ca, Mg) concentrations of individual species decreased along the moisture gradient from mesic to xeric sites. Mean stand nutrient concentrations also decreased along the gradient due to decreased concentrations in individual species and the dominance of xeric sites by species with low average nutrient concentrations. In contrast to the large herbaceous, non-ericaceous component on mesic sites, xeric sites were characterized by an abundance of woody ericads, including evergreen species. This trend indicated a lower turnover rate of nutrients on the more xeric sites. The size of above-ground nutrient pools in the understory increased from mesic to xeric sites as a result of increased phytomass in the understory. It was suggested that this increased understory nutrient pool and slower turnover rate on more xeric sites may be important in reducing nutrient drains following overstory removal.
10.2307/2484433|Estimates of % cover of living and nonliving plant material were obtained in six plots disked annually, each in a different month, and one undisturbed plot. Living vegetation on the plot disked in August was relatively sparse. Plots disked during the period August to December had very low detritus cover during winter months. A list of vascular plant species occurring in the plots is included.
10.2307/2482220|Meristematic development and tissue differentiation is described in the embryogeny of Taxus cuspidata. After apical growth has occurred for some time in the young embryo, the differentiation of a focal area of lighterstaining cells just behind the apex foretokens the formation of the root generative meristem and procambium The focal area enlarges, and adjacent cells divide with walls concentric about this area. Simultaneously, the root generative meristem becomes active, furnishing abmicropylar cells which contribute to the formation of hypocotylary procambium and admicropylar cells which contribute to cortex and suspensor. As the focal group becomes less active, the cells produced by the lateral concentric divisions build up buttresses of tissue on the flanks of the free apex of the embryo. Deeply-staining cells in these buttresses have a histological continuity with the cells of the elongating procambial core of the hypocotyl. Although later cotyledon growth occurs by activity of superficial initials, cotyledonary primordia are raised from the buttresses by predominantly subepidermal activity. The procambial strand in each cotyledon, always continuous with the procambial core, develops acropetally behind the apex of the cotyledon. Only after marked hypocotyl elongation and cotyledon enlargement does the root generative meristem produce any tissue resembling the "column" of the pinaceous root cap. This tissue is very indistinct, and as a consequence of this type of development, there is no "juncture zone" on the outer surface of the embryo, and the epidermal layer and several hypodermal layers are continuous from the cotyledons into the suspensor. As in other conifer embryos, the shoot apex is a conical mass of apparently dormant cells, which are large and have a lightly-staining cytoplasmic matrix. The ripe embryo lacks vascular and secretory elements, and no pith is present. The cotyledons, usually two in number (sometimes three), are relatively short.
10.2307/2483395|Observations on floral and insect behavior are presented supporting an hypothesis that flowers of Mirabilis multiflora (Torr.) Gray (Nyctaginaceae) are visited and pollinated by hawkmoths. My observations are compared with similar observations by Baker on M. froebelii (Behr) Greene and discussed with respect to specificity of pollination classes.
10.2307/2996401|Water and nutrients are considered the primary factors limiting vegetative growth in many plant communities. We examined the effects of added water and nutrients on photosynthesis and water use efficiency (WUE) of juveniles of Quercus hemisphaerica and Quercus laevis growing together in a sandhill community in South Carolina. Supplemental water and nutrients were added in a 2 x 2 factorial design. Diurnal photosynthesis was determined approximately biweekly from June to October and integrated long-term WUE was evaluated using carbon isotope discrimination at the end of this period. Analysis of diurnal photosynthesis curves indicated no significant differences between species, but differences within species were significant between day of sampling, time of measurement, and treatment. Net photosynthesis of Q. hemisphaerica in watered treatments was significantly greater than photosynthesis in unwatered treatments, primarily at midday on days with high temperatures following prolonged drought. Neither nutrients nor water significantly affected the photosynthesis of Q. laevis, regardless of environmental conditions. Fertilization was found to differentially affect WUE of Q. hemisphaerica and Q. laevis, possibly confounding WUE differences between these two species. Because Q. hemisphaerica is often found in more mesic environments than Q. laevis, and because it responded to the addition of water with an increase in photosynthesis, we concluded that in a sandhill community Q. hemisphaerica juveniles are limited primarily by water rather than by low fertility. Our results indicated that juveniles of Q. laevis, the community dominant, are not as plastic as Q. hemisphaerica in their response to fertilizer and water additions.
10.2307/2995898|New are Schiedea Menziesii var lihauensis of Maui, Geranium kauaiense (Rock) St John, based on G humile var. kauaiense, with a type from Kauai; Pelea Pickeringii var citriodorata of Hawaii I.; Labordia tinifolia var wahiawaensis of Kauai; and Morinda citrifolia forma Potteri (Deg) St John, and type of which is from Fiji; Pritchardia donata Caum and Antidesma pulvinatum Hbd are designated as lectotypes; Tetraplasandra meiandra var rhynchocarpa Sherff is provided with a description of the flowers.
10.2307/2483852|A vigorous interspecific hybrid has been obtained from cross-pollinations between two tropical woody species of Jatropha, J. curcas and J. integerrima, which belong to different sections of the genus. Although the hybrid is effectively self-sterile, it can be backcrossed with J. integerrima and the progeny show segregation for leaf characters. The high percentage of normal pollen (66%) and ease of backcrossing were unexpected since the parents are rather distantly related according to taxonomic standards. Apparently morphological variation and geographical separation have not been accompanied by the formation of strong reproductive barriers.
10.2307/2996920|This study describes the structure and composition of a shrub-carr in a weakly minerotrophic peatland, in Cicero Swamp Wildlife Management Area (CSWMA), 94 years after a severe fire. Total shrub density averaged 1.25 x 10
10.2307/2483624|Restudy of type specimens of Monoscalitheca fasciculata Abbott has revealed new details of pinna structure and of sporangia. M. fasciculata Abbott is regarded as a synonym of Biscalitheca musata Mamay emend Phillips and Andrews.
10.2307/2484188|The active transectional area for vertical conduction in the conducting phloem has been estimated in three evergreen and three deciduous Indian tropical trees, from bark collections made round the year at monthly intervals. It has been found that the active area varies from 15 to 17% in Delonix regia and Terminalia arjuna with an average of 16.3 and 16.0%, 16 to 21% in Mimusops elengi with an average of 17.5%, 17 to 21% in Peltophorum ferrugineum with an average of 18.3%, and 16 to 20% in Polyalthia longifolia and Putranjiva roxburghii with an average of 17.6 and 18.3 respectively. The importance of a thorough investigation of the structural details of secondary phloem round the year in the individual species, as a prelude to physiological studies is emphasized.
10.2307/2997029|In order to amplify and correct information in the literature, qualitative and quantitative data are presented for wood, root, stem, and leaf anatomy of the two species of Eupomatia. Perforation plates of vessel elements have many bars and variously extensive remnants of pit membranes; imperforate tracheary element's are septate fiber-tracheids with reduced borders on pits; axial parenchyma is diffuse and sparse. Reports of storying and vesturing in wood of Eupomatia are probably incorrect. Tuberous roots have furrowed xylem and highly parenchymatous secondary phloem. Nodes are multilacunar. Tannin-like structures in stems and petioles are cellular rather than ducts or cavities. Stomata are paracytic. The two species are compared. Eupomatiaceae are placed in Magnoliales (sensu stricto) in recent studies. Vegetative anatomy confirms that placement, but, as in previous studies, this study cannot decisively place the family close to any one family of Magnoliales.
10.2307/2996346|Cultural studies and pairings of solitary ascospore isolates of Hypomyces polyporinus (anamorph Sympodiophora polyporicola) with the type conidial isolate of Arnoldiomyces clavisporus produced fertile perithecia of H. polyporinus, indicating that they are the same species. The correct name of the anamorph is Arnoldiomyces clavisporus; Sympodiophora polyporicola becomes a synonym.
10.2307/2484898|Anomalous secondary growth by means of successive cambia is reported in stems and roots of three species of Stegnosperma. A description of the secondary plant axis is given for the genus and variation within individual plants and between species is analyzed. At any given level in the plant axis each successive cambium produces wood similar to that produced by previous cambia. Within the same plant, roots have larger pore diameters, longer vessel elements, and longer fiber-tracheids than stems. Comparisons among all three species reveal significant differences between S. cubense and the other two species. Few differences exist between S. halimifolium and S. watsonii with respect to wood dimensions. The anomalous cambia arise successively in centrifugal order, each originating among the outer derivatives of the preceding cambium. each cambial layer functions bidirectionally producing xylem towards the inside of the axis and phloem towards the outside. The new cambia arise outside the oldest sieve tubes of a given increment. The phloem and the xylem differentiate from radially seriated derivatives produced sequentially by tangential divisions in the cambium. An examination of the systematic distribution of anomalous secondary thickening in the Phytolaccaceae shows that Stegnosperma exhibits a structure typical of the majority of species in the family. The anomaly is similar in many respects to that in members of 20 families in 13 orders.
10.2307/2482858|The genus Manihot has at least two geographic centers of speciation. One region comprises the drier areas of western and southern Mexico and portions of Guatemala, and the other the dry, northeastern portions of Brazil. Cultivars of Manihot esculenta may be found in these areas and extending into all of the lowland tropical portions of Central and South America and the West Indies. There is some evidence that the cultivars have hybridized with locally occurring native species in each of these geographical centers to form a number of complexes. Many of the wild species of Manihot have the appearance of weeds derived from the cultivated complex. From the ethnological evidence the cultivars with low cyanogenetic glucoside content are more widely distributed than are the cultivars with higher concentrations of [CN-]. (This symbol is used to represent the cyanide, indicating the combination with a glucoside.) From a cultural standpoint it seems that the older civilizations used cultivars with the low [CN-] content and that later cultivation included those with the higher concentrations. From these data it seems that there is not one center from which Manihot esculenta may be derived but that there are several, and one of the areas that has not been previously considered by those interested in the origins of cultivated plants is the Mexican and Central American area
10.2307/2483478|Cuticular modifications by the environment and morphological studies have been conducted on Kalanchoe fedschenkoi to determine the degree of constancy of cuticular features when subjected to different environmental conditions. Our specimens of K. fedschenkoi (Crassulaceae) were cuttings from the same plant and hence are considered to have genetic constancy. The plants were subjected to the following environmental conditions: Desert, Outside, Mesic, Tropical-1, and Tropical-2, as well as a supplemental 60
10.2307/2484710|Stem diameters and dry weight for bole, branches, bark and needles are given for twenty hemlock trees from the southern Appalachians. Simple allometric equations relating dry weights to dbh are also presented. Nutrient concentrations for fifteen elements are included.
10.2307/2996226|Living and dead root standing crop of Carex rostrata Stokes, C. trichocarpa Muhl., and C. lasiocarpa Ehrh. was estimated and its distribution in the soil profile determined. The percentage of living roots in total root standing crop was relatively low, 11.9-18.8%, while belowground standing crop values were high; 2237 g/m
10.2307/2482655|1. Codiolum petrocelidis Kuckuck and Spongomorpha coalita (Ruprecht) Collins have been cultured in the laboratory. Wild plants of C. petrocelidis form zoospores which yield plants of Spongomorpha coalita. 2. These plants of S. coalita are dioecious and form only gametes, as do the wild plants. The zygotes develop into plants of C. petrocelidis which, like the wild plants, form zoospores. 3. Artificial infection of Petrocelis franciscana Setchell et Gardner with C. petrocelidis was achieved by using zygotes derived from plants of S. coalita. 4. Wild Spongomorpha as well as plants raised in laboratory cultures were used in these experiments. The results of this study thus show that S. coalita and C. petrocelidis represent the gametophytic and sporophytic generations, respectively, of an alga which for the present may be known as S. coalita.
10.2307/2483628|Chromosome numbers for 71 collections are listed. These include 24 taxa representing 4 genera, 10 of which were previously unknown cytologically. Those reported for the first time are Arenaria congesta var. congesta, A. congesta var lithophila, A. eastwoodiae, A. hookeri var. hookeri, A. hookeri var. pinetorum, A. kingii var. uintahensis, A. nuttallii, Stellaria calycantha var simcoei, S. jamesiana, and S. obtusa. The record of 2n = 44 for Arenaria fendleri and the counts of 2n = ca. 52 and 2n = 78 for A. obtusiloba are different from any published results for the same taxa.
10.2307/2484736|Much variation exists in the populations of unifoliolate Orotalarias native to Florida. Differences in leaf shape have been recognized in the literature as taxonomically important at the species level, but field studies show that samples from a single population often contain nearly the complete range of leaf variation. Plants grown from seed obtained from a variety of seed parents exhibiting a broad range of leaf shapes produced progeny with varied leaf shapes if the seed parents were from variable populations. Some parents with intermediate leaf shapes produced progeny with nearly the full range of leaf shapes. Since there is high pollen stainability and no unusual percentage of seed abortion in any plants in the populations examined, the populations are viewed as being representative of a single polymorphic variety (Crotalaria rotundifolia [Walt.] Gmelin var. rotundifolia) rather than of hybrid origin between several species.
10.2307/2483496|Two new species of Pseudotomentella are described from North America: P. griseopergamacea is noted from New York and P. atrofusca from Arizona and Idaho. Descriptive data are supplemented by photomicrographs.
10.2307/2481881|Somatic chromosome numbers were determined in root tips of 205 seedlings of the North American papaw, Asimina triloba (L.) Dunal, that were grown from 23 collections of seeds. In eighteen collections, 171 seedlings were diploid (2n = 18). In five collections, 29 seedlings were diploid, and 1 seedling in each was triploid (2n = 27). There was an average of one triploid per forty diploids.
10.2307/2484312|Both E. annuus and E. canadensis are primary invaders after cropland abandonment, but only E. annuus is important after three years of succession. It was shown previously with starch gel electrophoresis and the zymogram technique that a large number of adaptively different biotypes exist in E. annuus In this study, the amount of polymorphism and ecological divergence in E. canadensis was examined and found to be much less than that of E. annuus. These results suggest that a highly polymorphic species may possess ecological advantages in a changing environment.
10.2307/2996489|Passage Creek, in northwestern Virginia, flows on relatively nonresistant shales, then cuts through a gorge underlain by resistant sandstone In the gorge, the stream gradient steepens, the size of bed material increases, a braided channel forms, and riparian-forest composition and growth form changes relative to areas outside the gorge Effects of flooding are intensified within the gorge and revealed in the pattern and deformation of streamside vegetation Increased stream gradient within the gorge provides for high stream power and coarse sediment deposition relative to the flood plain outside the gorge. A more diverse upland forest grows on the flood plain in the gorge The riparian forest in the gorge may be an example of a nonequilibrium forest, resulting from periodic disturbance by destructive floods. Recognition of vegetation patterns resulting from such disturbances may be useful in detection of potential flooding.
10.2307/2482271|Ethanol, acetic acid, oxalic acid, and carbon dioxide apparently account for nearly 95% of the carbon metabolized by cultures of Neurospora as carbohydrate when grown in surface or submerged culture on a synthetic medium.
10.2307/2481903|1. Roots of Allium cepa treated with naphthalene acetic acid (.0002% for four hours) give rise, after 12 hours recovery in tap water, to many young primordia of lateral roots. 2. If treated with colchicine (.25% for 24 hours) at this stage, the cells of the young lateral root primordia increase greatly in size and become highly polyploid. 3. Growth of the lateral root primordia ceases and the walls of the greatly enlarged cells take on the characteristics of scalariform vessels. These nests of abnormally differentiated cells never give rise to lateral roots but form small tumors buried within the tissue of the original root.
10.2307/2996468|Bibliographic details are given for Emily Lovira Gregory (1841-1897) of Barnard College, New York, the first American woman to receive a doctorate in botany (1886) and the first to write a plant anatomy book, and an active member of the Torrey Botanical Club. A recently discovered manuscript written in early 1897 is published with notes and added bibliography because of its importance in comparing plant anatomy textbooks in the late nineteenth century.
10.2307/2483367|Chromosome numbers were determined for 16 introductions of species of Bromus, for 12 of species of Festuca and for 1 of Arrhenatherum. The following are first or new reports of chromosome numbers: Bromus alopecuros Poir., 2n = 14; B. anatolicus Boiss. & Heldr., 2n = 14; B. brachystachys Hornung, 2n = 14; B. danthoniae (Desf.) Trin., 2n = 14 (this may be equivalent to B. danthonia reported by Schulz-Schaeffer and Markarian, 1957); B. erectus Huds., 2n = 112; B. oxyodon Schrenk, 2n = 28; Festuca kronenburgii Hack., 2n = 14; F. laxa Host, 2n = 42; Vulpa myuros (L.) C. C. Gmel received as F. longipes Stapf, 2n = 42; F. thurberi Vasey, 2n = 28, 42; Arrhenatherum elatius (L.) Presl. received as A. erianthum Boiss. & Reut., 2n = 14. For B. erectus Huds., 2n = 112 is additional to provious reports and for F. thurberi Vasey, 2 numbers are reported. Some karyological details were added for several species.
10.2307/2482245|1. A New York collection of Vaucheria Arechavaletae Magn. & Wille, a species not otherwise collected since its discovery in 1875, is described. 2. Evidence is presented to show that V. prolifera Dangeard, placed by its author in the Globiferae, and V. Jaoi Ley placed by Jao and Ley in the Pseudoanomalae, are closely related species which should be assigned to a common section of the genus. 3. V. brevicaulis is described as a new species from Western New York. 4. New collection records of several of the rarer species of Vaucheriaceae are given, including the first record from the Western hemisphere of Yaucheria pseudo-geminata Dangeard.
10.2307/2483562|Grimmia occidentalis, sub-genus Schistidium, from western North America is described as new.
10.2307/2484489|Typha angustifolia L. clones, which were transplanted into a reclaimed estuarine marsh at Camp Smith, Peekskill, New York, during November 1971 and April, May and June 1972, became established and were thriving after two years. May and June were the most successful transplanting periods. The experimental area exhibited spectacular recovery in native flora through natural invasion or buried seed. Floral species in the reclaimed marsh were similar to those of the adjacent marsh.
10.2307/2484742|A small remnant stand of old-growth Pinus elliottii in Wakulla County, Florida, is described. The soil is poorly drained, sandy, and strongly acid. When measured in 1967-68, the open overstory was composed of trees mostly 38-64 cm dbh, 30-37 m tall, and roughly 85 years old. The largest was 99 cm dbh and 38 m tall. Pine reproduction was lacking, and most overstory trees showed signs of heart rot. The understory, dense but discontinuous, was composed of broadleaved, mostly evergreen shrubs and small trees, ranging upwards to 12 m tall, with Magnolia virginiana, Nyssa sylvatica var. biflora, Persea borbonia, and Cyrilla racemiflora predominating. Unless diverted by fire, development of a bay swamp is predicted, the new community deriving its dominants from the understory.
10.2307/2484491|Dorstenia gracilis, a new species from Espirito Santo State, Brazil, has a short, pubescent aerial stem, awlshaped stipules and elliptical, villose leaves with irregular silver markings on the upper surface. D. schulzii occurs in Paraguay and northeastern Argentina. It has rigid stipules and oblong papery leaf blades with regularly shaped longitudinal white spots on the upper surface.
10.2307/2484047|Volatile materials emanating from leaves of S. leucophylla greatly reduce root and hypocotyl growth of germinating herb seeds. These structures are severely inhibited in the division and vertical elongation of their individual cells. Lipid globules accumulate within most cells and excessive turin deposits appear on the outer walls of epidermal cells. Fewer lateral root initials develop, and in severely inhibited plants these roots never emerge through the epidermis. Some vascular tissue differentiation did occur but to a much lesser extent than in the controls.
10.2307/2483527|A variety of cell elongation growth factors were presented to matured and still growing segments of the bean hypocotyl to ascertain whether cessation of growth of this organ is regulated by the available supply of growth factors. The evidence obtained suggests that determinant maturation is controlled by factors other than the more obvious chemical and photomorphogenic processes.
10.2307/2996045|For six coniferous tree species of mid-altitude forests in the northern Rocky Mountains, a comparison of their biological characteristics and usual roles in succession does not reveal the pattern of specialization for early or late successional roles found among some species of the northeastern deciduous forests. Early successional species among these conifers have lower shade tolerance and greater annual extension growth than late successional species, but for seed weight, seed longevity, age to first seed production, crop frequency and maximum longevity, there is not a consistent relationship between rank and successional role. This failure to conform to the predictions of classical r-K selection may be explained in part by the disturbance regime, the site-specific nature of successional roles, and aspects of the abiotic environment related to climate in the northwestern United States.
10.2307/2482337|The genus Schizostege Hillebrand was based on Cheilanthes Lidgatei Baker, an anomalous Hawaiian fern originally considered to differ from Pteris in having interrupted sori. Two Philippine plants with apparently similar sori were placed with it. All three are rare and poorly known ferns, and the Hawaiian had been suggested to be a possible mutant of Pteris excelsa Gaud. A rediscovery of this plant in 1947 showed thai it occurred on steep wooded slopes in wet forest, growing in acid humus above a stream. An examination of hitherto unstudied material indicates that it should be reinterpreted as Pteris Lidgatei (Baker) Christ. Specimens from two of the six known localities possess uninterrupted pteroid coenosori with continuous fertile veinlets. The characteristics of the plant are so marked that it is undoubtedly a distinct species, but any close relationship with the genus Cheilanthes is questionable. In general features, especially frond habit, type of venation, and appendages of the costae, it conforms with the quadriaurita group of Pteris. Since short sori are found in certain Pteris species as a mature state or as a transient juvenile form, and since Such pteridaceous genera as Adiantum and Lindsaea contain species with coenosori and species with discrete sori, this by itself does not appear to be a natural generic criterion in this case. It is suggested that the separate sori found in typical P. Lidgatei may be due to the formation of the margins of the lobes, involving a growth correlation between the establishment of the sinuses of the teeth and the development of the sporangial initials. The thick leaf-texture is not unique in Pteris. The two Philippine plants, mutually closely related, placed with the Hawaiian plant, differ from it and the P. quadriaurita group in the habit of the frond with the terminal pinna formed by gradual reduction in symmetry and the winged rachis, the segment margins, indument, absence of costal appendages, venation, and texture. Soral similarities are probably due to convergent evolution and do not provide evidence of affinity. A genus comprising these two dissimilar elements is therefore considered artificial
10.2307/2996524|The New Jersey Pine Barren Plains are dwarfed (less than 3 m tall) forests in which the canopy species (Pinus rigida, Quercus marilandica, Q. ilicifolia) exhibit a predominance of vegetative reproduction, rare seedling establishment, and the shrub (multiple-stemmed) growth form. Permanent quadrats have been established in a portion of the West Plains which burned in May 1981 to describe quantitatively the postfire response of P. rigida (pitch pine) in terms of genet survival, sprouting dynamics and seedling establishment. Postfire demography of Quercus marilandica and Q. ilicifolia is also being monitored. Eleven post-1981 fire P. rigida were harvested from extra-quadrat areas and biomass, first year net aboveground production and wood surface area were determined. Three months after the May 1981 fire, P. rigida supported 65 sprouts/genet whereas Quercus spp. supported 13 sprouts/genet. No P. rigida seedlings and two Quercus spp. seedlings were observed in 40 m
10.2307/2484519|Enzyme variation among three adjacent Typha populations was analyzed by means of disc electrophoresis, isoelectric focusing, and enzyme assays. Esterase isozyme analysis of seedlings of Typha latifolia L., T. x glauca Godr., and T. angustifolia L. indicated that there was little or no variation within each population. Additional analyses of esterase, malate dehydrogenase, glutamate dehydrogenase, and alcohol dehydrogenase of pooled samples of pollen and seedlings indicated that the Typha x glauca population was the product of hybridization between the adjacent parent populations. The hybrid population had more isozymes, but lower specific activities, than the parents.
10.2307/2484118|Four methods of determining understory production in an Arizona ponderosa pine forest are compared. These forests have a species-rich understory community, are spatially heterogeneous, and occur in an area characterized by a biseasonal distribution of precipitation. The standard peak standing crop and the peak species biomass procedures are not reliable; estimates of net annual primary production may be one-half or less of the actual value. The summation of positive increments method, which utilizes biomass data collected throughout the growing season, gives the most realistic estimate of production, but is the most difficult and time consuming procedure. For this community type a useful method is the summation of July and September biomass, a procedure that is a compromise of practical constraints and accuracy.
10.2307/2484030|The capnodiaceous genus Leptocapnodium (Arnaud) Cif. & Bat. apud Bat. & Cif. emend. 1963 is critically examined. The type species, L. brasiliense (Putte.) Bat. & Cif. is redescribed and transferred to Scorias. L. walterii (Fraser) Bat. & Cif. and L. juniperi (Phill. & Plowr.) Bat. & Cif. are misrepresentative of the original definitions. L. kramerii Bat. & Cif. is based on two different species; the type collection closely resembles Capnodinula ramosella Cif. & Bat. and a second collection cited is the type of Phaeosac-cardinula dematia Miller and Bonar.
10.2307/2482071|1. A raised bog fed by seepage water from a north-facing hillside is occupied by two stands, one dominated by tamarack and the other by fir and spruce. 2. The succession from tamarack to fir-spruce is evident and is similar to that of low moors. 3. Certain details of both succession and community structure are different from those of low moor bogs and are apparently due to the sloping, drained surface. These differences are greatest in the lowest strata of the communities.
10.2307/2996454|Inexpensive sampling devices for the measurement of seed rain and hydrochory in rivers and other aquatic systems are described. The seed ram trap for aerially dispersed seeds consisted of the bottom 20 cm of a bucket attached to a Styrofoam block for flotation. The hydrochore trap for aquatic dispersal of seeds consisted of the top portion of a bucket, a cloth liner secured to the bucket with bottom removed, and two 2-liter beverage bottles for flotation. The total cost of one pair of seed rain and hydrochore traps was less than $1.00. The seed dispersal estimates from the aquatic seed traps reflected the relative numbers of species and seeds dispersed in aquatic systems. A test of the efficiency of the aquatic seed traps demonstrated that traps placed in a swamp over a period of a month captured 1.8 times the biomass of debris and seeds than were present on the surface of the water at any given time.
10.2307/2483060|1. The forest-prairie margin west of Itasca Park is remarkably abrupt. The western limit of deciduous forest coincides there with the top of the Big Stone moraine. 2. Westward, beyond this, the distribution of the various plant communities-oak and oak-aspen groves, aspen stands, shrub communities, marshes, wet prairie, mesic prairie, and dry prairie of mixed short and tall grasses-is related to totpography of the land together with the distribution of soils of different textures. 3. Woodland has increased and prairie has decreased in extent in the last half century. 4. Pronounced changes that have occurred in uncultivated areas are the result of decreased fire incidence throughout and drainage of the wetlands.
10.2307/2482753|Several new records are cited from Cuba, Hispaniola and Puerto Rico; Stigmaphyllon nipense is described as new from Cuba, and from Puerto Rico the following species: Calyptranthes luquillensis, C. peduncularis, C. triflorum, Eugenia margarettae, E. saviaefolia, E. haematocarpa. There are also a few new combinations in the Antillean Flora.
10.2307/2484764|Allozymes at 15 loci of four enzyme systems were assayed by standard, horizontal starch-gel electrophoresis in many accessions each of the tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) and the two other closely allied, colored-fruited, exclusively wild species, L. cheesmanii and L. pimpinellifolium. The three species possess the same set of isozymes, but differ to varying degree in allozymes at the isozymic loci. With few exceptions a single zymotype prevails in the highly self-pollinated, extra-Andean esculentum cultivars and conspecific wild var. cerasiforme. L. pimpinellifolium is highly diverse in its allozymes, the degree of polymorphy and heterozygosity being correlated with extent of outcrossing. Although the autogamous Galapagan L. cheesmanii is also variable, each population tends to be constant in zymotype, and variant alleles tend to be endemic. A few pimpinellifolium alleles appear in sympatric L. esculentum in coastal Ecuador and Peru. The prevailing zymotype of esculentum cultivars is more closely approximated in var. cerasiforme than in the other taxa. The hypothetical phylogeny precursor  var. cerasiforme  domestication (Mexico)  cultivars (Europe) is favored. The founder principle and strict autogamy probably account for the fixation in L. esculentum of only a tiny fraction of the total available genetic variation. The alleles shared by L. esculentum and L. pimpinellifolium were probably introgressed from the latter to the former. For reasons of genetic diversity and geographic isolation, L. pimpinellifolium and L. cheesmanii are considered more likely derivative from an ancient Lycopersicon stem line than ancestral to L. esculentum.
10.2307/2482581|1. A modified Nitsch's medium was found to be satisfactory for the cultivation of excised endosperm tissue of corn. This medium consists of a simplified Knop solution, minor elements, sucrose, thiamine, pyridoxine, cysteine, and Difco yeast extract. 2. Endosperm tissue excised 8 to 11 days after pollination produced the optimum growth. There was a marked decrease in the ability of explants to grow after this stage. The successful first transfer of newly formed tissue was made with 4 mbreds (two of sugary, one of waxy, and one of starchy endosperm) and with 8 single crosses (three of sugary, one of waxy, two of starchy, and two of waxy x starchy endosperm). Among these isolates, four from sugary endosperm (one inbred and three hybrids) have shown continuous growth for over 4 months through more than 5 transfers. All of them have high growth rates, and some have survived for as long as 8 months and appear to be able to grow indefinitely Subcultures of waxy and starchy endosperm tissue, on the other hand, showed only limited growth (2-5 months). 3. The established cultures on the yeast extract medium did not respond to mdoleacetic acid or other growth substances (NAA, 2,4-D, kinetin, and gibberellic acid) or to casein hydrolysate at the concentrations used. Coconut milk was unable to replace yeast extract. 4. Actively growing cultures were usually very friable, whereas slowly growing tissue tended to be solid. 5. For the cultivation of excised meristem tissue of corn, Gautheret's medium, supplemented with either coconut milk (18% by volume) or yeast extract (2 g./l.), was found to be promising. Small explants having intercalary meristem tissue developed new cells on this medium, although subculturing of new tissue was unsuccessful. Nodal or internodal tissue showed no cell division. All growth substances tested were ineffective under the conditions employed.
10.2307/2483806|Detailed comparison of the blue-flowered annual and biennial Echium from the Canary Islands shows that there are several fairly distinctive taxa: E. plantagineum L., E. bonnettii Coincy, with a variety, var. pachycaulon nov. var., E. fuerteventurae nov. sp., and E. lancerottense nov. sp. with a var. macrantha nov. var. These taxa are described and illustrated. It is proposed that reports of Echium arenarium Guss., E. creticum L., E. maritimum Willd., and E. stenosiphon Webb be deleted from the flora of the Canary Islands, since the specimens were incorrectly identified. The geographic distribution of the Canarian species is defined. It appears that most local endemism in annual Echium occurs in the dry regions, especially on the eastern islands Fuerteventura and Lanzarote.
10.2307/2482105|1. Excised embryos of C. lurida, C. stipata, and C. scoparia were grown in culture using White's standard nutrient solution. All these species showed satisfactory growth and development. 2. In separate experiments excised embryos of C. lurida were grown in culture using White's standard nutrient solution with maltose, lactose, dextrose, levulose and sucrose at 2 per cent concentrations and also in concentrations of 6, 2, 0.6, 0.2, and 0.06 per cent sucrose. 3. Best growth of both shoots and roots was obtained in the sucrose medium and in the dextrose medium. Maltose and lactose did not support growth. 4. In studies of the effects of the concentration of sucrose best growth of both shoots and roots was obtained in the 6 per cent and 2 per cent media.
10.2307/2482104|1. The development of the internode pattern was studied in an inbred line of maize characterized by a pattern intermediate between that of northern flint and southern dent varieties. 2. The characteristic internode pattern was not apparent until late in development, after elongation of the upper internodes was completed. This is interpreted to indicate that factors which control internode elongation are probably the dominant factors in determining the characteristics of the internode pattern. 3. Blade elongation in any leaf was completed in advance of the elongation of the internode below the leaf. 4. Leaf sheath elongation was also completed in advance of the elongation of corresponding internodes, but only in the lower portion of the plant. In the upper portion of the plant elongation of a leaf sheath and the corresponding internode occurred simultaneously. 5. The differences in the developmental relationships of leaf, leaf sheath and internode in upper and lower parts of the plant are discussed in terms of the overall growth pattern of maize.
10.2307/2483552|Populations of Oxalis montana Raf. sampled along a mountain slope show definite correlations between certain morphological characters and elevation. Flower number increases with higher elevation, but overall the lengths of the scape, pedicel, sepal, petal, stamen, and pistil decrease. Petals at lower elevations show pink-purple venation; at higher elevations the veins are less colored. Maximum number of cleistogamous flowers, and longest scapes occur at mid-elevations in the transition zone between the sugar maple-beechyellow birch and the red spruce-balsam fir forests.
10.2307/2483716|The effect of various environmental conditions during dormancy on the germination response of Oenothera seeds was tested. Germination response varied widely according to the strain of seed as well as the storage conditions. The storage of seed wet at 15
10.2307/2995978|Three new Costa Rican species of Symplocos, S. oreophila S. povedae, and S. tribracteolata are described, illustrated, compared, and contrasted with similar species.
10.2307/2484176|In 1960 the author reported that the chloroplasts in parenchyma sheath cells of leaves of the Panicoideae are located in the centrifugal regions whereas in the Eragrostoideae the chloroplasts are located in the centripetal regions of the cells. Now it is shown that in paradermal view the parenchyma sheath cells of the Panicoideae and Aristridoideae are longer parallel to the vein than they are wide radially. In contrast, such cells of the Eragrostoideae are wider radially than they are long. A few intermediates and a few exceptions are noted.
10.2307/2483596|The mosses Thuidium delicatulum, Climacium americanum and Hylocomium splendens have numerous pitted cells in the gametophytic stems. Some of these cells also have oblique end walls with scalariform markings. The pitted cells described contain protoplasts. These cells were isolated from the cortical region of mosses without central strands or with very small ones.
10.2307/2483291|The effects of different temperatures on growth and sporulation of Radiomyces spectabilis and R. embreei were studied. The optimum temperature for growth was 35
10.2307/2482579|1. A triploid red raspberry, growing wild at Ithaca. New York, is intermediate in its gross morphology between Rubus idaeus subsp. idaeus, as represented by the autotetraploid variety Hailsham, and R. idaeus subsp. strigosus, as illustrated in wild plants of central New York. 2. Aposporous and reduced embryo sacs were found and pseudogamy demonstrated in breeding experiments. 3. The chromosome numbers of the offspring suggest that unreduced eggs functioned parthenogenetically (in 78-92% of the seedling populations) or following fertilization. Reduced eggs of various chromosome numbers functioned after fertilization and possibly parthenogenetically.
10.2307/2996857|To determine tree species distribution and abundance and possible edaphic factors correlated with these in Piedmont forests, we examined 51 upland hardwood stands in the northern, central, and southern Piedmont of Virginia. Soil Ca, Mg, and pH (but not soil texture) were positively correlated with the first axis of a detrended correspondence analysis (DECORANA) ordination, and % clay, Ca, and Mg were positively correlated with the second axis. Quercus alba was the most abundant species, important in stands all across the ordination and providing the background against which the abundance of other species varied. Quercus prinus, Q. coccinea, Nyssa sylvatica, Liriodendron tulipifera, Q. velutina, Q. rubra, Carya spp., and Fraxinus americana/Ulmus rubra were sequentially arranged along the first axis. Acer rubrum and the much less abundant species Q. falcata and Q. stellata were important at the high percent clay end of the second axis, while Q. coccinea was most important at the low percent clay portion of that axis. In an ordination of the understory layer of the 25 northern Piedmont stands, Liriodendron tulipifera, Acer rubrum, and Nyssa sylvatica were abundant only on the low Ca, low Mg, low pH end of the first axis, and Ulmus rubra, Fraxinus americana, and Cercis canadensis were found at the opposite end of the first axis. Cornus florida and Carya spp. were spread broadly across the understory ordination, but were most important in its center, with Carya spp. most abundant on Triassic sites. None of the Quercus spp. which were dominant in the overstory were well represented in the understory. In both overstory and understory ordinations the stands at the high Ca, high Mg, high pH end of the first axis were northern Piedmont stands on Triassic formations, a geological substrate uncommon in most of the rest of the Virginia Piedmont. Since the forests of the non-Triassic portions of the Virginia Piedmont have traditionally been classified as oak-(pine)-hickory forests, the high importance of Carya spp. on the more restricted, Ca- and Mg-rich less acid Triassic substrates and their low importance in the areally extensive non-Triassic formations were unexpected.
10.2307/2484775|An analysis of snow duration gradients in the subalpine forests of southeastern Wyoming showed that some understory patchiness is due to snow banks that persist until early July. Carex geyeri and Vaccinium scoparium decrease noticeably in cover where snow persists beyond June 27 and July 4, respectively, whereas other species either increase with longer snow duration or are able to tolerate late-persisting snow. Phenophase condensation was observed in populations of V. scoparium which were covered by snow until July 6. A variety of evidence suggests that the factor affected most by snow cover duration is growing season length, which appears to affect both productivity and species composition. The potential effect on forest understory vegetation of winter snowpack augmentation by cloud seeding is discussed.
10.2307/2483076|1. The highly variable characters of the Stylosanthes biflora complex are so overlapping that no definitive lines of demarcation can separate the specimens adequately. 2. Stylosanthes riparia Fern. and Stylosanthes floridana Blake are considered synonymous with S. biflora (Mohlenbrock 1957).
10.2307/2997109|In the mid-1930's, all trees (15 cm dbh) in a 16-ha forest on the grounds of The New York Botanical Garden, Bronx, New York, were identified, measured and mapped. In 1985 the forest was resampled and the change in canopy structure and composition determined. Clustering and ordination techniques indicate that approximately 70% of the forest in the 1930's was composed of two vegetation types: a Hemlock Type and an Oak Type. In 1985 these two cover types comprised about one-third of the forest. Although Tsuga canadensis (L.) Carr. and Quercus borealis Michx. are still the most important species in the forest, a Maple/Birch/Cherry Type covers the greatest area. Several lines of evidence suggest that hurricanes, arson, human trampling and vandalism have contributed to these changes in canopy composition
10.2307/2483669|Chaparral is a mixture of shrub dominants generally lacking an understory of herbaceous plants. Recurrent fires destroy the shrub cover at intervals of 10 to 40 years. In the first growing season following fire, a luxuriant growth of annual herbs and bulb-forming perennials appears. Most shrub species, furthermore, produce seedlings. Shrub regeneration largely depends upon sprouting of surviving underground parts. With regeneration of shrub cover, seed germination ceases about 5 or 6 years following fire and herbs are again eliminated. Open shrub stands with as much as 50% bare ground, full sun, and soils annually saturated throughout the season of growth initiation fail to exhibit seed germination. Mechanical removal of shrub crowns without soil disturbance results in germination and seedling growth of some 30 species of herbs and shrubs identical in timing and aspect to that following fire. Adenostoma fasciculatum, Arctostaphylos glandulosa, and A. glauca release water soluble toxins from their crowns and leaf litter. Salvia mellifera and Lepechinia calycina release volatile terpenes. All are effective in inhibiting seed germination and herb growth. As the shrub stand regenerates following fire, toxic suppression of herbs increases until the next fire reinitiates the cycle by destroying both the toxins and their shrub source.
10.2307/2482784|1. Flagellaria guineensis Schum. is the only representative in Africa of the small, monocotyledonous family, Flagellariaceae. Growth habit of the plant, characters of flower and fruit, and mitotic chromosomes are illustrated. The species has a 2n-number of 36 small chromosomes and is the only member of the family that has been cytologically investigated. 2. A collection of F. guineensis by Baldwin in 1947 on the Cess River extended the range of the species northward from the Ivory Coast into Liberia. 3. The clusters of red fruit of Flagellaria are strikingly handsome: seed were sent from the Gold Coast in an attempt to introduce this plant into American horticulture.
10.2307/2482736|1. Kobresia schoenoides (C. A. Mey.) Steud. of Eastern Asia has androgynous lateral spikelets containing 3 stameniferous scales. 2. K. macrocarpa Clokey of Colorado and K. hyperborea Porsild of northwestern Canada have androgynous lateral spikelets containing 2 or 3 sterile scales inside the perigynia. 3. K. hyperborea var. alaskana var. nov. of Alaska has straighter leaves and larger lateral spikelets containing 2 or 3 sterile scales. 4. K. hyperborea var. lepagei var. nov. of Alaska has straighter leaves and narrower lateral spikelets with only 1 sterile scale. 5. K. simpliciuscula var. americana var. nov. of North America differs from the typical variety of Europe and Greenland by its shorter achenes and its long, scale-like stalked rachillae.
10.2307/2996516|Growth patterns of baldcypress (Taxodium distichum (L.) Rich.) and pondcypress (T. ascendens Brongn.) seedlings were examined under light levels ranging from 5-100% full sunlight. Leaf arrangement on baldcypress branchlets remained distichous under all light conditions. However, leaf arrangement on pondcypress branchlets changed from radial when grown in high light to distichous when grown in low light. Leaves of pondcypress were consistently narrower and thicker than those of baldcypress. Pondcypress branchlets became more vertically oriented when plants were grown in high light, but assumed a similar orientation to baldcypress ones when grown in low light. Baldcypress produced greater biomass, leaf area, height, and diameter growth in most light treatments than pondcypress. Maximum photosynthetic rates were higher for pondcypress on a unit leaf area basis, but not different when expressed on a leaf dry weight basis. Higher specific leaf weights, resulting in greater internal leaf surface area available for CO
10.2307/2484506|To date relatively little use has been made of electrophoretic techniques to investigate taxonomic and phylogenetic relationships among the algae. In research reported, patterns of isozymes concerned with poly-glucose synthesis in several algae including blue-greens, greens, a red, and Cyanidium caldarium Geitler, suggest a dual line of evolution from blue-greens to greens and from blue-greens to reds, with C. caldarium apparently a "bridge" organism between the blue-green and red algae. Separation of ribosomal RNA's by electrophoresis shows a clear-cut distinction between the prokaryotic and the eukaryotic algae. Isozyme patterns of nine enzymes from a number of algal strains are tabulated. Malic dehydrogenase and -esterase appear to have the most isozymes, and their patterns reinforce taxonomic conclusions based on other characters. In conclusion, electrophoresis is an additional tool that the algal taxonomist can profitably use in his studies.
10.2307/2484302|The fresh water alga Chlorella vulgaris was cultured in graded concentrations of Cd, Cu, Hg, Zn, and Pb for 33 days to determine the effects of these cations on cell division as measured by cell counts, growth monitored by cell size measurements and chlorophyll a content per cell. The effective concentration of metal which depressed cell division by 50% (EC
10.2307/2483163|1. Seventy-nine species from fifty-five genera representative of the three subfamilies of the family Leguminosae were studied. 2. In the subfamily Mimosoideae, in all species studied polyploid divisions occurred at the beginning of the mitotic activity in the root meristem. As the seedlings increased in length these divisions decreased in number. 3. In the subfamily Caesalpinioideae, polyploid divisions were found early in development of Delonyx, Cassia and Parkinsonia. Polyploid divisions were not found in Cercis chinensis, Bauhinia purpurea, Bauhinia tomentosa, Bauhinia ungulata, Bauhinia variegata, Ceratonia siliqua, Dialium indica, Erythrophloem guineense, Sinodora bruggenanmide, Trachylobium verrucosum, Peltogyne paniculata, Hymenaea courbaril, Intsia bijuga, Gymnocladus dioica, Gleditsia triacanthos, Peltophorum inerme, Caesalpinia granadillo, C. pulcherrima, C. sappan. 4. In the subfamily Papilionoideae, polyploid divisions were found in the root meristem of young seedlings of only a single genus, Aeschynomene. Sufficient seeds, however, could not be obtained for a detailed study. 5. It is suggested that the presence or absence of polyploid divisions in the development of diploid species may be a new and useful criterion for taxonomic studies.
10.2307/2997163|We analyzed three consecutive floristic censuses of Staten Island, New York, to determine (1) the general pattern of vascular plant species gains and losses over 112 years (1879-1991), (2) the extent of increases in non-native species, and (3) ecological features that characterize those species that were lost. Over forty per cent of the original native species (53% of regionally rare and endangered species) are presently missing. Most of the losses have occurred during an accelerating period of suburbanization over the last 60 yr. At the same time, the proportion of non-native species has increased from 19% to >33% of the flora, while average abundances of most native species apparently declined. Species from different habitats were lost in similar proportions, indicating that broad-scale habitat alteration has been the main factor in the flora's decline. Only two ecological features examined were statistically correlated with the missing species: (1) herbaceous species were more vulnerable than woody plants; (2) species reported to be uncommon in a previous census were more likely to be absent in the next. Unless conservation measures are improved, further degradation of this historically rich and varied flora can be anticipated.
10.2307/2996192|The flora of the Lake Champlain Valley in New York and Vermont was well-documented in the late nineteenth century, but has received little attention since then. Twenty-one new stations for rare native or introduced plants are reported, seven of which are new northeastern range extensions.
10.2307/2483400|Field observations and laboratory analyses were carried out in an attempt to evaluate the biological implications of ant habitation to Tillandsia butzii and T. caput-medusae. Numerous ant species nest in bulbs, but the ants are not genus-specific in their choice of a nesting place. Ant nest debris within bulb chambers contains considerable nitrogenous material, but nitrogen recovered from this debris is not directly available to seedlings of Aechmea pubescens Baker when provided as a nitrogen source in sterile culture. Although considerable nitrogen in bulb chambers is water soluble, assay for uric acid was negative while tests for amino nitrogen and reactivity to Folin-Ciocalteu reagent gave only weak positive results. Chromatographic analysis of soluble nitrogen extracts revealed at least three ninhydrin-positive compounds. Internal bulb surfaces possess trichome-enhanced permeability, and foliar-absorbed calcium is translocated throughout the plant body. At least some nutrient flux from ant inhabitants to surrounding leaf tissue is likely. The bulbous growth habit in certain species of Tillandsia may be an adaptation permitting these myrmecophytes to make use of a normally unavailable nutrient source
10.2307/2996495|The New York City Department of Parks and Recreation's topographic map series is a source of forest inventory data which identifies canopy trees and notes their diameters A resurvey of a 5 ha portion of the forest of Seton Falls Park, Bronx, NY in 1979 revealed errors in identifications, diameter measurements and oversight in the recording of species on the maps of the Park Changes since 1936 in the Seton Falls Park forest exceeding the maximum observed error were: increased total tree density, increased number of large trees (dbh > 20 cm) and change in dominant taxa from Quercus spp, Ulmus spp. and Acer spp. in 1936 to Quercus spp and Prunus serotina in 1979
10.2307/2484761|The flavonoids in the flowers of twenty-nine taxa of Gossypium representing most of the species in cultivation have been examined. Nine flavonol glycosides and one flavone glycoside have been identified, and in addition, a much larger number of flavonoid constituents have been characterized by chromatographic and spectrophotometric methods. The distribution of these compounds is strongly correlated with the generally accepted genomic substructure of the genus. Among diploid species native to the Old World, weak links between the species of the A, B and F genome taxa can be inferred from the flavonoid data. The Arabian (E genome) and the Australian species groups mainly appear to be isolated from each other and from the rest of the genus, with the exception of the Australian G. bickii, which shows moderate affinities with species in several other genome groupings. Although there is great variation in the flavonoid patterns in species of the New World diploids of the D genome, there is a striking similarity between the Old World cultivated species and the yellow-flowered D species. The two major pigment patterns found in the tetraploid species of the AD genome are generally similar to patterns found in species of the A and D genomes. The flavonoid patterns found in the natural polyploids are compared to those occurring in a series of synthetic diploid AD hybrids.
10.2307/2481847|1. Stems of Ephedra coryi were collected, dehydrated and permanent longitudinal and transverse sections were mounted for examination. 2. Manner of differentiation of the cells composing the internode of this plant was described to illustrate that an internodal diaphragm composed of meristematic tissue was located chiefly in the pith region of the internode and that it developed as a result of uneven cellular differentiation within that internode. 3. Maturation of cells was shown to have occurred proximally from above and distally from below the location of the diaphragm in the internode.
10.2307/2482801|1. An analysis of 100 sporogenous cells in the anther of Trillium erectum L. revealed an average of 14.65 faces per cell, the cells ranging from 9- to 21-hedra. Ninety-two combinations of cells were found; 85 occurred once, six occurred twice, one occurred three times. The types of faces ranged from triangles to decagons with a relatively low percentage of quadrilaterals, pentagons, and hexagons, and a relatively high percentage of other types. 2. The high number of faces was attributed to the occurrence of crisscrossed divisions, which are correlated with a wide distribution of face types. The cell plates of criss-crossed divisions have a high number of sides and this is also correlated with a high average number of faces. 3. An analysis of divisions by various types of cell plates was made, showing how these change the number of faces of cells in a mass. A cell plate with six sides will add 14 new faces to the cell mass for each division. Cell plates with fewer or more sides will lower or raise the number of faces added to the mass. 4. A study was made of pairs of faces in Trillium which lay in nearly the same plane. It was determined that these pairs consisted of faces of unequal area. Consideration of the two members of a pair as being one face, lowered the average number of faces to approximately 14 faces per cell. This was interpreted as being indicative of a tendency of the cells to maintain a stable arrangement.
10.2307/2996657|The structure and composition of forest edges were examined in the timberline zone of Rio Abiseo National Park in north-central Peru. Tree, shrub, and scandent plant species were inventoried in six 25 by 40 m forest plots, positioned with the long axes perpendicular to the forest-grassland boundary, and located at different elevations. Number of tree and shrub species on the 0.1 ha plots decreased from 30 to 12 (lower to higher elevation) over the 250 m elevational gradient studied; at lower elevations (3300-3350 m), there were more habitat specialists, i.e., species apparently restricted to either forest edge or forest interior. In all plots, scandent plant species were diverse (12-20 species/0.1 ha) and abundant (at total densities of 6000-10,000 stems/ha). Many were scandent by virtue of the angles formed by leaves and/or branches; none could be classified as forest-edge or -interior specialists. Forest margins were variably affected by occasional stand-destroying fires originating in the grasslands. The specifics of forest composition and structure in the timberline zone were influenced by elevation, distance from the edge, and the nature and intensity of past disturbances.
10.2307/2997178|Eight or more weeks of cold stratification (5<sup></sup>C) were required to break dormancy in achenes of Bidens laevis (L.) BSP from a tidal freshwater wetland. When achenes began to come out of dormancy, they germinated to 50% first at 35/20<sup></sup>C, and then with additional stratification the minimum temperature for 50% germination decreased to 15/6<sup></sup>C. Germination of stratified achenes was inhibited by darkness and was completely prevented by hypoxia (inundation in closed jars). Seeds inundated in open jars and those in Petri dishes, however, germinated to > 80%. Germination declined sharply with depth of burial (0, 1, and 5 cm). Moisture regime (drained, saturated, and inundated) also significantly affected germination, but afterripening condition (cold greenhouse or 5<sup></sup>C) altered the effect. Interaction between depth of burial and moisture regime was significant (P  0.05). At the end of the period of burial, nongerminated achenes transferred to the soil surface were capable of germinating over a 19 mo period. Storage conditions (0, 20, 50, and 100% relative humidity) of fresh achenes for 1 wk to 4 mo followed by at least 16 wk stratification at 5<sup></sup>C had no effect on total germination. However, storage at 0% RH for 4 mo reduced the rate of germination. Light and oxygen requirements are reflected in the responses to burial and inundation. These, in turn, provide a mechanism for maintenance of a persistent seed bank (> 1 yr) following winter afterripening of achenes in the field.
10.2307/2484285|Excised, immature embryos of barley, Hordeum vulgare L., cv. Moore, were cultured upon nutrient agar media containing abscisic acid (ABA) and ammonium ion (NH
10.2307/2997075|The essence of the method is to contain the small pieces of plant to be surface sterilized in a "Swinny" or a "Microsyringe" filter housing while the sterilizing solution and rinses are pumped back and forth through the housing by means of a B-D Cornwall pipetting syringe.
10.2307/2484354|Frantzia panamensis, endemic to Chiriqui Province is described as new. A key to the five known species of the genus is provided.
10.2307/2996416|Bottlebrush buckeye occurs on the Savannah River in west-central South Carolina. This population is disjunct nearly 300 km from the nearest known sites in Alabama and southwestern Georgia. The distribution of A. parviflora, like that of Cladrastis kentuckea, with which it cooccurs in South Carolina, is interpreted as that of a Tertiary relict that has spread onto the Coastal Plain in more recent times. Dispersal by large, floating seeds has facilitated this colonization and has restricted it to the major rivers draining the Appalachian Highlands.
10.2307/2482467|1. Gemmae of Lunularia were treated with a miscellaneous assortment of chemicals which bore no particular relation to one another. 2. The outgrowths from treated gemmae showed strange and unusual morphological divergences from normal development. 3. Each chemical produced a characteristic morphological type, different from all others. 4. Although a rough grouping could be made of certain growth reactions, each chemical caused minor variations which elude classification. 5. An attempt has been made to explain the abnormal morphological variations on the general basis of injury, inhibition, and removal of apical dominance. 6. These bases are unable to explain the large number of minor variations which were so striking a feature of the responses induced by these chemicals. 7. No permanent effects were provided by the chemical treatments here described. 8. We do not believe that the observed morphological changes can be explained by chromosomal changes.
10.2307/2483969|A triploid elm, an F
10.2307/2997096|Carex polymorpha is a globally rare sedge of eastern North America, currently a candidate for Federal listing. Allozyme phenotypes were determined for seven putative loci using plants from populations in Maine, Massachusetts, and Pennsylvania to determine levels of genetic variation within and among populations. Allozyme variation was also studied for a common and ecologically similar congener, Carex vestita, to test hypotheses regarding the genetics of rare species. For Carex polymorpha, four of the seven loci were polymorphic, with 2-4 alleles per locus. Most genetic variation was within populations, with the genetic identity among populations calculated as 0.819. Within-population genetic diversity was correlated with population size and substructuring. No significant differences were found between this species and Carex vestita, which was found to have similar levels and patterns of genetic variation. For Carex polymorpha, rarity is neither a cause nor a consequence of reduced genetic variation.
10.2307/2484641|After inoculation with mycorrhizal fungi in soil, Populus fremontii, P. grandidentata, and P. tremuloides formed ectomycorrhizae; P. heterophylla formed no mycorrhizae; P. deltoides and P. deltoides var. occidentalis formed both ecto- and endomycorrhizae. Spores isolated from endomycorrhizal P. deltoides appear to be Endogone species. Respiration rates of P. deltoides were 2.8 l 0
10.2307/2484381|In September, 1966, the red alga Bangia atropur purea (Roth) Ag. was found growing at Hamlin Beach State Park, Hamlin, New York (N. Lat. 43
10.2307/2484954|The infectivity of S. macrosporum Karling in relation to the number and diversity of plants it can be induced to infect has been demonstrated by host range studies involving algae, liverworts, mosses and ferns under greenhouse and laboratory conditions. The female gametophyte of Marchantia polymorpha, gametophytes of Selaginella sp. and 16 species of other ferns were infected in varying degrees of intensity. However, all algae and 5 species of mosses remained uninfected. These additional studies extend the host range of S. macrosporum to 1,483 species of 933 genera in 185 plant families ranging from the hepatophytes to composite flowering plants, and so far as is known this chytrid appears to be the widest-ranging obligate fungus known. Some of its resting spores or dormant prosori have remained viable so far and germinated after 20 years under 24
10.2307/2997069|A comparison of succession from old fields to forests on the inner coastal plain, outer coastal plain, and piedmont of New Jersey and the piedmont of North Carolina was made to assess the similarities and differences of succession on these areas. In all these areas, the number of introduced species decreases with age of abandonment, while native species increase. The life-form spectra of the seres are very similar. Comparison reveals some similarities in species composition but almost none in vegetation dominance. As succession proceeds through older stages the seres on the four areas become increasingly different. This increasing dissimilarity is related to the decrease of introduced species and to changing site conditions following agricultural abandonment. The piedmont of New Jersey and the inner coastal plain of New Jersey have many similarities in their successional sequences. The piedmont of North Carolina and the outer coastal plain of New Jersey have rather distinctive seres.
10.2307/2996461|Barren and seed-bearing ramets of Rhus typhina L were compared in an effort to determine how seed production influenced various components of vegetative growth. The intra-colony effects of seed production were significantly (P < 0.05) lower terminal (current year) stem growth and smaller annual ring widths of ramets. Seed-bearing colonies had significantly (P < 0 05) lower stem basal area than barren colonies. Separate regression equations were calculated for ramets from barren and seed-bearing colonies relating various components of biomass and annual production to ramet size. Significant (P < 0.001) differences between the slopes of these equations indicated sex-specific allocation patterns. Specifically, seed-bearing ramets allocated relatively more photosynthate to crown components as they increased in size. Future research on the costs and effects of sexual reproduction in trees should attempt to measure whole plant growth of individuals from a range of size classes.
10.2307/2484286|A description of oak-hickory vegetation of a preserved tract in east-central Missouri is presented. Twenty-five 100 m
10.2307/2483200|Among several carbon sources, maltose, D-glucose, and sucrose were most efficiently utilized in growth, whereas, L-sorbose and L-arabinose were poorly assimilated by isolates of H turcicum and H carbonum. Lactose stimulated sporulation of all isolates more than any other single carbohydrate H. turcicum, however, sporulated better on a mixture of L-sorbose and D-glucose than on lactose. A high frequency of abortive-type spores of H. turcicum developed on media containing L-sorbose. Organic nitrogen was utilized most efficiently for growth by both species Ammonium nitrogen was utilized poorly for both growth and sporulation.
10.2307/2996364|The effects of differences in seed weight on growth and repduction of Oenothera biennis, a facultative biennial, were examined in a greenhouse experiment. Seeds of known weight were sown onto two soil types to provide two microsite types. Per cent germination, survival and reproductive output were determined in relation to seed weight on each soil type. Seed weight effects were small (on seedling-rosette diameter) and did not persist beyond the fourth week after emergence. Soil type however, had an increasing effect on seedling growth and significantly affected rosette growth rate, final plant size and the proportion of plants flowering. There was also significant variation in the average seed weight produced in the progeny that could not be accounted for by plant size or emergence time. The effect of seed weight variation on establishment and persistence in variable environments is discussed.
10.2307/2483611|Morphology of the spores, prothalli and juvenile sporophytes of six species of Tectaria Cav. is described. The spores are monolete, and with a variously folded smooth or rarely spinous perine. The exine is usually smooth but may be granulate or spinous. On spore germination, a 3 or 4-cell-long germ filament is produced. The terminal cell may divide longitudinally either before or after formation of a terminal hair, and an obconical meristematic cell is formed by one of the daughter cells of the terminal cell, or sometimes a meristematic cell is formed laterally by one of the daughter cells of the penultimate cell. Soon, a cell plate is formed. The meristematic cell may end in a hair, another being then formed lateral to it, and the process may be repeated. Unicellular, marginal hairs are formed profusely. The thallus becomes cordate and the meristematic cell is replaced by multicellular meristem. The mature thallus is cordate and broader than long, but has a tendency to elongate and sometimes branch when old. The apical meristem is broad and the midrib is 5-8 cells thick. Unicellular, club-shaped hairs with extracellular cap-like secretions occur profusely on the margin and on both surfaces. Branched, multicellular hairs are borne on the surfaces of the mature prothalli. Antheridia and archegonia are of the usual type in advanced leptosporangiates. The early juvenile leaves are spatulate, devoid of a midrib and with lobed margins. The progression of the venation pattern to the adult leaf is described. Laminae of the juvenile leaves of T. fuscipes and T. simonsii are deeply lobed, while those of the other species are more or less entire.
10.2307/2482478|1. Clover club-leaf virus from viruliferous Agalliopsis novella and from diseased Trifolium incarnatum plants was injected, after dilution, into 100 virus-free insects of the vector species. 2. Mechanical transmission from insect to insect and from plant to insect was successful. After an incubation period of more than 4 weeks, 6 of 22insects inoculated with virus from insects and 3 of 17 inoculated with virus from plants became infective. 3. One hundred uninjected insects of the vector species, tested as controls, proved virus-free. 4. The mechanical transmission of club-leaf virus provides a technique for the detection and study of this virus in vitro.
2995977|Translocation of <sup>14</sup>C-photoassimilate was investigated in two stoloniferous plant species, Viola blanda and Viola lanceolata. In V. blanda there was extensive translocation of <sup>14</sup>C-photoassimilate among shoots connected by stolons indicating physiological integration among these shoots. Translocation within the V lanceolata plants was very limited; however, the results for both species were consistent with source-sink theory. The implication of these results are discussed in terms of the adaptive significance of vegetative spread in plants.
10.2307/2481991|1. The chromosome numbers of 44 species in 24 genera of Gramineae are reported. Of these the chromosome numbers of 25 species are reported for the first time. 2. The very restricted species Distichlis texana agrees with the wide-spread species D. spicata and D. stricta in having 2n = 40 small chromosomes. 3. Piptochaetium fimbriatum, the only species of the genus in the United States, agrees with South American species in having 2n = 44 and this chromosome number shows the relationship of this genus to Stipa, Aristida and Brachyelytrum. 4. Stipa tenuissima is aneuploid in a genus that is typically aneuploid. 5. The basic number in Panicum hians, P. obtusum and P. geminatum is x = 10. Erianthus strictus, the first American species in this genus to be studied cytologically has 2n = 30 indicating a basic number of 5 or 15. 6. The basic number in Elyonurus and Trachypogon is x = 10, with Elyonurus having, perhaps, the largest chromosomes in the Andropogoneae.
10.2307/2997050|Relationships of vegetation to environment and land-use history were investigated in fbrests of the Mary Flagler Cary Arboretum in the Hudson Valley of New York. Vegetation data were obtained from 76 1/4 ha circular plots randomly located within the forest. Environmental data collected at each plot included slope, aspect, canopy openness, soil texture and nutrients, topographic position, and presence of exposed rock; gravimetric soil moisture was determined weekly during 1985 for a subsample of 25 stands. Land-use history information came from historical records (land deeds and U.S. and N.Y.S. census records), stone-fence locations, landscape patterns in stand ages, an old aerial photograph, and soils data. Vegetation analyses identified three major community types. One group of stands, dominated by chestnut oak (Quercus prinus L.) and northern red oak (Quercus rubra L.), occurred on steep, rocky, upper slope sites never cleared for agriculture. Distinct vertical stratification of dominant canopy species in these stands is consistent with a probable history of intensive selective cutting early in this century. Both of the other major community types occurred primarily on abandoned agricultural land. Stands dominated by white oak (Quercus alba L.), black oak (Quercus velutina Lam.) and pignut hickory (Carya glabra (Mill.) Sweet) tended to occur at lower elevations on rocky, nutrient poor sites probably derived from abandoned pastures. The significantly more open canopy in these stands, less distinct vertical stratification of canopy trees, and a diverse herbaceous understory frequently including grasses and sedges, also suggests very gradual invasion of these forests onto old pasture sites. The third major vegetation type, dominated by red maple (Acer rubrum L.) and white pine (Pinus strobus L.), tended to occur on finer textured, less rocky old field sites possibly abandoned from cultivation. Comparison of current vegetation with witness tree data from early land survey records suggests that the white oak-black oakhickory type was prevalent on lower slope sites prior to forest cleating, but has declined in importance relative to the red maple type during the past 100 years of abandonment of land from agriculture.
10.2307/2997183|Solidago sempervirens L. var. mexicana (L.) Fern. is near the northern limit of its range in southern New York and is on the New York rare and endangered species list. Recent field work on Long Island, N.Y. resulted in its rediscovery; this is the first time it has been collected in New York in over 45 years, and the first time on Long Island in over 70 years. A synopsis of the taxonomic history of the taxon is presented, with particular attention paid to its status in New York.
10.2307/2481993|1. Results obtained during the second year of screening of extracts of seed plants for presence of substances antagonistic to M. tuberculosis, are presented. 2. Species belonging to 87 families were tested during two consecutive years. Seventy-one families appear in the test covered by the present report, 37 of which had representatives in the first year's test. The total number of species investigated in two years is 360; the second testing period, analyzed in this paper, includes 199 of them. 3. Forty-two species were found to contain principles controlling the growth of M. tuberculosis, 19 of which had specific actvity. Antibacterial action against Staph. aureus, S. typhimurium, and E. coli was also recorded.
10.2307/2995986|The New Jersey Pine Barren Plains are three distinct, dwarfed, upland pine-oak forests characterized by very high tree population and sprouts/genet densities and canopy height typically less than 3 m. Recent investigations suggest that nutrients may be more limiting for growth in the Plains than in non-dwarfed upland Pine Barrens pine-oak forests. We have initiated a long-term investigation of ectomycorrhizal density responses to fire in recently-burned Plains areas to determine fire effects on ectomycorrhizal communities and therefore on nutrient dynamics. Our initial data suggest that, following a short lag period, ectomycorrhizal hyphal densities decrease following fire in the Plains in contrast to the expected increase.
10.2307/2483720|A comparative study was made of microsporogenesis of Dodecatheon meadia L. ssp. meadia and of the related French's shooting star, including pollen stainability. It was confirmed that the former taxon is tetraploid (n=44); however, the latter was found to be diploid (n=22). Coenocytia and syncytia and other developmental disturbances found in French's shooting star anthers were analyzed. The cytological, morphological, and ecological differences, as well as the genetic barrier existing between the two taxa, indicate that French's shooting star is a distinct species and should be ranked as D. frenchii (Vasey) Rydb. The relationship between both taxa concerning their origin is discussed.
10.2307/2484711|Descriptions of the wood anatomy of Nepenthaceae, a monogeneric family, are offered for the first time. Data from three species show wide, short vessel elements characteristic of lianas, but also presence of fusiform vessel elements and of tracheids. Vestigial scalariform perforation plates with one or two bars occur on only a few vessel elements. Axial parenchyma is banded plus diffuse; rays are mostly uniseriate plus biseriate. Axial and ray parenchyma cells have bordered pits. Details of wood anatomy are consistent with a thealean relationship for the family.
10.2307/2483771|Bare areas frequently occur under hackberry trees, although several herbaceous species may grow relatively well under adjacent tree species which cast just as dense shade. No significant differences were found in pH, texture, organic carbon or amounts of any of the mineral elements sampled under hackberry as compared with control soils under plum trees in the University of Oklahoma Grasslands Plots. Percent soil moisture was always significantly higher under hackberry trees than under plum trees. The failure of herbaceous species to grow well under hackberry was not due primarily to physical factors or to deficiencies in minerals, water, or light. Decaying leaves of hackberry, leaf leachate and soil collected from under hackberry trees in January 1970 significantly reduced seed germination and seedling growth of Andropogon gerardi, A. scoparius, Panicum virgatum, and Sorghastrum nutans. Scopolin, scopoletin, ferulic acid, caffeic acid, p-coumaric acid and gentisic acid were identified as the chief phytotoxins produced in hackberry leaves. Thus, it appears that the bare areas associated with hackberry trees are due primarily to allelopathy.
10.2307/2482044|1. Specimens of Arundinaria observed in eastern North Carolina do not fit the descriptions for either A. tecta or A. gigantea, the two species generally treated in descriptive keys. 2. Cane seeds collected the second week in May were viable and new seedlings appeared in June from seed dispersed in May. 3. Large quantities of seed were produced but most of them were destroyed by an insect larva before they were dispersed. 4. Destruction of seed by insect larvae was controlled by dusting with 5 per cent DDT. 5. Natural seedlings develop very slowly; those observed were less than a foot tall by the end of the third growing season. 6. Cultivated seedlings develop more rapidly; at about twice the rate for natural seedlings.
10.2307/2483914|Variation in Bouteloua curtipendula var. caespitosa was investigated: a. by the comparison of variation in two individual characters throughout the range of the taxon, and b. by the study of patterns of association of 8 characters in selected population samples. Data presented suggest that this taxon, characterized by high aneuploid chromosome numbers and irregular meiosis, has evolved through hybridization of as many as 10 diploid and tetraploid taxa. Further, the data suggest that introgression and hybridization between these taxa and var. caespitosa is actively continuing where these taxa come in contact.
10.2307/2484287|Fifteen specific androgenetic haploids of Gossypium hirsutum L. x G. barbadense L., produced by semigamy using the VSg-7 line of G. barbadense as the female parent, were doubled with an 0.5% aqueous solution of colchicine. The solution was applied by a cotton-wrap method for 24 hr. An injection method was also used. These methods doubled 75 and 60% of treated plants, respectively, but the injection method was more economical and convenient than the cotton-wrap method. Six doubled haploids were compared to their parents in a randomized-complete block design. The doubled haploids and their parents differed significantly. They were found superior to parents in some characteristics, intermediate in most, and inferior in others.
10.2307/2483752|A red oak damaged by fire in April 1962, was felled and cross sectioned at one foot intervals in Sept. 1964. In some lower sections, an annual growth ring was not formed on the scorched side of the tree, the season following fire. Complete rings were formed two and three years after fire.
10.2307/2996447|We investigated the effects ofsalinity on seed germination and plant water relations within the context of dispersal in sea water for the legume, Strophostyles umbellata. This hard-seeded, trailing herb is common on coastal barrier islands of Virginia, USA. Even after 3 weeks of exposure to sea water (30 per mil salinity) seed germination still approached 100%. Scarification was required for seeds to imbibe and germinate; thus non-scarified seeds did not imbibe sea water during exposure. Germination of scarified seeds occurred at salinities up to 20 per mil. In contrast to seed germination, plants were more sensitive; stomatal conductance and xylem pressure potential were significantly reduced at 2 per mil salinity. Soil pore water salinity was also low; 70% of the soil samples collected from a barrier island population of S. umbellata were < 1 per mil salinity. Due to seed salinity resistance, non-scarified seeds could be dispersed by ocean currents and remain germinable. Successful plant establishment will then occur if precipitation leaches the salts from the sandy island soils.
10.2307/2483495|The developmental pattern-conforms, in general, to the "Elsinoe" type as defined by Miller (1938) and Luttrell (1951) except for the lack of sex organs and nature of interascal tissue separating the asci. The mode of sexual reproduction consists of "spontaneous heterokaryosis" with absence of croziers or hooks. The interascal tissue separating the monascal locules is entirely composed of binucleate ascogenous cells thus showing its relationship with the Plectomycetes. The ascocarp is in the nature of an ascostroma with bitunicate asci scattered within the fertile region and the fungus must be considered as a stromatic member of the Ascoloculares (Luttrell, 1951).
10.2307/2482268|Thymol, carvacrol, and "Stabilizer #1" (a mixture of isopropyl meta and para cresols) are fungistatic to Aspergillus niger, A. sydowi, Penicillium crustosum, P. cyaneum, P. cyclopium, P. olivino-viride, and P. waksmani in concentrations approximating 0.025%. These materials produce visible morphological changes in germinating fungus spores, studied chiefly in Aspergillus niger, which are evident as pronounced enlargement or abnormal swelling of the conidia. Such changes occur only within a narrow range of concentrations of these materials which coincides closely with their fungistatic dosages. It is therefore suggested that the mechanism of fungistasis by thymol and related substances involves alteration in osmotic and permeability characteristics of the spores.
10.2307/2996036|Epicotyl segments from 2 to 5-day-old young seedlings of Pisum sativum were used for initiation of callus tissues in MS medium supplemented with thirty-six combinations of auxins and cytokinins. The callus showed better growth in NAA at 2 mg/l with either kinetin or BAP at 0.5 mg/l. Shoots were formed in high frequency from the callus tissues when transferred to MS medium containing IAA (0.2 mg/l) and BAP (5 mg/l) under the cultural conditions of 16 h light (5000 lux at 22
10.2307/2997181|Invasion of old fields by trees occurs much more slowly at the Cedar Creek Natural History Area, Minnesota, than is typical of most areas in the eastern and central United States. Many old fields abandoned from agriculture more than 50 years ago lack a tree canopy. Tree density, height, and average distance from the forest margin were all positively correlated with time since field abandonment. Most tree saplings over 20 cm tall were browsed by white-tailed deer during the winter. Tree growth was significantly greater inside deer exclosures; however, the difference in growth rate for trees inside and outside of exclosures was much smaller than anticipated. Pocket gophers killed 1-2% of tagged trees per year, thus representing a significant source of mortality over the extended time period during which Cedar Creek old fields are invaded by trees. Mortality during and immediately after a drought in 1988 was more than double the mortality in other years. Removal of herbaceous vegetation around oak saplings resulted in a significant increase in stem diameter growth. Although cover of woody plants is positively correlated with soil nitrogen, fertilization did not increase growth of oak saplings. Nutrient poor soils, slow growth rates, herbivory, and climatic factors all probably contribute to the slow invasion of Cedar Creek old fields by trees, and the extended period during which herbaceous plants dominate old field succession at Cedar Creek.
10.2307/2997128|The vascular flora of Assateague Island, Virginia is based exclusively on collections made by the authors from October 1986 to October 1988. Altogether, 443 vascular plant species in 272 genera and 99 families are here reported. Of these, 58 species are new records for Assateague Island, and 157 species are confirmed for the Virginia portion of the island for the first time. Two species are state records for Virginia. Largest families are Poaceae (77 species) and Asteraceae (62 species), and largest genera are Panicum, Juncus, Eleocharis, Aristida and Eupatorium.
10.2307/2482533|Two new species, Mahonia grantiana Brown, n. sp. and M. limirivuli Brown, n. sp. are described from paleobotanical collections of the late Dr. R. W. Brown.
10.2307/2997164|Long-term changes in the composition and structure of an upland hardwood forest in south-central New York were quantified by resurvey of 22 permanent plots originally established in 1935. In 1935 most of the forest consisted of stands recovering from disturbance by logging in the late 19th century, and most of the plots underwent timber stand improvement in 1934 that reduced basal area by an average of about one-third. Average basal area nearly doubled during the 50 year period, and basal area of the individual plots converged from widely disparate values in 1935 to about 32 m
10.2307/2484447|Statistical analysis of character state distributions for populations of Mikania in Florida were used to determine if the epithet M. batataefolia should be applied to these populations. Ecological tolerances, pollen characters, and chromosome counts were also examined. Data indicated only two species can be discerned in the Florida populations and that M. batataefolia should not be applied to the Florida populations. The data also suggest that M. scandens may be in part autogamous.
10.2307/2997053|The soil seed bank of a mixed coastal plain forest in southern New Jersey (USA) was surveyed by recording germination in soil samples from 34 forest stands. Historical records indicate that stands had not been tilled or clear-cut for at least 100 years prior to the study. The seed flora was dominated by herbaceous species typical of early successional and disturbed habitats, but generally absent from the mature forest community. Seed distributions ranged from mildly to strongly clustered at the scale of 100 cm
10.2307/2483356|A new species of Machaeranthera is described from Ash Meadows, Nye County, Nevada. It is most closely related to M. leucanthemifolia (Greene) Greene, but differs in being a strict winter annual with numerous morphological discontinuities separating the two species. So far as known, the new species is endemic to sand dune areas along the western margin of Ash Meadows.
10.2307/2482871|These experiments indicate that Gleocercospora sorghi requires both thiamin and biotin for growth. The optimal biotin concentration is approximately 5 g./1. although the fungus was able to grow almost as well on media containing 0.5 g. to 10 g./1. of biotin. Growth was best at 25 g. of thiamin HCl/1., but there was little difference over a range of 10 g to 1 mg. of the vitamin/1. Growth occurred when the concentration of biotin or of thiamin was as low as 0.02 g./1. Other vitamins, added singly or in various combinations, did not support growth of the fungus, nor was its growth enhanced by the addition of other vitamins to a medium containing biotin and thiamin.
10.2307/2484300|Study of sixteen populations of biennial Sedum species in the Sierra Madre Occidental and on the Mexican Plateau in the states of Chihuahua, Durango, and Hidalgo reveals important differences in the leaves and roots of seedlings, the manner in which the plants survive the first winter, and also in the floral parts and seeds. Length of seeds, petals, and nectaries, and width of nectaries as well, are the least variable dimensions within species. Seedlings of six species are described for the first time. For purposes of identification, sheets for the herbarium need a seedling collected at the end of the first growing season, a plant with flowers, and another with mature fruits. Ten biennial species occur in the area covered. Sedum quadripetalum and S. spathulisepalum are described as new.
10.2307/2484301|Robinia pseudoacacia, Pinus Strobus, and P. resinosa seedlings were planted in study plots on bituminous stripmine spoils and inoculated with either soil, macerated roots, Cenococcum graniforme, or Suillus luteus. After six growing seasons, survival was not significantly increased by any treatment. Growth of P. resinosa was significantly increased when inoculated with macerated P. resinosa roots or with S. luteus. P. Strobus showed a significant increase in growth when inoculated with C. graniforme or macerated P. Strobus roots. Pinus spp. had 90-100% mycorrhizal roots while R. pseudoacacia had 5-35%. Almost 60% of the volunteer woody plants invading the study plots were found in the subplots inoculated with C. graniforme or macerated roots. Pisolithus tinctorius may be the mycorrhizal symbiont in the macerated root inoculum.
10.2307/2484628|Seeds of common ragweed were stratified in light or dark for 4, 11 and 15 weeks. Half of each of these treatments was given the opposite (dark or light) treatment during incubation, while the other half continued to receive the same treatment during incubation for 15 days at each of 4 constant and 4 alternating temperature regimes. Light during incubation, increased stratification time, and alternating incubation temperatures significantly increased germination; light during stratification had no significant effect. In nature, seeds near the surface of the soil are probably exposed to light and experience wider temperature fluctuations than do buried seeds. We suggest that the germination behavior, especially with regard to light and temperature fluctuation, is a major adaptive feature for the establishment of ragweed populations on disturbed sites.
10.2307/2996140|Composition, structure, and productivity of a mesic forest stand at the Radnor Lake State Scientific Area near Nashville, TN were examined for the period 1976 to 1986. Species diversity significantly decreased due to a substantial increase in community dominance by Acer saccharum during the study period. Virtually all other species had mortality in excess of recruitment to the tree size class (0.8 dm
10.2307/2997124|Size-dependent morphometric relationships were established for two dominant tree species (Acacia tortilis and Acacia reficiens) in an arid tropical ecosystem of northern Kenya. We found relationships for both multi-stemmed species between aboveground biomass and the aggregate of diameters of all stems. Relationships between aggregate stem diameter and crown diameter suggested that large individuals had smaller crown diameter increments per increment in aboveground biomass. Acacia tortilis displayed a pronounced developmental transition from low biomass-open crown to heavy trunk-dense crown morphology at sizes of 63-223 mm stem diameter. Stem diameter of A. tortilis increased by 2 mm for each tree ring among small trees. While rings may not be exactly annual, an average of one ring may be produced per year. Root systems of both species were a mixture of tap and lateral roots. There was a concentration of root biomass in the surface meter of soil and most root biomass was accounted for in the top 2.5 m of soil. A logarithmic relationship between root biomass and stem diameter applied to both small and large trees. Although large trees had tap roots with large diameters, these were not necessarily deep. Root: shoot ratios declined from 1.5 in small trees to 0.2 in mid and large trees.
10.2307/2484957|This study of subalpine snowbanks in Olympic National Park, Washington, shows that there was a sharp gradient in the degree and type of microenvironmental modification resulting from the snowbank, primarily because of variation in time of snow release. Subalpine meadow communities were distributed according to tolerance to depth and duration of snowpack. Of the four meadow communities specifically studied, the alpine community was not affected by the snowbank, the mesic grass community was only influenced in the winter, and the tall sedge and dwarf sedge communities were influenced by snow in the summer. Phenological states of dominant meadow species were significantly related to the date of snow release. The timing of maximum standing crop biomass and the magnitude of mean daily productivity were also affected by snowmelt. Snowbanks controlled soil moisture, so that a gradient of increasing water availability with more recent snow release was evident.
10.2307/2484261|Stems and roots of Halophytum ameghinoi, a xeromorphic annual of Argentina, accumulate scanty secondary xylem. Inner secondary xylem is rayless, consisting only of very short and narrow vessel elements with simple perforation plates and nucleate libriform fibers. Outermost xylem of the oldest axes has low and narrow vascular rays with predominantly upright cells. These woods exhibit some similarities with inner secondary xylem of certain Aizoaceae and Phytolaccaceae, but these comparisons do not clarify the placement of Halophytaceae. Possible phylogenetic relationships of Halophytum within Chenopodiales are briefly discussed.
10.2307/2482888|1. The shoot apex of Glycine max is a low dome of meristematic cells varying from 80  to 120  in diameter. Four zones may be delimited: the tunica, the central initiation zone, the peripheral zone, and the rib meristem zone. The tunica consists of two layers of cells. 2. The leaf primordium is first indicated by periclinal divisions in the outer corpus layers. When the leaf primordium has reached a height of about 80  to 90  the next leaf is initiated. 3. Stipules are initiated at both sides of the base of the leaf primordium when it is about 60  to 80  high. They arise from the inner tunica layer; the outer corpus contributes slightly to the base of the stipule. 4. When the leaf primordium is 140  to 200  in height the opposite lateral leaflets begin to form at the adaxial margins of the primordium. Increased cell divisions in these regions elevate the two papillate primordia. In the meantime, the apical region of the leaf primordium differentiates into a terminal leaflet. 5. Laminal initiation starts when the leaf is 380  high. Later on there are six definite layers of cells in the blade meristem. 6. The axillary bud appears in the axil of the second leaf. The initial cells are just adaxial to the base of the leaf primordium and are at first continuous with the apical meristem. Later on a narrow "shell zone" is formed surrounding the group of initial derivatives. This work was done at the University of Oklahoma, Norman, Oklahoma. The writer wishes to thank Dr. N. H. Boke for his kind advice during the investigation. The writer also wishes to express his appreciation to Dr. H. W. Larsh for use of laboratory facilities.
10.2307/2484899|Dubautia imbricata and D. pauciflorula are described as two very distinctive new species from the Wahiawa Stream drainage, Wahiawa Mts., Kauai. The chromosome number of 2n = 14
10.2307/2996139|Seed dispersal and seedling establishment of three dominant tree species were studied on disturbed and undisturbed sites for 3 years (1984-1986) at the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest in New Hampshire, USA. In the undisturbed northern hardwood forest, year-to-year variation in seed production was smaller for a large-seeded species (Fagus grandifolia Ehrh.) than for species with small (Betula alleghaniensis Brit) or medium-sized seeds (Acer saccharum Marsh.), and production of seeds by the latter two species differed by several orders of magnitude between years. Recruitment of seedlings into the forest understory correlated with differences in seed input. Seed production of B alleghaniensis, F grandifolia and A saccharum in the undisturbed forest in 1984-1985 (a good seed year) was 9297, 59, and 264 seeds m
10.2307/2996042|When relative growth rates are calculated by harvest date without reference to actual age of the seedlings, structural and developmental variation are confounded. If seeds germinate over an extended period, many seedlings harvested late in the experiment are actually quite young. This effect increases the variance in plant size and biases growth rate estimates based on harvest date. In an experiment designed to separate these sources of variance in regressions of individual plant weight for seedlings of Andropogon scoparius Michx., age predicts log (plant weight) much better than does harvest date. The growth rate based on age is 46% higher than that based on harvest date. When the effects of age are accounted for, there remains a small group of particularly slowly growing plants with disproportionately large influence on estimates of growth rate. Regression through medians corrects for this effect to some extent, but trimmed regression is a more successful means of discounting aberrant individuals and removing triangular scatter from the data. The growth rate estimate based on age for trimmed regression is 11% higher than that from the entire data set.
10.2307/2484747|Using a collection of 120 modern shade leaves, the interrelationships among 21 primary leaf characters used to classify fossil angiosperm leaves were examined. Each character was qualitative and measured some aspect of external leaf morphology. The standardized data were analyzed by two methods First, a phenogram was constructed from a similarity matrix of distances using the UPGMA clustering algorithm. Second, an ordination diagram was drawn using the coordinates of the characters in a three-dimensional space obtained by principal components analysis. Both methods indicated that the characters were statistically interrelated
10.2307/2996562|Comparison of 1962 and 1984 vegetation samples from Buffalo Beats, a prairie remnant on a hilltop lens of calcareous clay soil surrounded by a southeastern Ohio mixed oak forest on shale soil, showed that typical prairie grasses and forbs in the prairie and surrounding forested transition zone had decreased in cover and frequency An increase in herbaceous species richness in the prairie and transition zone was due to an increase in the number of forest species. By 1984, Rhus radicans had invaded the prairie and, along with other shrubs and vines, covered about half the area dominated by prairie species in 1962. Since 1962, tree seedling and sapling density increased in the prairie, seven-fold within the central 0.12 ha, and in the transition zone and forest Density of trees in the smaller, >2.5-9.9 cm dbh, size class decreased in both the transition zone and forest, perhaps as a result of natural thinning. Tree carrying capacity appears to be limited in the clay of the transition zone, where tree canopy composition, structure, and successional patterns differ from the surrounding forest. To increase light levels and slow litter accumulation, overhanging limbs of Quercus alba, which dominated the transition zone, and woody species in most of the transition zone were removed in 1986. This resulted in increased abundance and flowering by prairie species but had little effect on or even increased invading vines and seedlings. Continued cutting of woody species and a controlled burning program may prevent disappearance of the prairie and promote its recovery.
10.2307/2482232|1. Tobacco and tomato plants were reciprocally grafted in the late seedling stage. 2. Measurements of height, stem diameter, leaf number, and leaf size showed some temporary differences between grafted plants and controls grafted on stocks of the same species. 3. Except for a height advantage which the tomato on tobacco plants held over the tomato on tomato plants and stem diameter effects, none of the differences observed persisted to maturity. 4. Total nitrogen and phosphorus determinations on apical leaves, basal leaves, upper scion stems and stock stems failed to reveal any differences with respect to the concentration of nitrogen or phosphorus. 5. No modification of genetic constitution was noted.
10.2307/2484941|An association of Verbena stricta, V. bracteata, V. halei, V. urticifolia and derived interspecific hybrids was studied in southern Oklahoma. All hybrids but one involved V. stricta parentage. Of the four species, V. stricta produces the largest and most aggregated blossoms, the most accessible pollen, and the greatest quantity of nectar. This species is visited by the broadest spectrum of insects including Hymenoptera, Diptera, and Lepidoptera. Pollen-carrying visitors were noted in common on each of the remaining three species. Insect exclusion and artificial pollination experiments indicate that V. stricta is an outcrossing species with low seed-set through self-fertilization. Verbena halei and V. urticifolia are highly autogamous and V. bracteata less so. The likelihood that V. stricta will enter interspecific hybridization is greater than that for the other species. Number, frequency, and pollen-carrying ability of interspecific pollen vectors favor crosses with V. stricta involving V. urticifolia and V. halei.
10.2307/2996836|Four life zones are recognized for humid climates in eastern Mexico; these are: (1) Selva Alta Perennifolia or Tropical Rain Forest (TRF), (2) Selva de Orizaba or Orizaban Rain Forest (ORF), (3) Bosque Mexicano de Dicotyledoneas Holarcticos or Mexican Holarctic Dicotyledonous Forest (MHDF), and (4) Bosque Mexicano de Abetos y Cipresos or Mexican Holarctic Coniferous Forest (MHCF). Using the criteria of H. P. Bailey, seventeen climate stations within these four forest zones are characterized as follows: (1) TRF, Very Warm, Subtemperate; (2) ORF, Warm, Temperate; (3) MHDF, Mild/Warm, Very Temperate; (4) MHCF, Very Cool, Very Temperate. All of these Mexican stations enjoy more equable and less frosty climates than the continuum of life zones in eastern United States-Canada.
10.2307/2484510|Additionally collected plant fossils from the Oligocene/Miocene Beaverhead Basins flora in southwestern Montana yielded a segment of a grass inflorescence named Graminites andropogonoides n. sp., which corroborates the postulated subhumid aspect of the flora and its age. The fossil remains show affinity to the modern Andropogon scoparius Michaux from Montana and other western and southwestern localities of the United States.
10.2307/2484657|Anatomical study of a new specimen of Pinnus lynni Berry reveals two departures from structural conditions known in modern Pinus cones. The bract trace of the fossil is a slender strand that fades out before, or in some cases just after, entering the free part of the bract; in Pinus cones it is a stout strand that extends nearly to the bract apex. Furthermore, bracts of the fossil cone separate from their associated scales as they do in cones of Abies, Larix, and Tsuga rather than as in Pinus. Thus, Pityostrobus (Nathorst) Dutt is the appropriate genus for Berry's species. The transfer makes it the second member of this fossil genus recorded from the Tertiary and indicates the persistence of at least two different lineages of the Cretaceous ancestral complex of the Pinaceae into the Cenozoic.
10.2307/2996108|The vegetation of Nassau County includes 20 different communities; 7 wetland, 3 swamp, 6 upland, 3 stream, and one pond type The vegetation in the area is largely dependent on the depth to the water table or the depth of surface water The vegetation in the western section of the study area (Sewage Disposal District 2) has been disturbed by, and responded to, past sewering and other factors and has experienced successional replacement sequences toward drier types of vegetation Here, the vegetation contains more upland communities and younger communities are more prevalent than in eastern areas (Sewage Disposal District 3). Eastern sections of Nassau County have experienced both more recent and less disturbance and as a result have more extensive aquatic, wetland and swamp vegetation than western areas.
10.2307/2484004|A detailed anatomical study of buds on the roots of two species of the Hawaiian endemic fern genus Amphoradenium reveals their origin to be in the pericycle. Following the formation of a meristematic mass of cells, the apex, primary leaf and first root differentiate independently in a manner very similar to primary organ formation in normal fern embryos. The association of the bud with the parent root is described with particular emphasis on the differentiation of the vascular tissue. Although large populations of the plant are formed by root buds, the sexual life cycle is not replaced by vegetative reproduction. Spores collected from mature plants (which had developed from root buds) are viable, and when sown on nutrient agar sporophytes develop in 40-45 days. The role of adventitious bud formation is discussed briefly with reference to the ecology of Amphoradenium.
10.2307/2996230|A nannyberry (Viburnum lentago L.) shrub community on a post-agricultural site has exhibited remarkable resistance to invasion by the surrounding hardwood forest species for at least 55 years. Since the initial survey in 1953 the density of Viburnum stems > 2.5 cm dbh has dramatically declined from 14 x 10
10.2307/2996779|From 1964 through 1984, nine forest sites, ranging in size from 2.6 to 27.5 ha, were each burned from two to 19 times. Percent cover of 13 of 14 true-prairie grasses was positively correlated with burn frequency. Of these, eight have C4 and six have C3 photosynthetic pathways. Cover of 34 of 39 true-prairie forbs, and of Amorpha canescens, increased with frequency of burning. All except Aster oolentangiensis are C3 species. Cover of six of seven native, not prairie, species, all C3, decreased with increasing burn frequency. These data suggest that the adaptation of true-prairie species to repeated burning outweighs the effects of their photosynthetic pathways.
10.2307/2483380|Anatomical observations made on leaf blades and fructifications of the genera of the tribe Lagenocarpeae and Sclerieae of the family Cyperaceae have led to the conclusion that the two tribes are taxonomically separable. The evolutionary trends of anatomical characters in association with gross morphological characters have been discussed thoroughly. The anatomical evidence for the origin of the cupule or utricle in Sclerieae has also been considered.
10.2307/2996102|A histological investigation into the origin of offshoots and inflorescences produced from Phoenix dactylifera L., date palm, plantlets derived from lateral bud callus, excised zygotic embryos, and shoot tip cultures was conducted Plantlets, about 2-4 months of age, could exhibit offshoot production when grown on a basal nutrient media supplemented with 0 1 mg/l -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) Histological examination revealed that these additional shoots were derived from a common shoot axis via lateral bud proliferations Suckering occurred in about 40 per cent of the asexual plantlets derived from callus; suckering was observed from plantlets derived from excised embryos and shoot tips somewhat less frequently (10 per cent and 20 per cent, respectively) Inflorescences were sometimes produced from these lateral bud outgrowths in cultured shoot tip and excised embryo cultures Inflorescence production occurred on nutrient media containing 0 1 mg/l NAA and 5-15 mg/l benzyl adenine, kinetin, or N
10.2307/2484611|Enceliopsis nudicaulis var. corrugata Cronq., from Ash Meadows, Nevada, and vicinity, differs from the more northern var. nudicaulis in its smaller, strongly ruffledcorrugate leaves.
10.2307/2483774|The brown alga Dictyota binghamiae J G. Agardh has been found at widely separated locations in Washington State. Heretofore, this alga was recorded only as far north as Coos Bay, Oregon
10.2307/2484664|Spores of Funaria hygrometrica Hedw., Weissia controversa Hedw., Mnium cuspidatum Hedw., Amblystegium serpens (Hedw.) B.S.G., Pohlia nutans (Hedw.) Lindb. and Physcomitrium pyriforme (Hedw.) Hampe were sown on filter papers impregnated with acetone-soluble extracts of each of the terricolous lichen species Cladonia subcariosa Nyl., Cladonia cristatella Tuck., and Cladonia squamosa (Scop.) Hoffm., and saturated with three concentrations of Hoagland's solution (0%, 25%, 50%). Percent spore germination was determined for each moss species and compared to spore germination for controls. All species except Amblystegium serpens and Pohlia nutans showed complete inhibition of spore germination in the presence of the lichen extracts. Amblystegium exhibited delayed germination and Pohlia exhibited reduced germination in the presence of the lichen extracts. The ecological significance of this inhibitory influence in habitats where terricolous cryptograms coexist may thus be considerable.
10.2307/2996024|Roots of Paulownia tomentosa were endomycorrhizal in field and nursery collections Spores of an E-strain fungus were found in soil in the root areas of nursery grown P tomentosa and Pinus strobus in greater numbers than in unvegetated buffer strips The ecological implications are of particular interest since E-strain fungi are apparently ectendomycorrhizal with pine species and perhaps saprophytic in the rhizosphere of an endomycorrhizal species, Paulownia
10.2307/2995937|In Brachyelytrum the embryo has a scutellar cleft, the seedling has a short first internode and no adventitious roots, root epidermal cells are uniformly sized, and leaves bear inconspicuous osmophilic layers in the mestome sheath cell walls. These data as well as previously published findings indicate that Brachyelytrum is most closely allied with the Bambusoideae, especially the herbaceous bambusoid grasses. It should be placed in the subfamily Bambusoideae, at least provisionally, until more is known about these taxa. There are, nevertheless, important differences in leaf anatomy between the Bambusoideae and Brachyelytrum. The eastern North American-eastern Asian disjunction of Brachyelytrum suggests a Laurasian origin, and its ancestors may have become adapted to the mesic forests of the Tertiary, perhaps accounting for the differences in leaf anatomy.
10.2307/2483414|Natural hybrids thought to arise from the interspecific crossing of A. latiglume and A. scribneri were found at an alpine site in the Bridger Mountain Range near Bozeman, Montana. Morphological, cytological and serological analysis of the hybrid and the putative parents substantiated the conclusion as to the origin of the hybrid. Pollen mother cell analysis revealed that the two parental species are strict allotetraploids. A close genome relationship between the parental species was indicated by chromosome pairing in the tetraploid hybrid. Based on the genome formula proposed by Dewey for A. scribneri, the genome formula for A. scribneri and A. latiglume would be A
10.2307/2484202|A probable evolutionary development of haustoria is traced within the Uredinales in 51 species of rusts belonging to 21 genera. It is concluded that rust fungi are originally strict intercellular parasites without haustoria. Primitive haustoria were probably spherical and vesicular; they may then have evolved into digitate, hyphoid and other complex types. As the haustoria became bigger the importance of the haustorial mother cell was lost. In a few species, e.g., Scopellopsis dalbergiae, Ravenelia sessilis and R. berkelyei, the haustoria have disappeared and the entire vegetative body is intracellular.
10.2307/2483913|Gifford woods is dominated by Acer saccharum with smaller amounts of Fagus grandifolia, Fraxinus americana, Betula lutea, Ulmus americana, Tsuga canadensis and Tilia americana. The stand, a remnant of old-age hemlock-northern hardwoods forest, is located near the upper altitudinal limit of this forest type in central Vermont. Soil underlying the forest is mostly a coarse mull with thin duff mull on steep slopes and well-drained knolls. The herbaceous flora is comparatively rich with a total of 84 species. Nineteen of these are ferns and fern allies which also contribute about 3 times as much cover as all other herbaceous plants put together. The reproductive mechanisms of sugar maple (Acer saccharum) are considered.
10.2307/2483094|1. Two new species, S. variabilum and S. parksii were found on Ranunculus occidentalis and Trifolium microdon in California. These are long-cycled and develop a prosorus in the sporangial phase, and for this reason they are placed temporarily in the subgenus Microsynchytrium. 2. In addition two unidentified species were found on Trifolium sp., T. dichotomum and T. involucratum. These are long-cycled also, resemble S. marginale in some respects, and are included provisionally in Microsynchytrium.
10.2307/2483700|Races 1, 5, 15, 53, and 104B of Puccinia recondita Rob. ex Desm. behaved similarly within a specific light-temperature combination with respect to total soluble protein and cell-wall weight. An increase in temperature from 16 to 24 C caused a significant decrease in soluble protein and cell-wall weight without a change in spore size or color. Disc electrophoresis revealed 12 visible protein bands arranged in the same order from uredospores of each race. The band intensity varied among rust races grown at various light-temperature combinations.
10.2307/2482482|1. Four new chromosomal types of Xanthisma texanum were found. Three of these types contained one, three and four supernumeraries respec-tively. The fourth was a tetraploid with two supernumeraries.2. Microsporogenesis in these types is described. 3. The sterility of the tetraploid was studied and found to be due to "somatoplastic sterility."
10.2307/2483646|The foliar uptake of calcium-45, zinc-65 and water through the leaf blade surfaces of diverse species of the Bromeliaceae was investigated using excised leaf discs or whole leaf blades. Zinc uptake ranged 50-fold among these surfaces; it was highest among four xeric tillandsias and relatively low in 16 bromelioid, pitcairnioid and mesic tillandsioid species. Relative rates of calcium uptake among 6 species paralleled the zinc data. Foliar absorption of water by partially desiccated leaf blades was slight or nonexistent except in the four xeric tillandsias which exhibited high cation uptake. Species which have the greatest proportion of their leaf surfaces occupied by trichome stalks comprised of densely cytoplasmic cells showed the highest water, calcium and zinc uptake. Although all trichomes studied possess stalks of living cells which lead into the mesophyll, the presence of these stalks is not always associated with high water, calcium and zinc permeability. This study supports theories that an enhanced foliar absorptive capacity exists in xeric tillandsioids and that this capacity may be facilitated by a dense layer of specialized, absorbing trichomes. The implications of foliar permeability to the origin and evolution of the Bromeliaceae and its subfamilies are discussed.
10.2307/2996517|Fagus grandifolia Ehrh. (American Beech) reproduces from seed and/or root sprouts. Although seeding must be the mechanism for initial establishment, root sprouting is considered by many researchers to be the main mode of reproduction in this species in certain areas of its range. Eight forested areas within the east-central portion of the range of Fagus grandifolia were selected for study of the environmental conditions related to the occurrence of root sprouts and/or seed-origin individuals. Multivariate statistical techniques such as principal component analysis, canonical correlation analysis and, stepwise regression analysis were used in this study to examine the relationship between environmental parameters and the reproductive activity in this species. Over the range of Fagus grandifolia, root sprouting is a mechanism by which this species survives in a forest within an area where environmental parameters are harsh. This study indicates a partial shift from seedling establishment toward a dependence on vegetative reproduction in areas where climate is more severe. Within each forest, however, the exposure of the slope on which a parent beech tree is located is an indicator of the possible origin of the beech juvenile individuals around that mature tree. These results do not preclude the occurrence of either root sprouts or of seed-origin individuals within any site in any area of the range of this species.
10.2307/2481976|1. Insect-parasitizing species of the genus Entomophthora have not previously been grown in synthetic media of defined chemical composition. It was found that Entomophthora apiculata Thaxter and E. coronata (Cost) Kevorkian can be grown upon a glucose-asparagine-salts synthetic medium. Both species are autotrophic with respect to vitamins and other accessory growth factors. 2. These fungi cannot assimilate nitrate, but utilize ammonium or amino nitrogen. The optimal glucose concentration for growth of E. coronata is 2.0%; the optimal asparagine concentration is 0.3%. E. apiculata and E. coronata are quite restricted with respect to the utilization of sugars as sources of carbon; of a number of sugars tested, only glucose, levulose, galactose, mannose, and trehalose were utilized. The utilization of these hexose sugars and trehalose is accompanied by acid formation A number of amino acids, including cystine, cysteine. HCl, threonine, isoleucine, and norleucine are unavailable to these two species as sources of carbon. 3. Growth of both E. apiculata and E. coronata occurred with each of 24 amino acids tested as sole sources of nitrogen. Serine, asparagine, glycine, tyrosine, and alanine were the most favorable nitrogen sources for E. apiculata, while aspartic acid, asparagine, glycine, alanine, and serine were best in supporting growth of E. coronata.
10.2307/2996783|Crabtree Woods is an old stand of mixed Appalachian hardwoods which has been identified as one of the finest examples of this vegetation type in Maryland. Because few botanical studies have been conducted on the Allegheny Plateau of Maryland and because the old-growth nature of this stand is unique in its present landscape, we undertook this study to describe the composition, structure, and disturbance history of the stand. A one hectare permanent plot was established in which all trees, saplings, snags, and logs were quantified. Woody seedlings and herbs were subsampled from 25 quadrats to describe the understory. Increment cores were obtained from all Quercus rubra trees within the plot and used for dendroecological analysis. The stand shows many structural and compositional features characteristic of old-growth forest. The overstory was dominated by Acer saccharum, Q. rubra, and Tilia americana. The stand exhibited a reverse-J diameter distribution typical of old forests and a number of trees were observed to have a diameter >100 cm DBH. Acer saccharum and Hamamelis virginiana were the prominent understory constituents. Quercus rubra was essentially absent from seedling and sapling size classes and does not appear to be regenerating. Logs and snags were abundant and occurred in a variety of decay states and diameter classes. Thirty-nine species of herbs were discovered, with Dicentra canadensis, Urtica dioica, and Impatiens pallida being the most abundant. Stem increment analysis shows multiple periods of recruitment likely associated with gap dynamics. However, certain synchronous releases suggest possible light anthropogenic disturbance (e.g., selective cutting or chestnut salvage).
10.2307/2996491|Phosphatidase activity was studied in tissues of susceptible and resistant cultivars of Brassica juncea at 6, 12 and 18 days after inoculation with 8 different isolates of Macrophomina phaseolina markedly differing in their degree of virulence In both the host cultivars phosphatidase activity of the inoculated tissue appeared to be parallel to the pathogenic abilities of the fungal isolates Inoculated tissues of resistant cultivars usually showed very poor activity as compared to their susceptible counterparts There was a general increase in activity on the 12th and 18th day in the case of the susceptible host, whereas in the resistant cultivar a sharp decline was recorded in the enzyme activity on the 12th day Our findings indicated the possible implication of this enzyme in the pathogenesis of Macrophomina stem and root rot of B juncea
10.2307/2483626|An investigation of the variables affecting maize pollen has indicated that: (1) when the thickness of the slide preparation decreases to below the short axis mean for maize (about 80 ), pollen becomes compressed resulting in an increase in size; (2) pore diameter is unaffected by this compression; thus (3) the axis/pore ratio will be altered by slide thickness. Smaller Corylus grains in the same preparations do not become distended until slide thickness decreases below 30 . This indicates that large grains are much more susceptible to such compression effects. Consequently, as measurements are crucial for identification of fossil Maydeae pollen, care must be taken to prepare thick, stable slides.
10.2307/2483823|This is the first report of Characeae from Tonga. It is based upon a collection by Vieillard in 1857 extant in the herbarium of Roger Meslin, Caen, France. The collection includes the single taxon Nitella pseudoflabellata var. mucosa, which is known from Southeastern Asia, Japan, Australia, and New Zealand, and is quite similar to var. mathuatae of Fiji.
10.2307/2995975|The complete age and diameter structures were determined for all tree species in seven Appalachian oak stands arranged along a topographic moisture gradient in southwestern Virginia. All stands but one exhibited a prominent gap in the age distribution in the 20-40 year age classes. No gap was evident in the corresponding diameter distributions. Total and juvenile age distributions were described for selected species. Age structures differed among species, and reflected the different spatial and temporal niches which they occupy. It was hypothesized that the shape of the total age distribution in individual stands is related to the disturbance sequence, and to site through its influence on the species present. Coupling of age and diameter distributions of individual populations provided insights into the functional roles of species along the moisture gradient.
10.2307/2483715|Field observations confirmed earlier reports of delayed pistillate anthesis in natural populations of Silene alba and also provided data on the flowering patterns for both staminate and pistillate plants. Knowing these patterns and considering that the percentage of ovules fertilized is directly related to pollen availability, it was possible to estimate how changes in time of pistillate anthesis would affect seed production. In three of the four populations studied, the observed delay in pistillate anthesis was calculated to have increased seed production. This suggests that the observed delay is of a positive selective advantage.
10.2307/2996837|Patterns of species diversity are a product of many complex interactions that change during succession. The purpose of this study was to measure components of community diversity during succession in six experimental treatments: protected prairie, grazed prairie, once-plowed prairie, annually plowed prairie, abandoned field, and a replowed field. Phase-space analysis of ordination data is introduced as a means of assessing successional dynamics in communities. The phase-space analysis of DCA ordination revealed similar successional trajectories for the protected, once-plowed and annually plowed treatments and divergent patterns in the other plots. The degree and rate of change during succession varied among treatments long after experimental plowing ceased. Patterns of species density, species diversity, mosaic diversity, community heterogeneity, and dominance changed among treatments over time. Heterogeneity decreased on four of five successional plots, but it increased on the grazed treatment. Mosaic diversity showed no clear pattern among the treatments during succession. When data from the successional treatments were combined, the overall patterns were more complex. Heterogeneity fluctuated during succession in response to changes in species density. As species density increased, species diversity increased, whereas heterogeneity and dominance decreased. Because of the temporal fluctuations in heterogeneity and the different components of community diversity, no simple monotonic model will adequately represent patterns of community structure during succession. By analyzing the complex components of structure at different spatial and temporal scales, it will be possible to more clearly understand patterns and mechanisms controlling diversity in plant communities.
10.2307/2995914|In northcentral Kentucky, a high percentage of the seeds of C americana are dispersed in August and September, but some remain on the plants until winter At dispersal seeds are nondormant and can germinate over a wide range of temperatures; germination percentages are higher in light than in darkness Stratification did not induce seeds into dormancy As a result of these dispersal and germination characteristics, seeds germinate in the field in late summer-early autumn and in spring Seeds collected and planted ("dispersed") in September germinated mostly in autumn, whereas those collected and planted in October germinated mostly in spring Fresh seeds and those receiving 12 weeks of stratification or dry storage germinated to higher percentages when incubated on soil than when incubated on sand Campanula americana has an absolute vernalization requirement for flowering Seedlings and juveniles can be vernalized, but seeds cannot Thus, plants from seeds that germinate in summer or autumn behave as winter annuals, and those from seeds that germinate in spring act as biennials The species is a quantitative long day plant
10.2307/2996303|Two populations of the annual grass Triplasis purpurea on Staten Island, New York, were examined to determine the importance of cleistogamy (CL) to caryopsis (seed) production, and whether CL was associated with a position-dependent seed heteromorphism, as noted in other CL grasses. The percentage of tillers with terminal panicles bearing chasmogamous spikelets was low in both populations (35%), and at least 72% of the seeds produced by tillers with terminal panicles were matured on axillary panicles in CL spikelets enclosed by leaf sheaths. A marked seed heteromorphism exists in T. purpurea: from the lower to the upper nodes along a tiller, there was an increase in seed number with a concurrent decrease in mean seed mass. This heteromorphism was further investigated in a greenhouse experiment where plants were subjected to low, medium, and high levels of soil nutrients by periodic addition of N-P-K fertilizer. Again, there was a progressive increase in seed number with a concordant decrease in mean seed mass from the lower to the upper tiller nodes. Differences in seed number among nutrient treatment groups were greatest in the upper nodes, but differed very little in the lower nodes. This is the first report of seed heteromorphism in this species. It is suggested that the position-dependent variation in seed mass reflects differences in the timing and length of the maturation period. From an evolutionary perspective, this pattern of seed heteromorphism may represent an adaptation to an unpredictable, highly-disturbed environment.
10.2307/2484339|In the Pine Plains of southern New Jersey, dominant P. rigida sprouts reached heights of 5 to 6 m at 50 years of age; in plots cleared of existing trees, P. rigida seedlings reached about the same height in 22 years, and planted P. strobus seedlings 5 to 9 m in 17 years. Results substantiate other studies that repeated wildfires, not soils, are the primary cause of the low stature of P. rigida in Plains areas, and that genetic composition of the P. rigida is a contributing factor. To maintain typical Plains sprouts less than 2 m tall, as well as many of the associated non-arborescent species, fires that kill back woody stems are needed at about 10-year intervals.
10.2307/2483384|As a result of a year spent exploring the flora of Puerto Rico, forty-five new records and three new spceies (Buxus portoricensis, Calyptranthes dumetorum, Phialanthus grandifolius) are cited from that island. In addition, new records are presented for Cuba and Hispaniola, and a new species (Forchhammeria emarginata) is described from Cuba. Several new combinations are made in the genera Fimbristylis, Forchhammeria, Cassine, Crossopetalum, Ziziphus, Henriettea, Gochnatia, Grammitis, Eriosorus and Thelypteris. All the records, new combinations and new species are from the Greater Antilles.
10.2307/2996138|New specimens of Akania americana Romero & Hickey and a new species in the same genus, Akania patagonica n. sp. are described. Comparisons are made with the only living species, A. hilli, endemic to east Australia. All the fossils are found in the La Huitrera Formation (Paleocene), Chubut Province, Argentina. The fossils support the idea that the Akaniaceae were diversified and widespread in the southern hemisphere during the Paleogene, and that close relationships existed between South America and Australia at that time.
10.2307/2484504|Most fungi of medical importance are included in Fungi Imperfecti. By using electrophoretic protein patterns we may overcome taxonomic difficulties and improve the classification systems of these pathogens. Disc electrophoresis of soluble proteins was applied to taxonomic studies of dermatophytes and species of Candida. The data included: demonstration of reproducibility of the electrophoretic patterns; evaluation of the effect of various types of culture media on the electrophoretic patterns; comparison of different protein extraction methods; comparison of taxonomic usefulness of patterns of mycelial and culture filtrate proteins; assessment of electrophoretic variability during growth; electrophoretic comparison of dimorphic forms; study of electrophoretic variability at the intra- and interspecific levels; analysis of electrophoretic patterns by methods of numerical taxonomy. The data indicate that comparative electrophoresis is a valuable method for taxonomic studies of medically important fungi.
10.2307/2482191|1. A new species of Dysmorphococcus, D. globosus, is described, based on material collected in rock pools of the old bed of the Caney Fork River, Rock Island, Warren County, Tennessee. 2. The organism has been maintained in uni-algal condition in soil-water cultures and has been studied in the living condition and in fixed and stained preparations. 3. Asexual reproduction is accomplished by division of the parent protoplast within the lorica into four daughter cells, which are liberated in the motile condition; during this process the flagella of the original cell persist, their distal extremities being attached to the substratum. Liberation of the daughter cells is through a posterior rupture of the parent lorica, accompanied by an eversion of a hyaline vesicle. 4. In cultures in which the nutrient supply is being exhausted, each individual may divide internally to form, typically, eight aplanospores. These may germinate directly, each forming one new vegetative cell, or, after desiccation, each aplanospore may germinate into four minute swarmers which give indications of gamete nature, although zygote formation has not been obtained. 5. Herbarium specimens of this organism have been deposited in the herbarium at Vanderbilt University and at the Chicago Museum of Natural History. Cultures of the organism are maintained at Vanderbilt University and at Indiana University.
10.2307/2996336|Cyperus nayaritensis, endemic to Nayarit, Mexico, and C. microbrunneus, of Guatemala, Honduras and Costa Rica, are described, illustrated and compared to their nearest relatives.
10.2307/2482479|1. The tobacco wilt fungus, Fusarium oxysporum var. nicotianae, is able to utilize a wide variety of carbon sources. Xylose, ribose, mannose, glucose, levulose, galactose, maltose, sucrose, trehalose, cellobiose, raffinose, melezitose and dextrin are satisfactory carbon sources for growth. Levulose, xylose and maltose result in the formation of more mycelium per gram of sugar utilized than certain other sugars. D-arabinose, lactose and melibiose are poorly utilized. 2. F. oxysporum var. nicotianae can utilize nitrate, ammonium or amino nitrogen. Growth on certain amino acids, notably aspartic acid, glutamic acid or -alanine, is far superior to that obtained on inorganic nitrogen sources. Growth of the fungus was studied using 34 nucleic acid derivativesas nitrogen sources. Ribonucleic acid, uric acid and 2,6-diaminopurine were the most effective, although none were comparable to the best of the amino acids. Purines, purine nucleosides and nucleotides, pyrimidine nucleotides, allantoin or urea were better nitrogen sources for this organism than methylated purines, pyrimidines, or pyrimidine nucleotides. 3. In shake cultures, F. oxysporum var. nicotianae grows in a yeast-like fashion. 4. Ethyl alcohol is a major metabolic product of glucose fermentation. 5. In culture filtrates a red water-soluble pigment is produced which has the properties of an indicator. This pigment has been identified as rubrofusarin. 6. Attempts to isolate fusarinic acid (5-n-butyl picolinic acid) from culture filtrates were unsuccessful.
10.2307/2482465|1. The cell wall structure of tracheids and fibres of some ancient buried wood samples collected from several sources were studied. These include anaerobically or non-biologically degraded ancient buried wood of different ages, namely Pinus sylvestris (sample Nos. O.K.9. & 64 from Rotterdam), and Shorea robusta (from Muryan site, Pataliputra, India). 2. The extent of deterioration exhibited by all these ancient woods is not related to the age alone. The nature of preservation obviously depends chiefly upon the intrinsic properties of the wood, environmental conditions, etc. 3. In the softwood samples the microscopic degradation of the cell wall lamellae follows a graded sequence as outlined by Barghoorn (1949a). Surprisingly the hardwood sample, which is oldest in age, was found to be almost free from any degradation. 4. It was found from solubility tests and microchemical studies that in the ancient buried wood a large amount of original lignin was always present. The distribution of lignin was found to be similar in both ancient wood and its control. A pectin-like substance has also been noted. 5. The X-ray and other optical evidences indicated that in all these ancient materials the cellulose is variously oriented. This together with other evidences clearly indicate the presence of substantial amounts of resistant cellulose in these materials. 6. A gradual increase in the ash content, and the presence of scattered spots in one of the X-ray diffraction photographs, are due to the accumulation of inorganic matters. This possibly initiates "biological fixation" of structures in the course of fossilization. 7. Thus the entrancing beauty in the ancient plant life going down to the low limits of visibility is revealed. The role of such materials in fossilization has appeared to be no less interesting.
10.2307/2996037|The survivorship, phenology, production, and distribution of the annual species Ambrosia trifida L. in a Delaware River freshwater tidal wetland were studied during 1982. Germination began in mid April with maximum seedling density (x = 104.5, S.D. =  58.1 m
10.2307/2484307|Data on seed set and flowering phenology were obtained for Claytonia virginica L. in Brownfield and Hart Woods in central Illinois. At both sites flowering time varied markedly between years with temperature as the proximate cue. Mean seed set per ovary at Brownfield and Hart was greatest in 1974, lowest in 1975 and intermediate in 1976. As determined from censuses of flowers on marked inflorescences at Brownfield in 1975 and 1976, seed set was highest in flowers first-pistillate between the 25 and 50% cumulative flowering points. In both years, flowers opening early and late in the phenological sequence had reduced seed production and seed set declined rapidly during the latter periods of heavy flowering. Maximum seed set coincided with the first of the two peaks in the bimodal 1975 flowering sequence but preceded peak flowering in 1976. Abortion rates were highest in flowers first-pistillate during the final periods of Claytonia flowering when reduction of light due to canopy development was most severe. The evolution of Claytonia flowering time has been influenced by 1) cold temperatures early in the season which minimize pollination probabilities and 2) development of the canopy late in the season which reduces photosynthetic capabilities.
10.2307/2482216|A number of natural materials have been found to replace cornsteep liquor in the penicillin production medium. These include cottonseed meal, linseed oil meal, coconut oil meal, sardine meal, peanut oil meal, mustard flour, soybean oil meal, and perhaps castor bean meal. The composition of the inoculum medium has a pronounced effect on the fermentation. The gross chemical changes occurring during the fermentation of media prepared with cornsteep liquor, linseed oil meal, and cottonseed oil meal are quite similar.
10.2307/2996412|Disturbed sites on the flood plain terrace of the San Antonio River were recolonized by woody vegetation within five years after disturbance. The number of woody species, total density and total basal area increased with stand age In addition, stand composition changed drastically with the disappearance of the colonizers and the appearance of the mature community dominants Retama (Parkinsonia aculeata L), mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa Torr), desert hackberry (Celtis pallida Torr), huisache (Acacia smallii Isley) and Texas sugarberry (Celtis laevigata Willd) were early community entrants Baccharis (Baccharis neglecta Britt.), an important ephemeral woody shrub, was present in 15-19 year old stands but absent in older stands Acacia smallii had the greatest total mean basal area in stands 15-30 years old In older stands, C laevigata had the greatest total mean basal area Cedar elm (Ulmus crassifolia Nutt.), box elder (Acer negundo L), pecan (Carya illinoinensis (Wang) K Koch), American elm (U americana L), and gum bumelia (Bumelia lanuginosa (Michx) Pers) were important secondary species in mature stands Celtis laevigata colonized the stands at the same time as A smallii, but grew slowly until the stands were approximately 25 years old Possible causes of the slow growth rate are lack of essential resources, competition, or inhibition by allelopathic chemicals
10.2307/2484431|A new genus of Gramineae, Griffithsochloa, is described. It is a monotypic segregate of Cathestecum and is confined to dry scrub forest regions of south-central Mexico.
10.2307/2484235|Twenty-six species of Hebeloma from Europe were tested for their ability to form mycorrhizae with Pinus virginiana. Five species did not infect short roots, 5 penetrated only the first layer of cortical cells, and the rest had well developed Hartig nets. These and other similar data could be used more extensively as supportive taxonomic characteristics.
10.2307/2484011|Volatile materials emanating from leaves of S. leucophylla reduce oxygen uptake by mitochondria of herb seedlings. This inhibition appears to be localized in that part of the Krebs cycle where succinate is converted to fumarate, or fumarate to malate. It also appears that the permeability of cell membranes is decreased on exposure to terpenes.
10.2307/2483690|Original chromosome counts for 216 populations are listed to augment earlier studies. The diploid number of 2n = 18 is the first report for C. parryi (Gray) Greene ssp. latior H. & C.; counts of 2n = 27 and 45 (in C. viscidiflorus (Hook.) Nutt. ssp. visicidiflorus) represent new numbers for the genus. Polyploidy is conclusively documented as limited in the genus; it has been found only in some subspecies of C. viscidiflorus. Karyotypic information supports earlier determinations that C. viscidiflorus var. ludens Shinners is conspecific with C. spathulatus L. C. Anders.
10.2307/2996510|Controlled levels of human trampling fragmented and, after one year, rejuvenated six species of mosses. Polytrichum commune, Ditrichum pallidum, Thuidium delicatulum, Hypnum imponens and Sphagnum palustre/henryense showed c. 80% or more recovery from 4200 walks. Sphagnum recurvum showed 98 and 25% recovery from 130 and 1600 walks, respectively. After two years, Polytrichum and S. recurvum showed further recovery while Ditrichum abruptly declined. Recovery rates varied widely within species and were affected by initial colony size, microtopography, litter levels, and competition from other bryophyte species and vascular plants.
10.2307/2483525|A new species of Pinus and a new occurrence of Ginkgo are recorded for the Oligocene Ruby basin flora. For the nearby Oligocene Grant Horse Prairie flora a brachyblast of Ginkgo is reported.-The pine fascicle with six slender leaves, arising unquestionably from the bundle sheath, is the first recorded cluster with that number. It is designated as Pinus hexaphylla n. sp. A thorough correlation with existing fossil and living species of Pinus align it with the White Pine group. A small leaf of Ginkgo adiantoides (Unger) Heer increases the Ruby gymnosperms by another significant genus. Both species agree with earlier conclusions reached for the Ruby flora as relatively dry-temperature and somewhat younger than the related Florissant flora of Colorado. A short shoot (brachyblast) of Ginkgo from the Grant Horse Prairie flora is identical with equivalent structures of Ginkgo triloba L. and is thus assigned as "ramus brevis" to Ginkgo adiantoides (Unger) Heer. The compression consists of 30 leaf scars with a set of diagnostic bundle scars. The presence of Ginkgo in this locality strengthens a relationship to the Ruby flora through overlapping species.
10.2307/2482709|Specimens of Elymus sibiricus L. from Alaska and the District of Mackenzie can be readily distinguished from E. canadensis. E. hirsutus and E. glaucus, particularly by the short glumes with short awns.
10.2307/2484503|Electrophoresis has been a tool in fungal taxonomy for more than a decade. Representatives of nearly every major fungal group have been studied, primarily with either starch-gel or polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis. Most of these works have dealt with the taxonomy of fungi parasitic on higher plants, and this paper discusses groups of pathogens that have been examined, the conclusions and opinions of various authors regarding the organisms they have studied, and problems encountered while using electrophoresis. Only organisms that directly cause disease are considered. Genera such as Aspergillus, which may destroy stored grain but do not directly incite plant disease, are not included. Pathogens discussed include such genera as Phytophthora, Fusarium, Verticillium, and Puccinia, frequent subjects of taxonomic studies, and such others as Pythium, Ceratocystis, Taphrina, Cytospora, Septoria, and Drechslera that are less frequently studied.
10.2307/2482890|1. A long-standing discrepancy in the literature pertaining to the location of the radiating bands in the stomatal apparatus of the genus Equisetum was discussed, with the citation of six authors who stated that they were part of the subsidiary cell wall, and another six authors who stated that they were part of the guard cell wall. 2. Macerations were made of desilicified and cleared material of twelve species of Equisetum, which revealed that these bands are always located on the subsidiary cell wall, thus confirming Sanio's original report.
10.2307/2483148|1. An attempt has been made to arouse and/or cultivate an appreciation of some noteworthy diversities existing among shoot apical meristems of vascular plants. Variability exists among apices of plants differing (1) in generic classification, (2) in specific classification, (3) in age, when plants belong to the same species, as well as (4) among apices of the same individual and (5) of the same apex at different times. Five general types of differences are found among shoot apices. Dimensional variations and differences in internal zonation are the most easily detected. Relatively little is known concerning the frequency of occurrence (1) of apices (of an individual or of members of a species) differing in chromosome complement of their cells or (2) of apices composed of cells of two or more dissimilar chromosome complements. A great deal remains to be learned concerning the relationship of specific environmental factors to variability among comparable shoot apices. 2. A knowledge of variability among apical meristems may be employed as a tool to discover the ultimate origin of tissues composing flower parts, leaves, and other stem appendages; the mechanism of origin and perpetuation of chimeras; and to explain some cases of sexual incompatibility, sterility, and unexpected results of plant breeding experiments. 3. Some evidence has been cited which would lead one to suspect that some variations in the shoot apex are directly or indirectly associated with change in the form of the plant. Perhaps the most noncontroversial example of this relationship is the well known external and internal changes in form, anatomy, and physiology of the plant which accompany the enlargement and reorganization (physiological and zonational) of the vegetative apical meristem which occur at the time of floral initiation and subsequently. In addition, we may tentatively infer that apical meristems of large volume are associated with the formation of larger flower parts, fruits, and vegetative structures whereas smaller stems and lateral appendages form from smaller apices, provided that both the large and the small apices being considered are parts of the same plant or of plants belonging to the same species and variety. Some of the supporting evidence for this inference is found when one compares differences in plant form associated with the large apices of tetraploid plants vs. the small apices of the diploid plants of Vinca rosea, the large apices of permanent shoots vs. the small apices of deciduous shoots of Taxodium distichum, the large long-shoot apices vs. the smaller dwarf-shoot apices of Pinus sp., and the larger apices of terminal buds vs. smaller apices of terminal buds of Lycopersicon sp.
10.2307/2482468|1. The initial cell of Synchytrium perforatum, S. valerianellae, S. holwayi, S. chamaedryoides, S. cellulare, S. boerhaaviae, S. oxalydis and S. stachydis functions as a prosorus which gives rise to sorus of sporangia. 2. The occurrence of a prosorus in the so-called summer cycle of these species indicates that they belong in either Microsynchytrium or Mesochytrium, depending on the manner of resting spore germination. 3. Synchytrium perforatum, which was named by Ellis, is described and diagnosed for the first time.
10.2307/2483028|1. The effect of temperature on pollen size and exine characters of tomato and cocklebur was studied under controlled climatic conditions. 2. Day and night temperatures had little effect on exine characters, but diameter of pollen decreased at high and low night temperatures and at high day temperatures.
10.2307/2996730|An extensive study of the forest vegetation at Whiteface Mountain, New York was conducted to determine the effects of red spruce decline on forest composition and structure along an elevation gradient. The percent live density and the percent live basal area of all tree species were lower at elevations  1000 m compared to elevations < 1000 m, but the change was most severe for red spruce (Picea rubens Sarg.). At elevations  1000 m, only 47% of the standing spruce stems were alive compared to 75% live stems of associated species. The density of dead spruce was greatest in the intermediate size classes. The diameter distributions of live spruce shifted from a negative exponential form at the lower elevation bands to a nearly uniform distribution in the highest elevation band. An earlier report of substantial decreases in red spruce basal area on Whiteface Mountain was confirmed. The initial understory response to overstory spruce mortality in an old-growth stand appeared to be an increase in the abundance of balsam fir (Abies balsamea (L.) Mill.). The death of canopy spruce is an important disturbance agent in this mountain forest and could have an important influence on tree regeneration.
10.2307/2483705|The structure of forest stands of central Long Island, N.Y., was analyzed to determine relationships between the three principal strata: the tree stratum, a scrub oak stratum, and a heath-shrub layer termed a heath-shrub synusia. The analyses showed that the coverages of scrub oak were highest in pitch pine-dominated stands and declined in oak-dominated stands. The importance and vigor of the heath-shrub synusia, measured as biomass, declined with increasing scrub oak cover as well as with increasing oak basal area. Species importance within this synusia also varied with changing canopy conditions. The factors controlling these relationships could not be fully assessed in this study, but it is suggested that two somewhat independent agencies are involved as communities develop through succession: 1) growth and competition between heath-shrub synusia species following recovery from disturbance, and 2) changes in the influences of the tree canopy and scrub oak strata on the shrub synusia as they change in composition and density.
10.2307/2483702|A survey of the chromosome morphology of eighteen populations (five species) of Tradescantia native to the Mobile, Alabama area was made. The total length of the chromosome complement, the length of the individual chromosome types (6), the length of the chromosome arms and the armlength ratios, as well as the chromosome number are given for each collection. This study was made in an attempt to locate a population of Tradescantia with a chromosome complement that would permit the immediate identification of individual chromosome types, thus facilitating some studies involving the precise location of radiation-induced aberrations. None of the populations studied shows such a chromosome complement; however, some significant differences in the chromosome morphology were evident in two populations of T. subaspera Ker. and in all populations of T. virginiana L. included in the study.
10.2307/2996814|I examined the relationships between patterns of flowering and fruiting and a spatially-heterogeneous light regime within two populations each of Smilacina racemosa and S. stellata over three consecutive years at sites in Washington and Idaho. Number of flowers increased with ramet size in all populations, but was strongly correlated with light in only one population. Both number of fruits and percentage fruitset were primarily influenced by flower number and ramet size in S. racemosa. Fruiting in S. stellata, however, was generally attributable to undetermined residual factors. Within a uniformly lit patch of S. stellata, probability of insect visitation, but not number of flowers visited per bout, increased with inflorescence size. Overall, the results demonstrate that both reproductive behavior and frequency of interaction with pollinators vary greatly within patches of these extensively clonal species. Variation in plant size, and consequently reproduction, is sometimes associated directly with small scale differences in light, but light seems not the dominant factor determining reproductive output. Direct correlations between light and reproduction may have been less than expected due to the clonal nature of these plants.
10.2307/2484239|Exogenous applications of octopine, a metabolite, synthesized in higher plants exclusively by crown-gall tumors, increases the growth of crown-gall tumors on tomato stems and the number of areas of xylary differentiation in the neoplasms.
10.2307/2484731|An extension of a previously published algal cell technique (Rachlin and Farran 1974) was used in this study to monitor the effects of copper, zinc, cobalt and manganese on the growth of the diatom Nitzschia closterium which had been isolated from the western end of Long Island Sound. The concentration of each metal which depressed the growth rate of this species by 50% (EC
10.2307/2483092|1. A new fungus, named Muellerella nigra, and isolated from a soil sample, is described. 2. The ascostroma develops initially from a single, swollen cell of a hypha. 3. Pseudoparaphyses delimit the ascigerous area. Asci are produced on the base and sides of this layer and point toward the center of the centrum. 4. Bitunicate asci with thirty-two ascospores in each are produced. The ascostroma is ruptured irregularly at the apex to release the contents. Acknowledgements. The author is indebted to several individuals for assistance. He is grateful for the technical help of Irene Rollman and Susan Carey Canham, for the preparation of the slides by Sam P. Meyers and for the photography by Joseph Sardinas. Sincere thanks also are expressed to Dr. Donald P. Rogers for preparation of the Latin description.
10.2307/2996855|Effects of seed mass, seedling density and sand burial on the establishment and growth of Panicum virgatum seedlings were investigated. Seed mass varied from 0.3 to 3.5 mg and showed significant positive correlation with the rate of germination. In the early stages of growth, seedlings from large seeds were significantly larger than those from small seeds. However, this size advantage disappeared when seedlings were  8 weeks in age. An increase in seedling density resulted in a reduction in growth and an increase in seedling mortality. In the field, seedlings of P. virgatum emerged from depths ranging from 0 to 11 cm. Seedlings that emerged from seeds buried at shallow depths withstood greater post-emergence sand burial than those emerging from seeds buried at greater depths.
10.2307/2996642|Solidago shortii T. & G. is a hemicryptophyte perennial that reproduces by sexual and vegetative means. Flower bud formation begins in June, and anthesis occurs from early August to mid-October. Seeds ripen in October and November, are dispersed until March, and germinate from late February to April. A persistent seed bank is not formed. Twenty-two percent of 1344 first-year juveniles marked in the field in May 1989 were alive in mid-September 1990. Although plants can flower in their first year in cultivation, it takes more than 2 years for them to reach reproductive maturity in the field. Buds formed belowground at the base of current-year shoots in summer produce rhizomes and aerial stems, which emerge in autumn or in early spring. Elongation of aerial stems begins in early spring and continues until June or July (nonflowering stems) or late August (flowering stems). The life cycle characteristics of S. shortii are similar to those of some weedy and/or geographically widespread members of the genus.
10.2307/2482430|1. The root system of Glycine max consists of a primary root with numerous lateral roots, which are arranged in four longitudinal rows.2. Primary roots of soybeans which are cultured in an aerated solution are several times as long as those cultured in a non-aerated solution, and the secondary roots are more numerous.3. Root hairs of aerated primary roots are sparsely developed except along the basal portion of the root.4. Roots cultured in the non-aerated solution produce an abundance of root hairs at a level of 0.8 cm. behind the root tip. 5. The levels of differentiation of pericycle, primary xylem, and primary phloem, as well as maturation of sieve tube elements, are similar and always below the level of Casparian thickenings (1) for both aerated and non-aerated roots and (2) for roots of different aged seedlings.6. This similarity also exists for the level of initiation of secondary roots. In aerated roots, the level of vascular cambium and of root hair initiation are above the level of initiation of Casparian thickenings. In nonaerated roots, only vascular cambium initiates above the level of Casparian thickenings.7. In seedling roots less than 12 days old, the levels of root hair initiation and xylem lignification are below the level of Casparian thickenings and in the seedling roots more than 12 days old, they are above the level8. Vacuolation and enlargement of xylem ceils begin in the metaxylem and proceed centrifugally.9. The development of secondary wall and lignification, on the other hand, begin in the protoxylem and proceed centripetally.10. Vascular cambium appears first at the innermost edge of the primary phloem strands and develops laterally and acropetally.11. It was first observed during the fourth day in primary roots cud tured in the aerated solution and on the sixth day in those cultured in the non-aerated solution. 12. Secondary roots arise in the pericycle at loci directly outside the ridges of the tetrarch xylem. I wish to thank Dr. R. A. Popham for his kind advice during the investigation. I wish to express my appreciation to Dr. B. S. Meyer for use of laboratory facilities
10.2307/2482155|1. The life-form spectra of the plants in the two areas studied are in agreement with Raunkier's hypothesis. 2. There is a shift from the less protected life forms in New Jersey to the more protected life-forms in Minnesota. 3. The cover method is a more satisfactory basis for life-form comparisons than the species list method, as cover is more indicative of the contribution of plants to vegetation.
10.2307/2484817|Gametogenesis and embryogenesis of C. arietinum L. and C. soongaricum J. & S. show close similarity. Pollen grains of C. soongaricum may show in situ germination. There is a resting period of 4-7 days between fertilization and the zygotic division in C. soongaricum, while in C. arietinum the resting period is only 1-2 days. The biseriate suspensor is very extensive in both species. Embryo development does not conform in details to any of the five types established for dicotyledonous embryos: it can be termed the Cicer variation of the Solanad type.
10.2307/2482218|1. A specific diagnosis of an undeseribed species of Chlamydomonas, C. chlamydogama, is presented. 2. The organism was originally isolated from a soil sample from Venezuela, and clonal cultures may be readily maintained in Bristol's, Knop's, and probably other media.3. The morphology of the organism is described and illustrated. 4. C. chlamydogama is strictly heterothallic; sexulality is readily manifested when organisms from clonal cultures of different sex are brought together in hanging-drop preparations.
10.2307/2484938|Extension growth characteristics of ten deciduous tree species in the Northeast are examined in relation to their successional status. At one extreme, early successional species (e.g., Populus grandidentata, P. tremuloides, Prunus pensylvanica) grow over most of the frost-free season, have indeterminate extension growth, and make large amounts of extension growth. At the other extreme, late successional species (e.g., Acer saccharum, Fagus grandifolia) make small amounts of extension growth during a short period of the frost-free season through a determinate scheme of growth. Some species (e.g., Acer rubrum, Betula lutea, B. papyrifera, Fraxinus americana, Quercus rubra) are intermediate in successional status and extension growth characteristics. For these ten species, their different patterns of extension growth seem appropriate to their different roles in succession.
10.2307/2996323|At the time of dispersal in May, embryos of two species of Corydalis consist of a few cells only. After a brief growth period, the embryos remain quite small during summer. When temperatures decrease in autumn, growth again commences, and it continues until late December. No further growth occurs prior to germination in spring. Seeds sown in a pot and put in a refrigerator in early July ceased growing altogether. Thus, it seems that both a warm maturation period and a cold period are necessary for proper embryo growth in tuberous Corydalis, i.e., nondeep complex morphophysiological dormancy (Baskin and Baskin 1991).
10.2307/2483472|Volatile materials, primarily terpenes, emanating from leaves of Salvia leucophylla greatly inhibit root growth, hypocotyl growth, and the production of lateral roots in germinating herb seeds. Cineole, one of the Salvia terpenes, severely retards respiration of excised herb roots and intact seedlings. It is suggested that these inhibitory effects result in poorly established seedlings which succumb readily to environmental stress, thus producing the patternings observed in the field around Salvia thickets.
10.2307/2483179|A critical comparison of the type specimens of Hierochloe Nashii and H. odorata forma Eamesii reveals that there are no important morphological differences between them. Although these two taxa have been considered to be extremely local in occurrence, the former from New York and New Jersey, and the latter only from Fairfield, Connecticut, plants corresponding to the types have been found in widely separated localities along the Connecticut coast. Plants of the "Nashii-Eamesii" type were never encountered as isolated subpopulations, but rather as scattered individuals within the stands. Hierochloe odorata from elsewhere is usually very uniform and apparently highly infertile, reproducing either apomictically or by rhizomes or both. The extremely variable populations of coastal Connecticut, in contrast, are quite fertile and have normal embryo sac development. Cytological studies of plants from coastal Connecticut revealed that they have the same chromosome number (2n = 28) as the uniform and apparently infertile Hierochloe odorata from Europe and northern North America. In contrast, the equally uniform and infertile apomicts from Ohio and Michigan have a chromosome number of 2n = 56. Hierochloe Nashii and H. odorata forma Eamesii are shown to be merely extreme variants of H. odorata in the highly variable coastal populations of northeastern North America.
10.2307/2996069|Many ecology textbooks state that the photosynthetic response of plants to varying light is represented by the response of single leaves, which is a downward concave curve that often reaches saturation. Single leaves of the shade-adapted, annual grass, Microstegium vimineum (Trinius) A. Camus, saturate at 25% full sunlight. However, two field experiments showed that stand dry weight yield at the end of the growing season was a linear function of integrated light, rather than a downward concave saturation-type curve. The linear relation for M. vimineum stands concurs with results of several agricultural studies and may have implications for forest growth models that assume saturation-type response curves for whole trees or forest canopies.
10.2307/2484668|Percent predation of Cassia marilandica seeds by the bruchid beetle Sennius abbreviatus was determined in 1969 and 1971 for a population in Rutherford Co., Tennessee and in 1974 for a population in Wilson Co., Tennessee. In 1969 and 1971 over 97% of the fruits contained predated seeds, and over 50% of the seed crops were destroyed. Percent seed predation per plant determined for 50 plants in 1971 ranged from 22.0 to 91.1. In 1974, 72.5% of the fruits collected in the Wilson Co. population contained predated seeds, but only 15.3% of the seeds had been destroyed.
10.2307/2484658|Clematis coahuilensis is described as new from mountainous regions of Coahuila, Durango, and Nuevo Leon, Mexico. The new species is a member of sect. Clematis and is contrasted with C. dioica L. and C. drummondii T. & G.
10.2307/2483334|A new member of the Sphaeropsidales collected by the writer on Eugenia jambolana has been assigned to a new genus, Kamatella.
10.2307/2481843|1. The shattering character in lettuce is described and shown to be the expression of a single dominant gene. In general, it is found only in wild lettuce, Lactuca serriola. The recessive allele (non-shattering) is for the most part restricted to cultivated varieties. Shattering is not linked with either achene color or leaf lobing. 2. Indirect evidence suggests that shattering is of considerable importance to the species under non-cultivated conditions. On the contrary, under cultivated conditions, non-shattering is the favored type, and shattering becomes detrimental. It is pointed out that loss of natural adaptations for the dissemination of seeds has occurred in many cultivated plants.
10.2307/2483609|The paper deals with embryo and seed development in Cissampelos pariera, Tinospora cordifolia, Cocculus hirsutus and Stephania hernandifolia. Of the two ovules in a carpel, only one reaches maturity. The ovule is unitegmic and hemianatropous. Embryo sac development follows the Polygonum type. The antipodals persist until the time of fertilization. The endosperm is nuclear. Wall formation starts from the micropylar end at about the globular stage of the embryo. First the nucellus and later the endosperm become ruminate due to infoldings of the integument. In Cocculus, Cissampelos and Stephania the ruminations are not very pronounced but the seed coat becomes wavy, and also the fruit wall. Embryo development conforms to the Trifolium Variation of the Onagrad Type. In Tinospora the zygote divides only after the fruit is full grown and the embryo is displaced to a lateral position.
10.2307/2483335|Primary production was studied in four freshwater marsh communities in New Jersey's Troy Meadows. These communities included: an open aquatic system of emergent and floating plants, a cattail community, a swale of sedge tussocks and associated herbaceous tussock colonists, and a sedge-shrub thicket. Although the four communities differed considerably in vegetational structure, they did not differ significantly in production rates or production efficiencies (production per unit of leaf surface). The seasonal course of production varied among species and among communities. In general, early summer was the most productive period. It followed a springtime development of photosynthetic capital, which was most rapid in the predominantly rhizomatous cattail community where there was a marked recall of stored foods. Production there-after decreased except for a slight fall upswing. The estimated average (9.50 gm./m
10.2307/2482819|1. Anthers of all the four species of Polygala investigated here, are normally bilocular and contain only two microsporangia. Though the anthers differ in size and form, they are all alike in structure and dehiscence which occurs by a single large subapical pore on the ventral side. 2. The delicate anther wall differentiates into the epidermis, hypodermis, an ephemeral middle layer and the tapetum. 3. The hypodermis acquires secondary fibrous thickenings which are characteristically disposed on the cell walls. 4. Besides the hypodermis, cells of part of the connective also develop similar fibrous thickenings. 5. Prior to dehiscence, the pollen sacs become laterally confluent along their entire length by the breakdown of the intervening unthickened part of the connective. 6. The restricted poricidal dehiscence is primarily due to the abbreviated stomium and the fibrous mechanism does not show any localization in the dehiscent region. 7. From a study of abnormal anthers it is concluded that originally, anthers of this genus, were probably quadrilocular and with four microsporangia as in typical angiospermic anthers. The prevailing bilocular condition is the result of suppression of the two sporangia situated on the ventral side of the anther. 8. Autogamy is of regular occurrence and it is shown that the release of pollen through the apical pores of the anthers, is of special advantage for this process.
10.2307/2482547|Sixty years ago Went studied the fungus Monilia sitophila in west Java, where it occurs, in the conidial stage, as a constituent of ontjom, a condiment prepared from peanut press cake. Examination of cultures derived from ontjom obtained in Indonesia have now shown the existence of a perithecial stage with asci and ascospores of the type characteristic of Neurospora. Condia of the Indonesian isolate measure 11.3  1.6 x 9.9  1.1 . The ascospores measure 23.4  1.5 x 15.4  1.2 . These measurements, together with morphology of the perithecia and the findings from crosses with known strains, indicate that the Indonesian isolate is Neurospora sitophila. A number of physiological observations were made on cultures of the Indonesian strains. The conidia are killed by 10 minutes exposure to 80
10.2307/2483984|Although pollens of many species germinate in simple aqueous media, stigmas do not provide satisfactory sites for germination of most foreign pollens. In crosses among 24 unrelated species, only 4.3% resulted in pollen germination. In intrageneric crosses of Solanum and Ipomoea, the percentage of combinations in which germination occurred was 42% and 25%, respectively. Although pollens germinated most frequently in crosses of closely related species, sometimes germination occurred in very distant and unpredictable crossing combinations. Thus, stigmas not only provide the proper conditions for germination of pollen from their particular species but also actively inhibit the germination of pollen of many unrelated species.
10.2307/2484027|Entrapment of pollen in three kinds of coniferous resin during 24 intervals in a year's period was investigated to clarify some of the factors controlling the occurrence of pollen in amber (fossil resin). Viscosity and rapidity of hardening of the resins, which varied with different taxa, were found to be important in determining both the surface area and the length of time that resin is receptive to pollen, and hence may be significant in influencing the presence or quantity of pollen in amber. The resin was collected from conifers in a pine-mixed hardwood stand, whose varied composition provided an opportunity to investigate some of the problems attending a reconstruction of ancient forests based upon relative composition of the pollen in amber. Pollen of some genera was caught only during their time of pollination, whereas that of others was trapped throughout the year. The kinds and relative amounts of pollen found in the resin were not strongly influenced by the vegetation immediately surrounding each of the study trees, but generally reflected the vegetation of the entire study area. In indicating the composition of the forest, some kinds of pollen, such as oak and birch, were over-represented and others, such as pine, maple, and hickory, were under-represented. Although the proportions of the kinds of pollen in the resin do not give an accurate quantitative representation of forest composition, they do indicate qualitatively the most common arborescent components. Pollen in amber should provide generally more useful information than any other kind of inclusion in reconstructing past forest conditions, especially if studies can be related to correlative modern situations.
10.2307/2483131|The photoreaction that regulates flowering of photoperiodically responsive plants is photoreversible. The wavelength maxima for the opposing reactions are 660 and 730 m. The reaction may be written P(660)
10.2307/2481898|1. Geocarpon minimum is known to occur in only one locality, an area north of Alba in Jasper County, Missouri, where it is restricted to sandstone outcrops of Mississippian age of the Barton Upland. The genus is known nowhere else in the world. 2. Although Mackenzie had assigned the genus doubtfully to the Aizoaceae, examination of recently collected material furnishes new evidence, overlooked by Mackenzie, to show that the genus should be placed unquestionably in the Caryophyllaceae. 3. The lack of stipules, gamophyllous calyx, 5 perigynous stamens, 5 staminodial rudiments (a character not found by Mackenzie), 1-celled ovary, numerous amphitropous ovules on a free central placenta (misinterpreted by Mackenzie), 3 stigmas alternating with 3 tips of the valves of the ovary or capsule, furnish a combination of morphological characters shared by various genera of the Caryophyllaceae. 4. While possessing some characteristics of each of the subfamilies Paronychioideae and Alsinoideae, it probably belongs near the tribe Sclerantheae in the subfamily Alsinoideae because of the gamophyllous calyx, lack of petals, and perigynous stamens. 5. It is considered the type of a new tribe Geocarpeae Palmer & Steyermark, distinguished by the apetalous flower, gamophyllous calyx, 5 stamens, 5 staminodia, numerous ovules, and 3 stigmas alternating with an equal number of teeth of the capsule. This tribe is placed in the subfamily Alsinoideae between the tribe Alsineae, subtribe Sabulininae, and the tribe Sclerantheae, according to the arrangement of tribes in Pax & Hoffmann's treatment in the latest edition of Engler-Prantl's Die Naturlichen Pflanzen-familien.
10.2307/2482184|A reexamination of older collections and the recent discovery of many new stations indicate that Aloina brevirostris has a much wider distribution in North America than previously suspected, and that instead of being a western species, it extends across the northern part of the whole continent. Furthermore, the restricted habitat of this moss on fine calcareous silts makes it a good indicator species for the presence of calcium ion and for certain definite ranges of particle size within the silt substratum.
10.2307/2484590|Examination of
10.2307/2483476|A desmid identified as Closterium gracile Breb. is described as possessing zones of elongation (median girdles, Gurtelbandern) which hitherto have not been recorded for the species. It is suggested that because of the delicacy of the sutures these zones have been previously overlooked.
10.2307/2482903|Two new plant species from the Upper Oligocene Ruby Paper Shale Flora of the upper Ruby River Basin in southwestern Montana are here described. Mahonia peloronta n. sp. of the family Berberidaceae appears to be related to M. lobodonta Becker. Floerkea rubyensis n. sp. represents the first fossil record for the family Limnanthaceae. Astragalus wilmattae (Cockerell) LaMotte is presented as new to the fossil Ruby record; additional detail of morphological structures is recorded for the following previously reported fossils of Dipteronia insignis (Lesquereux) Brown, Eucommia browni Becker, Ulmus sp. Becker, and Thlaspi primaevum Becker.
10.2307/2996780|This study quantified tree seedling establishment and mortality over a ten year period (1984-1993) in an Ohio deciduous forest complex which included upland beech-maple (Acer-Fagus) forest, lowland ash-elm (Fraxinus-Ulmus) forest, and young pin oak (Quercus palustris) forest. Annual establishment averaged 316 seedlings/100 m
10.2307/2483397|The development of a telial lesion from a uredial lesion was followed. The types of cells in these lesions were found to vary. Certain ones contained chains of cells consisting of both uredial and telial members and in a few chains the transition of a uredial cell into a telial cell was followed. Karyogamy and teliospore specialization in a basal uredial cell offer further support to the speculation that the uredospore is a structure homologous to the teliospore.
10.2307/2996914|Quercus crispipilis (Trel.) is a dominant tree in mature pine-oak forests of the highlands of Chiapas (Mexico) and Guatemala. Seedlings and saplings of oaks and pines are found in early, open, seral communities, but are infrequent under the closed canopy of dense stands. To better define some of the factors affecting the regeneration of Q. crispipilis in fragmented forests, we studied acorn removal by animals, and the survival and growth of trans-planted seedlings (2 months old) and saplings (30 months old) during a 21-month period in five seral stands (Grassland, Shrubland, and Early Successional, Mid-Successional, and Mature Forest). Seed removal was high in all stands during April-July 1988, but it was lower in non-forested sites when acorns were abundant on the ground (October and November). Survival of seedlings was low in forested stands with deep shade, and mortality was frequently associated with damping-off. Leaf number per seedling increased with time in the open sites, and did not significantly change in the more open forest areas. Survival of saplings in the grassy stand was lower than in the other sites, and sheep browsing and trampling were the main causes of their death. The highest survival and number of leaves were recorded for saplings at the shrubby stand. It is concluded that Q. crispipilis is not able to regenerate under deep shade, but requires open patches in which browsing and trampling by ungulates is absent or minimal. Habitat fragmentation caused by traditional land use patterns in the study area does not seem to hinder, and may even facilitate, the natural regeneration of tropical highland pine-oak forests.
10.2307/2482545|Ruellia is a genus of approximately 225 species widely distributed in the tropics. Two species found in northeastern U. S. are R. caroliniensis (Walt.) Steud., and R. humilis Nutt. The species are homoploid with n = 17. The purpose of this investigation was to examine the relationship of these species in a four state area where they are sympatric. Variation patterns were determined from herbarium collections and transplants grown in the greenhouse. Overlapping variation was detected involving diagnostic characters used to discriminate between them. The species can be hybridized and possibly natural hybridization is a factor in causing the observed morphological intergradation. Ruellia caroliniensis and R. humilis are probably elements of the same biological species.
10.2307/2483985|Using an aceto-carmine squash technique for ovules, embryo sac development was studied in a facultatively apomictic biotype of the compilospecies Dichanthium, intermedium and two of its progenies. The parent was found to have a side-by-side development to maturity of both sexual and aposporous embryo sacs. In the 4-nucleate mature aposporous sac, division of the egg usually took place before anthesis, and early embryogeny preceded endosperm development. Of the two hybrids studied, one was fully sexual with no trace of aposporous sac development, while the other revealed, during early stages of megagametogenesis, rudiments of aposporous sacs, but only the sexual sacs ever reached maturity. It was postulated that versatility in the mode of reproduction of D. intermedium played a major role in the evolution of this compilospecies.
10.2307/2996764|The southern Appalachian spruce-fir ecosystem is described in terms of stand structure and comparisons of current status to descriptions of earlier studies at three sites: Mount Rogers National Recreation Area (NRA) of Virginia, the Black Mountains of North Carolina, and the Great Smoky Mountains of Tennessee and North Carolina Community classification using two-way indicator species analysis delineated four forest types: SPRUCE, SPRUCE-BIRCH, SPRUCE-FIR, and FIR. Both the Mt. Rogers NRA and Black Mountains sites were patchworks of disturbance histories while most of the Smokies site was old-growth. At second-growth plots average dominant and codominant red spruce (Picea rubens Sargent) age ranged from 59-100 years while at the Smokies spruce mean age varied from 168-210. Distribution of basal area at the Smokies was skewed towards diameter distributions of greater than 45 cm DBH while basal area at Mt. Rogers NRA and the Black Mountains was concentrated in trees with diameters of less than 45 cm. Past studies indicated that undisturbed spruce-fir species distribution tended to follow an elevation gradient: spruce dominance changing to Fraser fir (Abies fraseri (Pursh) Poiret) dominance as elevation increased. Current stand composition at the Black Mountains and the Great Smokies also shows a shift from spruce to fir; however, Mt. Rogers is an exception to that trend. As fir abundance increases with elevation there are increasing levels of balsam woolly adelgid-caused (Adelges piceae Ratzeburg) mortality at the Black and Smoky Mountains where there is a greater proportion of standing dead fir than live fir. Unlike the other two sites, Fraser fir on Mount Rogers still have escaped major damage from the adelgid. But advanced age structure of fir stands on top of Mount Rogers and elsewhere may result in high mortality rates in the near future.
10.2307/2997195|Data on vegetation and environmental variables were collected for creeping blueberry stands throughout the geographical range of Vaccinium section Herpothamnus. Sixty-seven stands in North and South Carolina with populations of section Herpothamnus greater than 10,000 m
10.2307/2484888|Paleocene strata in Chubut Province, Argentina yielded a single leaf impression having a narrow elliptic shape and pinnate brochidodromous venation. The lower half of one side of the mostly entire leaf margin is marked by irregularly spaced, spinose teeth with medial veins branching below the tooth and sending the apical branch to the sinus. Although features of this leaf are found in the Proteaceae, Meliosmaceae, and Akaniaceae, a number of its characters are unique to the latter family. This find extends the past geographic range of this currently endemic Australian family, places a minimum age of Late Paleocene on its appearance, and indicates a relatively slow rate of morphologic change in the Akaniaceae.
10.2307/2995913|The present distribution of chestnut sprout clones in Andover, Massachusetts, includes areas with abundant stumps from canopy trees killed by blight before 1922, and former abandoned pastures adjacent to woodlots that once contained mature chestnut trees Sprout densities range from less than 1 to more than 200 living clones per hectare Greatest densities occur in areas with abundant logs and stumps from preblight chestnut tress, but some areas with abundant chestnut wood have very few living sprouts Limited numbers of chestnut sprouts were found with living stems growing from small knobs of cambium on the root collars of otherwise completely dead stumps of former canopy trees More than 95 per cent of all observed chestnut sprouts show no connection with remains of preblight trees, and almost all appear to have been through several cycles of blight infection The distribution pattern of these sprouts indicates that they originated as suppressed seedlings established before 1922 and not as sprouts from the roots of canopy dominants No signs of recent seedling establishment or vegetative reproduction by sprouting from roots away from the root collar on either small live sprouts or long dead chestnut stumps were found Vegetative reproduction is now occurring by relatively rare instances of layering, and by slow expansion and division of root crowns at a rate which probably more than offsets the low mortality of entire clones Chestnut sprouts that have escaped blight for many years indicate that the natural growth condition of suppressed chestnut seedlings is a single stem with controlled release of individual basal buds This process involves a complex mechanism for apical control of the entire clone that appears to be part of a definite reproductive strategy
10.2307/2482448|1. The white snakeroot, Eupatorium rugosum, is a far-ranging herb of the eastern forest. 2. A study was conducted to evaluate the flowering behavior of stock materials from wide-spread sources. a. Stock sources ranged from Ottawa, Canada to the Missouri Ozarks, and from New England to Minnesota. b. Plants were grown from seed and observed under three photoperiods, 9, 14, and 19 hours. 3. Flowering was most successful with a 14-hour photoperiod. 4. For 14 hours, a clinal type of variation in blooming development and maturity was noted for the several geographic populations. Sharp separations in response were not evident. a. Flowering was earliest in northern stocks and was progressively later with more southerly plants, suggesting a selection for length of growing season. b. Midwestern plants from Minnesota and Iowa were somewhat earlier in blooming than latitudinal equivalents farther east, Ottawa, Canada, and New Haven, Connecticut. Increasing continentality as well as elevation perhaps are factors for consideration. Additional study is required. 5. On the basis of longer daylength and earlier blooming, it is suggested that northern plants in native habitat flower under a longer photoperiod than those more southerly; however, all geographic selections responded in positive fashion to a 14-hour photoperiod. 6. Height growth was increased with increasing periods of light. Plants under 9 hours showed stunting effects, and flowered sparingly and without sequential pattern. Nineteen hour plants grew vigorously, but showed only a protracted bud development, which under observed conditions did not reach full bloom. 7. Tall. vigorous plants under 19 hours which showed no visible signs of flowering after 2 months, when placed under 9 hours, flowered in 10 to 14 days. Check plants continued vegetative growth. 8. Similar results of accelerated blooming under 9 hours was shown on a separately bagged branch of a full-grown specimen previously under 19 hours. A 19-hour branch on the same individual showed no sign of flowering. Flower development was evident on a 14-hour branch, but was less advanced than under 9 hours. The effect of curtailing the light period on plants previously under favorable growth conditions is to stimulate the reproductive phase of development.
10.2307/2482708|Leaf anatomy and epidermis of 12 species of Gouinia are examined. The results, together with morphological traits, are described. Gouinia is clearly different from Arundineae and is closely related to the chloridoid grasses in morphological, anatomical, and histological features. In connection with the systematic position of Gouinia, the delimitation of Arundineae is discussed, and the genera Arundo, Cortaderia, Gynerium, Lamprothyrsus, Phragmites, Hakonechloa, Moliniopsis, Molinia and Crinipes are referred to this tribe. It is concluded that Gouinia may be most naturally placed in Chlorideae-Eragrostinae.
10.2307/2483490|Since the type material of Diplodia variispora Died. was found to be a mixture of perfect (ascigerous) and imperfect (pycnidial) fungi, its segregation and nomenclatural combinations are proposed as (1) Muelleromyces variisporus (Died.) Ullasa for the former and (2) Kamatella longipedicellata (T. S. & K. Ramkr.) Ullasa for the latter. An emended description of the form genus Kamatella Anahosur is furnished based on critical study of several collections including type materials.
10.2307/2996023|Lomatium erythrocarpum, a new subalpine species collected from xeric south slopes in the higher Blue Mountains of northeastern Oregon, is described and illustrated It is distinguished by its diminutive stature, usually simple caudex, glabrous-glaucous habit, broadly winged rachises, white or purplish flowers, and glossy red-tinged fruit Comparisons are made with other morphologically and ecologically similar species from the Pacific Northwest and adjacent regions, including Lomatium martindalei, L donnellii, L canbyi, L attenuatum, Cymopterus glaucescens, and C ibapensis Evaluation of habitat and growth form suggest that the affinities of the new species lie with congeners adapted to lower elevations
10.2307/2483547|An investigation was made of the nature and variability of dormancy in achenes of Bistorta bistortoides (Pursh) Small collected from three sites in the Colorado Rocky Mountains. Water and oxygen uptake were not limited by the pericarp as shown by respiration and water uptake studies; therefore achene dormancy may be attributed to some physiological process that requires a certain amount of time to reach completion. The time required can be modified by light, temperature, stratification, or leaching. With time there may be change in the high fat content of the embryo and/or inhibitor-stimulator concentrations. Achenes exhibited variability in degree of dormancy in a single sample and change in degree of dormancy during storage. Also, variability in dormancy when collected at the same site during different years or during the same year at different sites was observed. It is postulated that variability in dormancy of achenes collected during different years at the same site may be due to environmental preconditioning via the mother plant, and that variability in dormancy of achenes collected during the same year at different sites may be due to genetic differences between isolated populations of plants. Viability tests showed that achenes at least five years old were capable of germinating. Viability and variability in the degree of dormancy would allow germination to occur over a period of years, and then presumably, viable achenes would be present in the soil even after poor seed years.
10.2307/2996644|The pollen wall development of Welwitschia mirabilis (Gnetopsida), Michelia fuscata, Manglietia tenuipes, Magnolia delavayi (Magnoliaceae), Asimina triloba, Anaxagorea brevipes (Annonaceae), and Nymphaea coerulea (Nymphaeaceae) were investigated. In all the taxa studied primexine matrix formation is completed prior to the first recognizable electron dense elements of the primexine becoming evident. Development of the primexine in all the taxa studied begins on the most distal portion of the primexine matrix. This is unlike many columellate angiosperms, where the radially directed elements of the infrastructural layer are the first recognizable electron dense elements of the exine (e.g., Austrobaileya maculata, Austrobaileyaceae). Following the development of the sexine the nexine (sensu lato) is accreted by the apposition of sporopollenin coated unit-like membranes. The developmental pattern of the pollen of W. mirabilis is more similar to primitive angiosperms than to the other gymnosperm taxa that have been investigated. The similarity of the pollen wall development of W. mirabilis to various magnolialean taxa in conjunction with recent reports of angiosperm-like vessels and double fertilization in the Gnetopsida lend support to the designation of the Gnetopsida as the angiosperm outgroup.
10.2307/2996880|This study investigated the community ecology of an old-growth Quercus prinus L. forest on a dry talus slope in southeastern Pennsylvania. Quercus prinus trees up to 367 years in age dominated the canopy layer. Acer rubrum L., Betula alleghaniensis Britton, Betula lenta L. and Nyssa sylvatica Marsh. occupied a small share of canopy space but dominated understory positions. Acer rubrum was the only canopy species present in significant numbers in the sapling layer. Presettlement forests of the region were dominated by Quercus velutina Lam., Quercus alba L., Castanea dentata (Marsh.) Borkh. and Carya spp. Following European settlement, frequent cutting and burning associated with the charcoal iron industry promoted oak coppice stands during the 19th century and prevented the development of a shade tolerant understory. Age determinations indicated that Q. prinus recruited continuously from 1625 until 1920. However, radial growth analysis indicated that peak recruitment of both the oak and mixed mesophytic tree species was associated with past disturbances. Cessation of frequent cutting, reduced occurrence of fire and the loss of C. dentata facilitated establishment of A. rubrum, B. lenta and B. alleghaniensis in the understory early this century. Results of this study indicate the potential for replacement of oak by more tolerant species on this and similar dry sites in the northern mid-Atlantic region which are traditionally considered to be physiographic or edaphic climaxes.
10.2307/2481764|1. Evidence for the occurrence of cellular fusion by means of conjugation tubes in Bacillus megaterium has been presented with the concomitant development of greatly enlarged and probably diploid nuclei. 2. The process is interpreted here as sexual, and because of the observation that unrelated cells, i.e., non-sister cells, can partake in the process, it seems likely that it will be possible to produce evidence to substantiate the cytologic evidence.
10.2307/2484002|Pericyclic protuberances with definitive characteristics of lateral root primordia occur in the embryo of buckwheat seeds. Formation of lateral root primordia during embryogeny is apparently a hitherto unreported phenomenon.
10.2307/2996363|Through the use of "cafeteria" experiments with the diaspores of 17 herbaceous species and with 3 species of ants, 12 southern Appalachian herbs, unreported as myrmecochores, were found to be ant-dispersed. The 12 species included three species of the genus Carex and Scleria triglomerata (Cyperaceae), three species of Panicum (Poaceae), two species of Hexastylis (Aristolochiaceae), Chrysogonum virginianum var. australe (Asteraceae), Disporum lanuginosum (Lilaeaceae), and Galium circaezans (Rubiaceae). Here, myrmecochory is reported for the first time in the genera Galium and Panicum. The structure of the elaiosome in each species is also discussed. Galium circeazans and Disporum lanuginosum seem to have elaiosomes that are structurally different from any that have been heretofore described.
10.2307/2995915|Numerical taxonomic analysis of character variation indicates that Prenanthes roanensis deserves status as a species distinct from but closely related to P altissima and P serpentaria, and that P cylindrica is synonymous with P. roanensis All three species have a chromosome number of 2n = 8
10.2307/2482887|1. A South African species Elyonurus argenteus is found to have five pairs of chromosomes. 2. This is the second genus in the Andropogoneae with this number and is offered as further evidence of five as the basic number of the tribe and also is support of the close relationship of the Andropogoneae and the Maydeae. 3. A somewhat detailed study of meiosis showed that all of the stages from pachytene to the spore tetrad were extremely clear and easy to study. The meiotic behavior was found to be completely regular. 4. The potentials of this species for cytogenetic studies were pointed out. It is a long lived perennial, with low chromosome numbers. The chromosomes are quite large and all five pairs can apparently be distinguished by rather simple techniques.
10.2307/2484262|Danthonia sericea (Gramineae) occurs in two markedly different types of habitats (well-drained sandy upland sites and open bogs or low wet areas) in the New Jersey Pine Barrens. Our objectives were to determine if these ecological variants differed in the distribution and abundance of stomata and/or in stomatal responses to a moisture gradient. Whole leaf measurements and epidermal imprints on plants of four populations (two upland and two wet), grown for eight months in a uniform environment, were utilized. All populations exhibited a similar gradual reduction in width of the stomatal aperture as the soil became drier. Upland populations had thicker leaves, more pubescence, more pronounced adaxial surface ribbing, adaxial and abaxial stomata (wet populations had adaxial stomata only), more stomata per mm
10.2307/2484466|Germination and competition were examined in the greenhouse for the introduced C
10.2307/2483180|Light microscope studies of fresh and preserved material of Macrocystis pyrifera showed that strands of cytoplasm or of cytoplasm-like material could be seen approaching, but not penetrating the sieve plates of the sieve tubes, especially when such cells were stained with certain compounds like magdala red and alizarin red. Occasionally bodies resembling chromoplasts were found in the cytoplasm of sieve tubes and accumulated formazan, the reduced form of tetra-zolium chloride. Aniline blue or mercuric bromphenol blue stained the callose but did not reveal strands penetrating the pores of the sieve plates. Electron microscope studies of the sieve tubes revealed that plates were penetrated with strands of an electron dense material and that the pores of the plates are not unobstructed. Whether the sieve plate was layered with callose or not, the penetrations of the pores appeared to be a continuous extension or web of material resembling the endoplasmic reticulum.
10.2307/2997071|That upland forests of Quercus stellata Wang. and Q. marilandica Muench. suppress understory plants was demonstrated with experiments that relieved the suppression. Causative factors of this suppression are (i) oak litter inhibits seed germination, largely by physical-mechanical means; (ii) oak roots compete strongly with understory plants, slowing growth and indirectly killing seedlings; (iii) oak roots have an allelopathic effect that inhibits seedling growth; and (iv) green oak foliage produces water-soluble toxins that further restrict the growth of seedlings of understory plants. The two oak species are apparently similar in some of their effects and dissimilar in others. The complex spatial and temporal pattern of suppression is discussed.
10.2307/2482280|1. Three hundred species were collected in a forest of pines, oaks, and Liquidambar at Montebello, Chiapas, Mexico. Of those identified, 14.5 per cent are species which appear to be identical with species found in eastern and southern United States, 49.6 per cent are species of genera represented by different species in the United States, and 35.9 per cent are species of genera not present in the United States. About 67 per cent are Mexican and Central American species and 33 per cent are species of wider tropical distribution. 2. A slightly smaller percentage of species identical with those in the United States (principally in the southeastern part) but a much larger percentage of genera which range to the United States were found in the Montebello forest than were found by Miranda and Sharp in similar forests. 3. About two-thirds of the plants in the Montebello forest and somewhat more than half of the plants in other forests containing pines, oaks, and Liquidambar, are endemic to Mexico and Central America. While 33 per cent of the plants in the Montebello forest were of wide tropical distribution, only 11 per cent of such plants were reported for other similar forests in Mexico. 4. Six species, listed as endemic to Guatemala, are now known to be present in Mexico. The range of 17 additional species can now be extended to southern Mexico, and that of 2 species, reported in Tabasco, can now be extended to Chiapas. 5. Much more study will have to be made before conclusions can be drawn about the relationships of the forests apparently indicated by the presence of Liquidambar Styraciflua.
10.2307/2484162|Previous study of a community of red oaks in New Jersey provided evidence of hybridization involving all three species present: Quercus ilicifolia, Q. marilandica, and Q. velutina. The research reported here attempts to a) clarify further the extent and directon of hybridization, and b) determine if patterns of hybridization detected with morphologic and chromatographic data sets illustrate congruence. Twenty-two morphological variables for each of 87 trees were analyzed by analysis of variance, principal components analysis, and discriminant analysis. Three statistically defined species groups and intermediately positioned hybrids were recognized, suggesting that hybridization is restricted to crosses of Q. ilicifolia-marilandica and Q. marilandica-velutina. Chromatographic profiles of the same trees (methanolic leaf extracts) revealed distinctive profiles for each species and permitted detection of putative hybrids. Principal coordinate analysis of a similarity matrix based on the presence or absence of thirty phenolic compounds produced a two-dimensional plot very similar to that produced with principal components analysis of the morphological data. Further, a discriminant analysis of phenolic characters, in which the individual trees were assigned to groups defined by the morphological analyses, resulted in no misclassification. The patterns of phenolic variation strengthened the conclusion that hybridization is not occurring between Q. ilicifolia-velutina. Additionally, there is agreement between these data and previously hypothesized evolutionary relationships among the three taxa.
10.2307/2483073|1. The epiphyllous inflorescence in Turnera ulmifolia is axillary in origin and through subsequent growth in the foliar buttress is displaced to a petiolar position. Vascular attachment between the inflorescence and the main axis is through two traces and is similar to that between a branch and the main axis. The presence of inflorescence and foliar traces in the base of the fertile petiole is considered cogent evidence for interpreting the inflorescence primordium as axillary in origin. If this be accepted as valid, 10 out of 13 species of Turnera examined have epiphyllous inflorescences which originated in the axil of a foliar primordium. 2. The foliar origin of the epiphyllous inflorescence reported by DeCandolle for Helwingia is confirmed in H. japonica. 3. The primordia of epiphyllous inflorescences are considered to be excellent growth markers. 4. Species having epiphyllous flowers are of more frequent occurrence in tropical and subtropical floras than in temperate floras. A family (Turneraceae, for example) may have genera in which the inflorescence in all the species maintain the axillary position at maturity (Wormskoldia, Streptopetalum, and Mathurina) and in addition may have genera (Periqueta and Turnera) with both axillary and epiphyllous species, or all the species in a genus may be epiphyllous (Helwingia in the Cornaceae).
10.2307/2484103|Centaurium namophilum spec. nov. is described from the Ash Meadows area of southern Nye County, Nevada, and adjacent areas of the Death Valley region in Inyo County, California. The new species is most closely related to C. trichanthum, but may be readily distinguished from the latter by its open paniculate-cymose inflorescence, narrow cauline leaves, and shorter calyx, corolla-tube and corolla-limb, and anthers. Both species have a chromosome number of n = 17.
10.2307/2997009|The age structure of red maple (Acer rubrum L.) in two agricultural fields that were abandoned 16 and 20 yr ago was investigated in order to determine the timing of this species' invasion during the North Carolina piedmont old field successional sequence. At the 20 yr old site, red maples in the 6-12 yr age classes accounted for 78% of the individuals measured, and individuals in the 2-5 and 13-20 yr age classes were poorly represented. Individuals in the 2-7 yr age classes made up 86% of the red maples sampled at the 16 yr old site. These data suggest that most successful red maple establishment in the early phase of the piedmont successional sequence does not occur until 6-9 yr after abandonment of the field. The results of this study contrast with those identified by Rankin and Pickett's (1989) study of red maple invasion in a New Jersey old field, which indicated that most successful invaders established within the first 2 yr after abandonment. Local and regional variation in the opening and closing of establishment windows for red maple during old field successional sequences may result from differences in climate, soils, seed predation, seed availability, site size and shape, or herbivory.
10.2307/2482267|The chromosome numbers of 80 species in 38 genera of Gramineae are reported. Of these the chromosome numbers of 52 species are reported for the first time. The basic chromosome number x = 8 which is very unusual in the Gramineae is confirmed in the genus Triodia. The basic number in the genus Pappophorum and its allies is 10 and the chromosomes are small, thereby setting this group off from the typical Festuceae. Eragrostis and its allies are cytologically very close to the Chlorideae, both groups having small chromosomes and basic numbers 9 and 10. The monotypic Vaseyochola multinervosa, which at different times has been placed in the genera Melica, Distichlis and Triodia, is cytologically distinct from these genera in having a different basic chromosome number. The group Epicampes of Muhlen-bergia is cytologically indistinguishable from the other species of that genus. The monotypic Brachyelytrum erectum shows cytological relationship to Stipa and its allies, having a basic number x = 11. The basic number in the genus Hilaria is x = 9. No aneuploidy was found in the six species of Bouteloua studied although previous workers report its occurrence. With the study of Leersia lenticularis and L. monandra it is found that all United States species of this genus have the same chromosome number, n = 24. Zizania texana like all other species of the genus has n = 15 chromosomes. Panicum reptans has a basic number x = 7 and is the only species in the genus so far studied cytologically to have a basic number other than x = 9. Eremochloa ophiuroides with x = 9 is the fourth genus in the Andropogoneae with this basic number.
10.2307/2481964|1. In Galtonia candicans as in Allium cepa polyploid divisions were found to occur normally durin development. 2. These divisions were commonly found in the cortical cells of the cotyledon when the seedling was 8 mm. long. 3. As the seedling increased in length, these divisions decreased in number. They were never found in seedlings longer than 20 mm. 4. The polyploid divisions were tetraploid divisions with paired chromosomes. 5. A single octoploid division were tetraploid divisions with paired chromosomes. 5. A single octoploid division was noted. This cell showed an association of chromosomes in groups of four. 6. The early development of the seedling was also reported.
10.2307/2483753|Stems and petiolar bases of a small fern-like plant, Catenopteris simplex, are described from Illinois coal balls. The new genus exhibits adaxial curvature of petiolar traces and a protostele with scalariform tracheids; the generalized fern-like characters of this genus present links between the anatomy of coenopterid ferns and other filicinean members.
10.2307/2483804|All standing dead and live trees within an 80 x 80 meter area of jack pine were mapped. One hundred random points were established on the map. The distance measurements from the points to: a) the nearest live tree, b) nearest live or dead tree, c) from the live tree nearest the point to its nearest live neighbor, d) from the live or dead tree nearest the point to its nearest live or dead neighbor all indicate a random distribution of trees.
10.2307/2996206|How pronounced can variation in reproductive characters and resource allocation be among latitudinal populations of a widely distributed species? Do different characters show similar patterns of variability? Data to answer such questions were collected in field, transplant garden, glasshouse, and phytotron studies of Danthonia caespitosa Gaud., a perennial grass distributed throughout southern Australia There were no significant latitudinal patterns in percentage biomass allocation (to leaves, stems, and panicles), and in number and weight of caryopses (seeds) per 10 grams of shoot biomass, in the field; or in number and weight of seeds per spikelet, number of spikelets per panicle, number of seeds per panicle, weight of individual panicles, and mean weight per seed in either field or garden, although there were often significant differences among populations There were significant latitudinal patterns for number of panicles per 10 grams of shoot biomass in both field and garden, and in the garden for percentage of shoot biomass allocated to panicles, and number and weight of seeds per 10 grams of shoot biomass Measurements under field, garden, and phytotron conditions indicated that mean weight per seed is a population rather than a species character, and that seed weight is as variable and plastic as the other reproductive characters Phenotypic flexibility differed among populations, and the various characters showed strikingly different patterns of variability among populations. The predictability of character patterns from theory or prior studies was less than 50%
10.2307/2483456|A field study of 10 species of Solidago (Compositae) growing in Dryden, New York, revealed several trends in their reproductive biology. Their mean dates of flowering ranged from August 24 (S. juncea) to September 18 (S. arguta). Late-flowering species had briefer flowering periods than did early-flowering species; this may have been an inherited adaptation for minimizing mortality occasionally caused by early frosts. Late-flowering species bore fewer flowers per rhizome than did early-flowering species, perhaps because late-flowering species, especially their flowers and seeds, are less subject to attack by herbivores and consequently are under less selective pressure to evolve higher rates of reproduction. There was a significant tendency for species which flowered at the same time to occupy different habitats and for species in the same habitat to flower at different times. This was interpreted in terms of reproductive isolation.
10.2307/2483111|1. The cytological effects of gibberellin are different from those of colchicine. There is no c-mitosis nor induction of polyploidy. 2. The cytological effects of gibberellin are different from those of such growth promoting substances as alpha-naphthalene acetic acid. Resting differentiated cells are not stimulated to enter mitosis. 3. Under treatment with gibberellin prophase chromosomes show a clear spiral structure and their chromatids are separated from each other. Metaphase chromosomes assume a segmented and later a banded appearance that is similar to the banded structure of the salivary gland chromosomes of the Diptera.
10.2307/2484365|Intact seeds of common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca L.) were innately dormant at maturity in October. Stratification was effective in overcoming dormancy, and nondormant seeds germinated in both light and darkness. One week of stratification was effective in overcoming dormancy in some of the seeds; seeds stratified in light and then incubated in darkness at 30/15 C germinated to 75.3%. Seeds stratified in light or darkness for 2 and 3 weeks and then incubated in light or darkness germinated to 68% or more at thermoperiods of 35/20 and 30/15 C but germinated to 20% or less at 20/10 C. Seeds stratified for 9 weeks also germinated to high percentages (70% or more) at 20/10 C. Seeds planted in a nonheated greenhouse in October germinated the following spring and most of the germinatoin occurred between 4 April and 5 May, when the mean maximum and minimum daily temperatures were 20.5 and 9.1 C, respectively.
10.2307/2995893|Thirty-two stands in the spruce-fir forests of Whiteface Mountain in the Adirondacks, originally sampled from 1964-66, were resurveyed in 1982 From 10-25 Bitterlich points were used in each stand in 1982 to obtain an estimate of basal area per hectare Data were summarized for low elevation (<900m) and high elevation (900m) forests Red spruce (Picea rubens Sarg) declined by 40-60% in basal area for the low elevation forests and by 60-70% above 900m Balsam fir (Abies balsamea (L) Mill) decreases by 35% at high elevations, due to natural disturbance in several of the stands, but was unchanged when only undisturbed stands were considered The decline of red spruce accounted for about three quarters of the total decrease in basal are for both the high and low elevation forests. Spruce seedling frequency for the high elevation sample decreased by 80%, but was unchanged below 900m The pattern of spruce decline in the Adirondacks is similar to findings for New England The cause of the decline is speculative at this time
10.2307/2484870|Pollen of nine species of Vellozia and six of Barbacenia, all from Brazil, South America, were examined with transmission electron microscopy. That of Vellozia occurred exclusively as tetragonal tetrads and consisted of thin exines with obscure apertures. At least two morphological types could be recognized. Pollen of Barbacenia was characterized by thick exines and long single sulci, and species identification was not clearly evident in this genus. In both genera, the pollen was treated by two methods: potassium hydroxide and acetolysis. Comparison of the results of the treatments indicated basic morphological similarities within each genus but also signaled the hazards of strict reliance on standard processing techniques. The need for further endomorphic studies is emphasized.
10.2307/2484234|Continuous temperature recordings above, in, and below Cakile plants on the strand provided a summary of temperatures experienced by dormant seeds, germinating seedlings, and maturing plants in nature. The first appearance of seedlings occurred earlier in the season this year than last and was not preceded by precipitation of the duration and magnitude hypothesized from 1969-70 data to be required for germination. However, greater frequency of overcast days and cooler daily maximum temperatures in 1970-1 may have been confounding factors. The pattern of seedling establishment was not related to decomposition products or leached substances from herbage which may have been in the soil. The number of seedlings, at any given time, was on the average 57% greater this year than last, but seedling mortality was high. During one 64 day winter period, with 443 mm rain, there was 91% mortality in a sample of marked seedlings. Seeds artificially sown behind the foredune germinated (> 30%), grew slowly during spring and summer, and flowered poorly if at all. Many did survive for more than 5 months; drought, rather than herbivory, seemed to be the major cause of seedling death. Immersion in sea water of upper seeds in fruit (imitative of conditions during dispersal by currents) stimulated subsequent germination in nonsaline conditions.
10.2307/2482840|1. A study of axillary branch buds of Gossypium hirsutum by dissection and microscopic examination of cross sections shows that the second axillary bud is a branch of the first just as the first is an axillary branch of the primary axis. 2. The small bract-like leaf which accompanies the buds has been shown to be a prophyll of the first axillary. It is in the axil of this inconspicuous structure that the second axillary arises. 3. This interpretation of the bud positions suggests that they are of the same morphological character. Thus, new mechanisms must be conceived to explain why one is often reproductive while the other remains vegetative.
10.2307/2996862|The 171 taxa of vascular plants of Hempstead Plains, Long Island, New York, were arranged into a Raunkiaer life form spectrum. Over eighty percent of the species have their perennating tissue protected during the unfavorable part of the year (hemicryptophytes, 38%; therophytes, 25%; cryptophytes, 20%). The Hempstead Plains spectrum was compared to spectra developed from species lists for an oak woods, Cold Spring Harbor, New York; Konza Prairie, Kansas; the South Carolina Sand Hills; and the North Carolina Piedmont. The life form spectrum at Hempstead Plains is statistically homogeneous (G-tests) with that of the Konza Prairie, and highly significantly different from the oak woods in Cold Spring Harbor, New York, the South Carolina Sand Hills, and the Piedmont of North Carolina. Based on Raunkiaer life form categories, the Hempstead Plains community is a true prairie.
10.2307/2483165|1. The normal shoot apical meristem of tomato was found to have the form of a convex dome with two tunica layers as previously reported. The cells of the first tunica layer were distinguished from underlying cells by nuclei which absorbed the safranin stain more intensively and by the relatively large numbers of tannin bodies in the cytoplasmic portions of their cells. Tannin bodies were also found in subjacent differentiating tissues with the exception of the procambium. 2. The first cell layer in the developing normal flower apex differed from the first tunica layer of the shoot apex in the absence of special staining properties and of conspicuous tannin bodies. 3. The plants treated with 2,3,5 triiodobenzoic acid (TIBA) developed three basic types of modifications: single, cylindrical structures with rounded tips; single, cylindrical structures with pronounced, funnel-shaped flanges at their tips; and groups of generally three cylindrical structures with rounded tips. Many intergrading forms were also observed. All of these structures almost invariably initiated flower apices at their apical ends. 4. The funnel-shaped flanges on certain modified stem tips often eventually developed into conspicuous ring fasciations with their bases encircling persistent, though inactive, central apical meristems. The beginning flange, or "ring," apparently enlarged by additions of new cells from both outer and inner meristematic tissue. 5. Development of normal leaf primordia of tomato followed the typical angiosperm pattern. The leaf at first produced only a single terminal leaflet but later initiated an upper pair of lateral leaflets and subsequently another pair below the first. The mature leaflet lamina was produced by a marginal meristem and generally possessed seven cell layers. The veins and veinlets in the leaf blade developed mostly from the third laminar layer. 6. No new leaf primordia were initiated at tomato stem apices during TIBA treatment with a few rare exceptions at a late phase of the study. The youngest leaf primordia present at the time of treatment showed the following main histogenetic alterations: (a) a general retardation of cell division and enlargement; (b) an increased development of procambium in the lamina; and (c) a partial inhibition of centers of cell division and enlargement, as shown externally by the reduction in the number of leaflets and the amount of leaflet lobing. The heightened procambial development usually resulted in the formation of a continuous vascular layer. This tissue often did not persist as a continuous layer as the leaf matured. 7. Morphological and physiological aspects of TIBA-induced modifications of tomato are discussed, including the nature of the induced ring fasciations. These rings are interpreted as cauline structures which developed from meristematic tissue in the apical meristem following inhibition of growth in its most apical part.
10.2307/2482991|1. Jackson County lies in the southwestern section of Illinois. It covers an area of about 603 square miles. At present, 1330 species of vascular plants are known from the county. This represents 53% of the species known from the state of Illinois. 2. In this study, the vegetation of the county is divided into several natural communities. Three series are recognized. The river series includes the floodplain, the river bluff, and ravine communities. The pond-swamp series is composed of lakes and ponds, the marsh, the swampy forest, and the prairie. In the upland series are the rock hill slopes and the exposed rock hill communities. 3. A list of adventive species in Jackson County is appended.
10.2307/2483704|The rust on Dalbergia paniculata was originally referred to a new genus Scopellopsis by Ramakrishnan and Ramakrishnan and described as S. dalbergiae. This rust was subsequently placed in synonymy with Maravalia peterocarpi (Thirum.) Thirum. The writer's collection of this rust agrees with the characters of the genus Scopellopsis and is distinct from the genus Maravalia. The rust is therefore maintained under the genus Scopellopsis as S. dalbergiae.
10.2307/2483262|The following new species, Azorella Cuatrecasasii from Colombia, Hydrocotyle Aristeguietae from Venezuela, and Apium uruguayense are described and illustrated, and the new name Apium leptophyllum var. latisectum (Urban) is proposed for Brazilian plants.
10.2307/2483580|An investigation was made of the physiological characteristics of ten strains of Candida mycoderma (Reess) Lodder and Kreger-van Rij. On the basis of differences in requirements for biotin, temperature ranges of growth and capacities to assimilate various carbon compounds, the strains can be separated into two distinct groups each containing five strains. The strains in each group resemble one another closely, but more differences were observed among the strains of one group than among those in the other group. The evidence indicates that the two groups of strains should not be assigned to a single species according to the scheme of Lodder and Kreger-van Rij. However, no specific changes in taxonomy are proposed since the morphological characteristics of the strains were not investigated.
10.2307/2996065|The relationship between open space and fire for species in a xeric Florida shrubland. Fire and open space may both play a role in the development and maintenance of species assemblages. In Florida scrub, the rosemary phase of sand pine scrub has many endemic or endangered herbs observed to utilize gaps between shrubs. In this study, we examined site-level densities of both individual species and species grouped by growth form, average height, fire recovery strategy, specialization, and endemism. We compared densities with time since fire, open space, elevation, ground cover, canopy cover, and soil type. Densities of most obligate-seeding or mixed strategy herbs in this habitat increased with amount of open space among sites. Overall, more open, higher elevation sites had higher densities of obligate seeding and mixed strategy herbs while more closed, lower elevation sites had lower herb densities and higher densities of resprouting and mixed strategy shrubs. Few species had significant patterns of density with time since fire. The amount of open space at a site decreased during the first ten years after fire, but then was highly variable. Open gaps persist for decades in rosemary scrub, in contrast to other Florida scrub types, which may explain the prevalence of seeders and herbs.
10.2307/2484233|Aplectrum hyemale and Orchis spectabilis are terrestrial orchids indigenous to the eastein deciduous forest of North America. Their similarity in habitat and distribution contrasts with differences in vigor and abundance. Environmental, genetic, and physiological reasons for these differences are sought. The main distribution is precisely defined by the occurrence of frost and in the west, by precipitation-evapotranspiration levels. Differences in abundance and vigor are attributable to genetic homozygosity, net negative winter metabolism, and relatively low photosynthetic capacity in Aplectrum hyemale. The implication of microscopic seeds relative to geographic distribution has been to reduce the significance of physical barriers and recent (Pleistocene) history in dispersal of these orchids. The most significant adaptive specialization to the deciduous forest habitat is growth during tree dormancy as a means to avoid intense competition.
10.2307/2483803|Plants that superficially resemble Ruellia humilis of central U.S. are commonly found in central Florida. Much taxonomic confusion has surrounded the correct classification of these specimens; J. K. Small identified them as R. humilis and misapplied the name R. ciliosa to the larger, inland species, R. humilis. The present investigation was designed to determine the correct taxonomic interpretation of these populations in Florida. Morphological comparisons, analysis of natural populations, studies of artificial hybrids, cytological observations, and measurements of fertility in natural and garden populations were used to produce information relative to the solution of this problem. Apparently, the aberrant populations represent R. caroliniensis x R. ciliosa introgressants. Although many of the plants closely resemble dwarf forms of R. humilis, they clearly do not belong to that species. Evaluations are given of the possible evolutionary and taxonomic significance of these populations.
10.2307/2996067|Sedges (Cyperaceae) are the most important family of vascular plants in terms of species richness on Maine peatlands. Carex has more species than any other genus including Sphagnum in these peatlands. Optima (abundance weighted means) and tolerances (abundance weighted standard deviations) of pH, Ca, and shade are given for the 21 most frequently occurring sedge species. These species are also characterized in terms of habitat (vegetation type). Most of the species occur in the open, but a few (e.g., Carex trisperma) are most abundant in wooded habitats. Eriophorum species characterize bog and poor fen habitats. The rarest peatland sedges are all calciphiles. Canonical correspondence analysis with forward selection entered shade, pH, Al, a climate factor, K, Ca, Fe, and Mg as the minimum number of variables which best account for the species distributions. Sedge distributions within this region are determined primarily by gradients of shade and alkalinity/base cations. A comparison with other studies from boreal North American peatlands reveals that ecological requirements can differ across a sedge species' range.
10.2307/2484836|Olof Swartz' manuscript volume "Descriptiones et icones plantarum incognitarum ..." contains 73 drawings, some by him, some by Erik Acharius, of West Indian plant species he collected and published. These drawings (with accompanying descriptive text) constitute a portion of those assembled (the rest apparently lost) for his supplemental Icones plantarum incognitarum, only a small part of which was ever published (13 plates). The manuscript volume also includes nine drawings published in his Observationes botanicae. For the 60 unpublished drawings, data are provided on artist, the Swartz species depicted, its original publication, and its provenance. All the drawings in the volume (at the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences Library in Stockholm) have been photographed and sets of prints are available in London, Pittsburgh, and Kingston (Jamaica).
10.2307/2482994|1. Polyporus acanthoides Fr. (1838 and 1874), is distinct from Bolettus acanthoides Bull. and from Polyporus montanus (Quel.) R. Ferry, but is synonymous with P. biennis (Bull. ex Fr.) Fr. Persoon's figure (1803, t. 6)of Sistotrema rufescens which is cited by Fries and which is synonymous with P. biennis is therefore selected as the lectotype of P. acanthoides Fr. 2. Polyporus acanthoides Rostk. (1848, III (4), 27-28 heft, p. 37, tab. 19 (1-2).) later homonym of Polyporus acanthoides Fr. is considered a synonym of Polyporus giganteus Pets ex Fr. 3. Boletus acanthoides Bull. (1790, t. 486) was placed in synonymy with Polyporus giganteus Pers. ex Fr. by Fries (1821) but was not validated by him at this time nor later (1838) when Polyporus acanthoides Fr. was described and also not by Quelet (1872 and 1886) who during this time followed entirely Fries (1838 and 1874). Therefore, B. acanthoides Bull. appears validated by Quelet only in 1888 as Caloporus acanthoides (Bull.) ex Quel. The combination Cladomeris acanthoides (Fr.) Quel. (1886, p. 168) should be considered in synonymy with P. acanthoides Fr. and misapplied by Bigeard and Guillemin (1909, p. 410) as synonym of Cerioporus montanus Quel. However, in the same work (p. 409) the combination Cladomeris acanthoides (Bull. ex Quel.) Bigeard & Guill. is also found in synonymy with Polyporus giganteus Pers. ex Fr. 4. Polyporus acanthoides in Velenovsky's sense is a misdetermination of P. acanthoides Fr. but referred to Bulliard. In reality it is neither Boletus acanthoides Bull. nor P. acanthoides Fr. On this misdetermined specimen are based the combinations Grifola acanthoides (Fr.) Pilat and Polypihus acanthoides (Fr.) Bond. According to the art. 55 of the Code, these combinations, even applied erroneously, must figure under the synonymy of Polyporus acanthoides Fr. If Velenovsky's specimen is really Polyporus croceus Pers. ex Fr., as suggested by Pilat (1937, p. 146), the combinations Grifola acanthoides and Polypilus acanthoides can be indicated also after the synonymy of Polyporus croceus Pers. ex Fr. followed by the words auct. non Fr., according to the recommendation 50 Fof the Code, but if it is recognized as a new species, it must receive a new name. 5. Polyporus acanthoides Britz., as referred by many authors, does not exist since it was never described. Figures 90 and 93 of Britzelmayr (1890 and 1894) named as P. acanthoides are referred to Bulliard. Both are very poor pictures but, in general, the authors agree that they may represent Polyporus confluens Alb. & Schw. ex Fr. If so, after the synonymy of P. confluens Alb. & Schw. ex Fr., Britzelmayr's misinterpretation can be indicated, according to the code as Polyporues acanthoides auct. non Bull. ex Quel.: Britzehmayr, M. Hymenomyceten aus Sudbayern X, Bericht des naturwissensehaftlichen vereins fur Schwaben und Neuberg, 31: 217. 1894. The pictures were published before in the part VI (1890) but then no author was mentioned after the specific name
10.2307/2482843|1. Young sori of Polypodium virginianum containing meiotic stages in sporogenesis were excised from fresh fronds, fixed for mitochondrial preservation by Lewitsky's method, sectioned at 3 micra and stained with iron hematoxylin. Mature spores were fixed in F A.A. and mounted unstained. 2. Examination of mature spore preparations indicated that the spores of Polypodium virginianum are monolete. 3. Study of stained sections indicated that the pattern of nuclear division and cytokinesis in Polypodium virginianum is essentially similar to Nephrodium and Onoclea and reflects the monolete nature of the mature spore. 4. The trilete polypodiaceous ferns listed in Gray's Manual are discussed and the possibility is considered that their relationship may be reflected in the type of spore they produce as well as in the position of their sporangia under the revolute margin of the frond.
10.2307/2997126|Forests of the Phelps and Gorham Purchase in western New York were of two major types. Beech/Maple Forest, primarily on the Till Plains of the Central Lowlands Province, averaged 32% beech (Fagus grandifolia), 18% sugar maple (Acer saccharum), 12% basswood (Tilia americana), and 11% white oak (Quercus alba). The Allegheny Plateau portion of the tract supported Hemlock/White Pine/Northern Hardwood Forest averaging 19% beech, 12% sugar maple, 11% hemlock (Tsuga canadensis), 11% white pine (Pinus strobus), 10% white oak, and 9% red and black oak (Q. rubra and Q. velutina). Secondary community types of the Allegheny Plateau included beech/maple/white pine/hemlock, oak, oak/hickory (Carya), and pitch pine (Pinus rigida). Those on the Till Plains were principally beech/maple/hemlock/basswood and silver maple (Acer saccharinum)/black ash (Fraxinus nigra)/elm (Ulmus).
10.2307/2483770|In native stands of sycamore, there is a definite zone of reduced growth of associated species under the canopy and in areas of accumulation of fallen leaves. The present study was undertaken to ascertain whether the failure of herbaceous species to grow under the sycamore was due to competition or to chemical inhibitors produced by these trees. Initial studies showed that the failure of the test species to grow under the canopy was not due to low minerals, water or light. On the other hand, decaying leaves, leaf leachate, and soil collected under the sycamore canopy inhibited seed germination and seedling growth of many associated species. Chlorogenic acid, scopolin, and scopoletin were found in extracts of fresh leaves, and the same compounds plus isochlorogenic acid, neochlorogenic acid, band 510 (4-caffeoylquinic acid), and o-coumaric acid were found in extracts of mature fruits Only two of these inhibitory compounds were identified in the leachate of fresh leaves, chlorogenic acid and scopolin.
10.2307/2482286|1. The growths in culture of excised roots of clones from three different tomato lines (representing two species) were compared in a single medium. Among these lines, differences were found in the length of the main axis of the roots, the rate of growth of the main axis, the emergence time of laterals and their growth in relation to their position on the main axis, the total length of the laterals and the presence or absence of secondary laterals. The number of laterals produced was similar for each of the three lines, and the overall growth patterns of the two lines representing the same species were more similar to each other than to the representative of the second species. 2. The relationship between the growth of lateral roots and their position on the main axis was investigated and found to vary among the three lines. The two most basipetal segments containing laterals were found to grow best for two of the lines while in the remaining line segments taken from any position along the main axis bearing visible laterals grew equally well. 3. Studies were also made to determine the relationship between the potential growth of a tip and the age and/or length of the lateral from which it was excised. Optimum segment age was found to be four days in all lines. No correlation was found between the growth of an excised tip and the length of the laterals from which it was taken. Best growth was obtained from the tips of laterals which were within the limits of 20-60 mm. in length.
10.2307/2484267|Only 28 species of lichens are found growing at present in Westchester County.
10.2307/2996347|The flavonoids kaempferol 3-0-galactoside and quercetin 3-0-galactoside occur in flora bracts and leaves of Cornus florida. The flavonoids occur throughout the bracts causing them to be uniformly absorptive of ultraviolet light. Although bracts and leaves do not differ qualitatively in flavonoids, greater concentration of flavonoids was observed in bracts, which might indicate a function for the flavonoids in pollinator attraction.
10.2307/2484693|Palynological investigation of the Maple Bog in the Sunken Forest reveals evidence of the antiquity of the forest and its former vegetation. The bog occupies what may be a remnant of an inlet, cut into the barrier and then sealed, over 250 years ago. Traces of Ilex in the basal sediments indicate that the forest may have existed nearby at that time. Ilex and other constituents of this maritime forest occur throughout the C2 and C3 pollen zones in this region
10.2307/2484758|A preliminary study of variation in spikelet and inflorescence morphology of cultivated sorghums of Ethiopia revealed three morphological types that might be interpreted as primitive, intermediate, and advanced. Before drawing conclusions on evolution, investigations were made of the biogeography and ecology of the three morphological types and the history of the people who grow these sorghums. The people who grow both the morphologically "advanced" sorghums (designated race durra) and the morphologically "intermediate" sorghums (designated durra-bicolor) are known to us as the Galla. Historical records of Arabic, Amharan, and European scholars indicate that before the 16th century the Galla were pastoralists and did not grow sorghum. Furthermore, the worldwide pattern of distribution of durra sorghums suggests durras were developed in India and brought to Ethiopia and other parts of Africa with Moslem armies and colonists. Morphological characteristics of durra-bicolor sorghums that at first appeared primitive, on further consideration, appear to be adaptations for cold, wet environmental conditions that prevail where they are grown. It now seems doubtful that durra sorghums were developed in Ethiopia and that durra-bicolors are evolutionary intermediates between primitive bicolors and large-grained durras. It is more probable that durra-bicolor sorghums are highly derived cultivars selected from durra sorghums or from crosses between durra sorghums and bicolor sorghums adapted to the cool, wet highlands. We conclude it is necessary to consider historical evidence, when such is available, before drawing conclusions about evolutionary history of cultivars.
10.2307/2484119|Smilax tongaensis (sect. Pleiosmilax) is distinguished from S. vitiensis Seem., because of differences in peduncle, perianth, stamen number and length, and blade shape.
10.2307/2484695|Thirty-three taxa of pteridophytes were found and distributed in the Jockey Hollow section as follows: north to northeast-facing slopes had the largest numbers of species and individuals in forests dominated by oaks and black birch; a stream valley had the next largest numbers; south-facing slopes dominated by tulip tree and oaks had few ferns; and second-growth woodlands had almost no ferns. A list of taxa giving locations and relative abundance is included.
10.2307/2483463|The amino acid requirements of two thermophilic fungi, Humicola lanuginosa and Penicillium duponti, were investigated. The study showed that (1) only individual amino acids, glucose and salts were required for the growth of these organisms and (2) purified diatomaceous earth (Celite) can be used to determine the effects of amino acids on development. It was also found that the pigment produced by H. lanuginosa was not necessarily correlated with growth or sporulation.
10.2307/2484014|Cultural studies on Balansia sclerotica (Pat.) Hohn. are reported in which the fungus was brought into artificial culture for the first time from germinating ascospores. The pattern of germination of ascospores is characteristic in which loop-like branches arising from germinating ascospores undergo anastomoses and after two weeks' incubation establish a mycelial colony, bearing numerous conidia. A discussion is presented indicating the cultural differences between the subgenera Balansia and Dothichloe, based upon the characters in artificial culture.
10.2307/2484383|A brief list of plants collected subsequent to the publication of the original survey (Bull. Torrey Bot. Club 105(2): 147-155. 1978.).
10.2307/2996792|Like most other species of Asclepias, A. subulata is largely genetically self-incompatible; of 99 cross-pollinations, 15 were successful, versus only 1 of 99 self-pollinations. The number of apparently viable seeds per cross-pollinated fruit was unexpectedly variable and low, averaging 98.5, as was percent seed germination, which averaged 58.3%. Fluorescence microscopy revealed that self-pollen tubes grew as rapidly as outcross-pollen tubes and entered the micropyles of ovules within the ovary. It appears that this unusual late-acting form of self-incompatibility, which is characteristic of milkweeds, arose early in the basal Asclepiadaceae/Apocynaceae clade and has been retained in both morphologically plesiomorphic and apomorphic lineages.
10.2307/2484360|Nectarless, rostrate flowers of Pedicularis attollens and P. groenlandica exhibited reproductive dependence on Bombus bifarius nearcticus, B. flavifrons dimidiatus, and B. rufocinctus, which foiage for pollen by wing vibration and pollinate facially and nototribically on the dorso-anterior area of the abdomen, respectively. Analysis of corbicular loads of pollen indicated relatively low pollinator fidelity to plant species. Nectariferous, non-rostrate flowers of P. semibar bata were pollinated notot????ibically exclusively by Osmia tristella foraging for nectar and pollen. Cinematographic analysis of pollinator behavior indicated close coadaptation between pollinators and floral mechanisms. A combination of phenological, ecological, mechanical, and ethological factors are considered significant in the development of reproductive isolation in Pedicularis.
10.2307/2484756|Domesticated cereals are grasses which have become so closely associated with man that they can no longer compete successfully with their wild relatives in natural habitats. They are strictly adapted to permanently disturbed habitats, and usually have also lost the ability to disperse their seeds without the help of man. Adaptation to the man-made habitat came about through automatic selection associated with harvesting and sowing. Loss of seed dormancy, increase in grain size, uniform population maturity, uniform maturity of inflorescences on individual plants, and loss of seed dispersal ability characterize domesticated races of almost all cereals. Evolution is rapid under domestication. Superimposed on natural selection pressures associated with harvesting and sowing are selection enforced by man to satisfy his own fancies. Wild and cultivated kinds remain sufficiently alike genetically, however, for them to hybridize wherever they are sympatric. Derivatives from such hybridization frequently accompany the cultivated race as mimic weeds.
10.2307/2484043|Three phenolic compounds previously identified as bacterial inhibitors produced by some of the more important pioneer species in old-field succession in Oklahoma were tested for inhibitory activity against Earliana tomato plants and two of the inhibitors were tested against certain plant species important in succession. A 0.83 x 10
10.2307/2996020|Changes in lipid and carbohydrate reserves were followed during development in light of seedlings of three species of Impatiens I balsamina L, I capensis Meerb, and I pallida Nutt. Etiolated seedlings of I balsamina were also examined I balsamina, with 32% lipids (of which the 18:4 fatty acid, -parinaric acid, comprised 34%) and 63% carbohydrates, utilized insoluble carbohydrate reserves in the first 5 days of germination Fat reserves disappeared between days 4 to 8, although the per cent parinaric acid declined steadily from the first day Increase in soluble sugars was coincident with loss of lipids Seedlings of I capensis and I pallida with 52% and 43% lipids (41% and 22% parinaric acid) and 7% and 21% carbohydrates, respectively, utilized lipids in a manner similar to I balsamina Loss of insoluble reserves was insignificant in both species for several days and soluble carbohydrates did not increase markedly Chromatography showed that soluble sugars of I balsamina were mainly sucrose and glucose but in etiolated seedlings, an unidentified phenolic glycoside and a pentose were prominent by day 10 Both I capensis and I pallida had soluble polysaccharides and traces of pentoses as well None showed evidence of the planteose present in the dry seed, nor of galactose Seedlings greened rapidly when seed coats fell off.
10.2307/2996649|Several corrections and additions to the flora of the region, previously published (Greller 1977, 1979, 1985), are made.
10.2307/2995994|Intra- and interspecific competition experiments were conducted in the greenhouse with seedlings of Prosopis glandulosa var glandulosa Torr (honey mesquite) and Buchloe dactyloides (Nutt) Engelm (buffalo grass). Growth of P glandulosa seedlings by themselves, as measured by number of leaves, stem length, basal diameter, above-, belowground, and total biomass per plant, decreased as plant density increased All of these parameters increased on a per pot basis Root: shoot ratios increased as plant density increased Above-, belowground, and total biomass per plant of B dactyloides decreased with increasing B dactyloides density in monoculture. Root: shoot ratios increased with increasing grass density. A single B dactyloides plant did not significantly reduce above-, belowground or total biomass of P glandulosa seedlings as compared to P glandulosa grown by itself However, B dactyloides densities of two or more caused a significant decrease in all P glandulosa biomass measurements. Root: shoot ratios for both P glandulosa and B dactyloides increased by a factor of two from the lowest to highest grass density when grown together Slopes of log-log regressions of plant density and biomass for both intra- and interspecific interactions were less than zero, showing that both intra- and interspecific competition occurred. Slopes of intra- and interspecific regressions for aboveground biomass of P glandulosa were not significantly different However, slopes of belowground and total biomass were steeper for interspecific competition than for P glandulosa intraspecific competition This suggests that B dactyloides is a better competitor for soil resources than seedlings of P glandulosa, especially at a high grass density In addition, the presence of one seedling of P glandulosa did not have any effect on the slope of regressions of above-, belowground or total biomass of B dactyloides Thus, P glandulosa is probably not an invader of high density, highly productive B dactyloides grasslands; rather, it is a colonizer of open, low-density areas
10.2307/2483164|1. The tracheary elements of ten species of Equisetum are described, in addition to the development of the internodal xylem of the stem in nine species. 2. The tracheary elements are quite diverse and many are highly specialized. They range from simple annular through pitted, simple helical through pitted, and finely reticulate through pitted. They are considered as three separate series of specialization, phylogenetically unrelated. Many of the simple annular elements are modified by the union of adjacent rings in various ways as well as by the dissection of the individual rings. 3. The carinal xylem is mesarch in development while the lateral xylem of the internodal bundle is endarch. The lateral xylem is chronologically independent of the carinal xylem. The carinal xylem as well as the lateral xylem may be composed of both protoxylem and metaxylem. 4. The results indicate that among those species studied the groups composed of E. hyemale, E. kansanum, and E. laevigatum; E. arvense, E. pratense, and E. palustre; and E. variegatum and E. scirpoides are intrarelated closely. In addition, it is indicated that the hyemale group is relatively close to E. variegatum and E. scirpoides.
10.2307/2483903|The genus Sphenoxylon Read was erected for a single petrified axis collected in Upper Devonian marine strata in central New York. The genus Tetraxylopteris Beck was established for complex sterile and fertile branching systems abundantly preserved as compressions in continental deposits in eastern New York (Catskill area). Isolated portions of axes of Tetraxylopteris were preserved anatomically by iron compounds such as pyrite. More recent collections of Tetraxylopteris, reexamination of older specimens, and a reinterpretation of the structure of Sphenoxylon suggest the probability that the two generic names refer to parts of one plant. We retain Sphenoxylon as a form genus for isolated petrifactions of more mature axes and Tetraxylopteris as a natural genus for compressions of branching systems whose overall morphology and anatomy are now rather well understood. The stratigraphic range of Sphenoxylon is here extended from Upper Devonian back into Middle Devonian, and the branching of the vascular supply to the ultimate appendages of Tetraxylopteris is demonstrated.
10.2307/2483986|The germination and growth response of Cakile maritima Scop. to temperature, light, and soil- or air-borne salinity was investigated in the laboratory and the results compared to field observations at Bodega, California. The silicle contains two dimorphic seeds, but there was no evidence that their germination requirements differed. In some respects, Cakile seems adapted to the saline, open strand environment: germination and root growth were not inhibited by 0.1 and 1.0% NaCl; overall seedling growth was not inhibited by 0.8% salt (diluted sea water); amounts of salt spray which inhibited growth of a grassland species had no effect on Cakile; germination was inhibited by light (seeds germinate 5-10 cm below the surface on the strand); and shoot growth was greatly stimulated by light intensities above 1500 ft-c. In other respects, Cakile seems better adapted to the adjacent grassland environment: transplant tests indicated optimal growth of seedlings in weeded grassland soil rather than in strand soil. Its normal exclusion from the grassland was hypothesized to result from shading by more vigorous grassland species.
10.2307/2996281|Buffalo wallows are patchily distributed disturbances in grassland vegetation initiated by male buffalo during the spring rutting season. During the rainy season in spring and early summer, wallows hold water resulting in greater soil moisture than in adjacent grasslands. We examined the effects of early spring burning on wallow vegetation in a wildlife refuge containing about 700 buffalo. Ordinations indicated two vegetation gradients. The first ordination axis was a moisture gradient separating vegetation located outside wallows from that within wallows. The second axis separated samples from the burned and unburned sites. Diversity and richness values were higher outside than inside the wallows. Evenness values, were greatest inside the wallows. Richness was significantly lower in burned than in unburned wallows. Ruderal species such as winter annuals were more abundant in unburned wallows. Overall, wallows contain vegetation different from that of surrounding prairie, which increases regional species diversity in southern mixed grasslands. Also, fire alters the composition of vegetation within wallows to a greater extent than adjacent vegetation. Finally, we suggest that wallows serve as safe-sites for ruderal species within mature grassland vegetation.
10.2307/2482150|1. Streptochaeta, a genus of the Gramineae, comprises two species both of which are confined to the tropics of the western hemisphere. They are characterized by broad, petiolate, cross-veined leaves, spiral phyllotaxy within the inflorescence, and spikelets differing from the typical grass spikelet in many respects. 2. The spikelets are arranged spirally on the rachis, and the eleven bracts within the spikelet are also arranged in a spiral. The first five bracts are scale-like but are morphologically equivalent to the large, awned sixth bract. The next two bracts are in the axil of bract six and are fused at the base. A rudiment is usually present opposite these two bracts and above bract six. The two fused bracts have been regarded as the palea by some investigators and as two members of the outer perianth by others. The present paper shows that these two bracts could also be regarded as sterile lemmas. The following three bracts are generally regarded as the lodicules and equivalent to the inner perianth. Within the cycle of lodicules there are six stamens and an ovary bearing three stigmas. Evidence presented shows that the spikelet may be interpreted as the end result of reduction from a compound branching system. It is probable that distichy has never been expressed in the inflorescence of Streptochaeta. 3. Affinities with the Bambuseae are suggested in the structure of the leaf-blade and the spikelet. Because of the spiral phyllotaxy within the spikelet, Streptochaeta cannot be placed within any of the established subtribes of the Bambuseae, but must be placed either in a special subtribe or a tribe of its own. 4. Although the evidence presented throws some doubt on Celakovsky's interpretation of the spikelet, it does not disprove his idea that the flower of Streptochaeta is primitive.
10.2307/2483273|Gliocephalotrichum Ellis and Hesseltine gen. nov. is described with the single, type species G. bulbilium Ellis and Hesseltine. It is distinguished by having a whorl of typically 4 determinate, sterile, hairlike arms subtending a gloiosporous, compound penicillus on a simple conidiophore and by producing multicellular, intercalary chlamydospores in the filaments. When sown thickly on media, the oblong-elliptical conidia fuse irregularly upon germination.
10.2307/2996989|Savanna plots that were established and sampled in 1984 at Cedar Creek Natural History Area in eastcentral Minnesota were resampled in 1989, towards the end of a major drought period. Tree diameter was measured and mortality was assessed for all stems 10 cm dbh in eleven 50 x 75 m plots. Quercus ellipsoidalis E. J. Hill (northern pin oak) and Q. macrocarpa Michx. (bur oak) dominate the savannas, accounting for >95% of all stems 10 cm dbh. In 1984, diameter distributions and species composition were significantly different on different soil types. Zimmerman soils had a larger proportion of stems in the 10-25 cm dbh size classes (62%) than did the Sartell soils (36-60%), and a significantly larger proportion overall of Q. ellipsoidalis stems (93%) than did the Sartells (51-84%). Plots burned during the previous 20 years had fewer stems in the 10-25 cm dbh size class (45%) compared to unburned plots (58%). These differences were not changed by mortality over the 1984-1989 period, nor did diameter distributions within a plot change significantly over this period. Average five-year mortality rates per plot from 1984-1989 for Q. ellipsoidalis (21.4%, range 0.0-60.0%) were significantly higher than for Q. macrocarpa (6.1%, range 0.0-33.3%). Five-year mortality rates of Q. ellipsoidalis declined from 60% to 15% with higher total stem basal area and density. Drought or large moisture changes may have been primary factors responsible for oak mortality. Other factors, such as percent organic matter, depth to water table, and fire frequency were not correlated with mortality rates. The inverse relation between mortality and stand density suggests that the possible effects of drought varied with stand structure. Closed savannas or woodlands had lower mortality rates than open savannas. These findings emphasize the role of climate in maintaining sand savannas in the prairie-forest border region.
10.2307/2483249|The root apical organization is broadly similar in the twenty seven species of conifers reported upon. There is a common generative center for all the tissues of the root. Based on the cell lineages, this generative center is divided into four zones, riz., zone 1-the group of central initials, zone 2-the stele, zone 3-the columella, and zone 4-the initiating zone for the cortex and peripheral region of the cap. Zone 4 is in the form of a hollow cup or cylinder surrounding the other three zones and the direction of growth is from the proximal to the distal. This type of organization does not correspond to the "gymnospermous type" of root apical organization mentioned in older literature and is named the 'conifer type.' Dormant roots are also observed. Dormancy is accompanied by reduction in the number and size of initials. The root tip becomes covered by layers of cells which become metacutized in different ways. These and the changes accompanying reactivation are described.
10.2307/2484800|The germination of uredospores appears to be controlled by simple molecules. Few of these compounds have been isolated or characterized, and their mode of action is even more obscure. Recent results show that uredospores can serve as excellent models for basic studies of regulatory mechanisms involved in the transition from the resting spore to active growth. The literature on germination inhibitors, stimulators and differentiation factors is reviewed, principally in rust fungi, to provide an example of the scope and direction that the work is taking among higher fungi.
10.2307/2996972|The present distribution of American chestnut (Castanea dentata [Marsh.] Borkh.) as a component of upland forest communities in the mid-Appalachians was investigated in three different areas of western Virginia. Two of these (Alleghany County and the Mountain Lake area of Giles County) are within the Ridge and Valley physiographic province and the third (Shenandoah National Park) is in the Blue Ridge province. Quantitative data on composition and structure of the vegetation and various topographic variables were analyzed using correlation analysis and DCA ordination. The results of these analyses indicate that the present distribution of chestnut is strongly correlated with elevation and site moisture conditions. In general, chestnut was much less abundant (only 192 stems/ha) in Alleghany County (mean elevation of 39 stands = 645 m) than in either Shenandoah National Park (532 stems/ha) or Giles County (770 stems/ha), where sampled stands occur at mean elevations of 882 m (20 stands) and 1079 m (43 stands), respectively. Maximum density of chestnut (> 2500 stems/ha for some stands) occurred on subxeric sites, particularly mid- to upper slope positions on southern exposures. In all three areas, chestnut was conspicuously absent from most mesic sites.
10.2307/2482797|1. Samples of young, and mature, leafy shoots, and weathered stems of the marsh grass Spartina alterniflora Loisel. were collected, from marsh regions along the coast of Georgia, for proximate analyses, and for the determinations of ten B vitamins and ten essential amino acids. 2. Proximate analysis of young Spartina yields values similar to those which have been published for Coastal Bermuda grass. The following data (per cent dry basis) represent the contents of growing shoots of Spartina: fat, 2.98; protein, 13.24; crude fibre, 29.75; ash, 12.83; and nitrogen-free extract, 40 20. The therms per pound are 1.68. 3. Weathered shoots, collected in August from growth of the preceding year, show loss of their leaves, and greatly lowered content of fat, protein, calcium and phosphorus. 4. The B vitamins, in general, appear to be present in adequate amounts for growth of guinea pigs, as is indicated by comparison of the vitamin level in the dried grass and in experimental rations The B vitamins are present in sufficient amounts for growth of heterotrophic microorganisms. 5. The ten essential amino acids, required for growth of the rat and man, constitute about 15 per cent of the protein of Spartina. Biological value of the protein is calculated to be deficient as a nitrogen supply for marine animals, and it is suggested that microbial conversion of the grass may act as a transformer to step up the potential value of the pool of protein in the sea.
10.2307/2484120|Bupleurum americanum Coulter & Rose has been collected in an isolated locale on the Elkhorn Range of the Blue Mountains, Baker County, Oregon. This observation represents a considerable range extension for B. americanum and is the first record of the species in Oregon.
10.2307/2484607|Virgin forests in Savage Gulf, a gorge on the westfacing escarpment of the Cumberland Plateau, Grundy County, Tennessee, were sampled by the random pairs method and compared with others previously described by Braun (1950) and Caplenor (1965). In descending order of importance, co-dominants of the canopy layer on the north-facing slope were Tilia heterophylla, Tsuga canadensis, Acer saccharum, Liriodendron tulipifera, and Aesculus octandra and in the understory, Acer saccharum, Cornus florida, Fagus grandifolia, Tsuga canadensis, Tilia heterophylla and Aesculus octandra. This forest more closely resembles Braun's (1950) typical Mixed Mesophytic Forest of the Cumberland Mountains than it does adjacent mixed mesophytic stands. Dominants of the overstory on the south-facing slope were Quercus prinus, Carya tomentosa, Quercus rubra, Liriodendron tulipifera and Quercus alba, with understory co-dominants of Cornus florida, Cercis canadensis and Carya tomentosa. This forest is best considered to be an Oak-Hickory-Tuliptree expression of the Mixed Mesophytic forest type.
10.2307/2484469|Cover and frequency of forest herbs and shrubs were measured in permanent plots of a mature mixed-oak woods (Hutcheson Memorial Forest, New Jersey). Plots previously measured in 1950 and 1969 were remeasured in 1979. During this 30-year period, herb layer cover increased seven fold with all predominant species increasing in cover and frequency. Meanwhile herb species diversity declined, with rare herbs decreasing or disappearing. In contrast, shrub layer cover remained about constant, and shrub diversity increased. A major increase in vine cover occurred in both the herb and shrub layers. These changes correlate with an increase in understory light intensity during the 30-year period. Therefore, herb and shrub layer changes are dramatic in this mature uncut forest, indicating that relatively stable or climax communities may have highly dynamic subcommunities.
10.2307/2996976|Further work in the Lake Champlain Valley of Vermont and New York resulted in 24 new stations for rare native or introduced taxa. Five species are additions to the flora of Vermont: Artemisia ludoviciana, Cerastium tomentosum, Digitalis grandiflora, Gagea fistulosa, and Pimpinella saxifraga. Trisetum melicoides is a new state record for New York. Local northern range extensions are reported for Digitalis grandiflora, Gagea fistulosa, Paronychia canadensis, and Pimpinella saxifraga.
10.2307/2484798|Certain aspects of the development of endoparasitic, zoosporic fungi are reviewed, with special attention to holocarpic, monocentric forms which develop in the cytoplasm of other fungi or of algae or of higher plants. The usefulness of bifungal (mycoparasitic) systems for the study of obligate intracellular parasitism is emphasized. Development of the parasites is seen as a sequence of successful parasite-host interactions. An attempt is made to point out the factors or activities of host origin or of parasite origin which are responsible for the following interactions: (i) Recognition of the host, via (1) attraction of parasite zoospores, or (2) contact of the zoospores with the host surface, which stimulates their attachment, encystment, and germination. (ii) Penetration of the parasite protoplast into the host cytoplasm; this process includes (1) perforation of the host wall, as well as its localized growth (apposition), (2) proliferation and secretory activities of the host plasmalemma, and (3) additional activities of the parasite, which lead to injection of its protoplast into the host. (iii) Intracellular development and maturation of the parasite. Strict host-parasite coordination which characterizes obligate intracellular parasitism is discussed, as is the role of such step-by-step coordination in delimiting the host range of the parasite.
10.2307/2996038|The buried seed pool was eliminated from selected plots in a recently plowed goldenrod field by steam sterilization in order to determine the importance of stored seed in the early stages of old field succession. Recolonization by plants was slow despite the close proximity of abundant seed sources in the surrounding goldenrod field. Midway through the second growing season the mean per cent cover of plants in the sterilized plots was 12% (6 SD) compared to 121% (10) in the control plots. The results underscore the importance of both the buried seed pool and the population of perennial plants that may survive tillage and herbicide spraying in determining the dominant plants early in old field successions.
10.2307/2484784|Subtle existing differences in topography and man-induced changes in soil salinity after diking a Spartina patens salt marsh are correlated with an increase in the abundance of Solidago sempervirens.
10.2307/2484417|The decomposition of Potamogeton diversifolius Raf. was monitored for loss of dry weight, calcium, iron, magnesium, manganese, potassium, sodium, and zinc in the field and in the laboratory at 11 C
10.2307/2482529|Two morphological mutants of Sordaria brevicollis Olive and Fantini, one with orange pigmentation (o) and a second showing restricted growth (r), were isolated and described. Both mutant loci proved to be linked to the mating type locus, and an analysis of dihybrid crosses showed that r and o were 1.72 and 18.5 crossover units, respectively, from the mating type locus and 20.4 units from each other, r being proximal to o. Out of 146 asci showing apparent second division segregation at the mating type locus, 138 were asymmetrical and 8 symmetrical. The excess of the former is attributed to a high degree of spindle overlap in the second meiotic division. The effect of spindle overlap and the difficulty it creates in the mapping of centromere distances is discussed. A tentative estimate of the distance of the mating type locus from the centromere (2.7 units) and of the frequency of spindle overlap is made on the basis of the number of symmetrical M
10.2307/2996969|Phenotypic sex ratios and estimates of coning frequencies of seven populations of the Western Australian cycad Macrozamia riedlei (Fisch. ex Gaud.) C. A. Gardner have been published based on fieldwork conducted in 1983. These populations, plus two additional ones, were sampled five years later for the same traits. In addition, size classes were determined for known males, females, and plants of unknown sex, cone numbers of males and females with 1988 cones were determined, and insects associated with male cones shedding pollen were collected and identified. Of the five populations with males and females having 1983 cones, three had no individuals of either sex with 1988 cones, one had males but no females with 1988 cones, and one had males and females with 1988 cones. Two additional populations with no 1983 cones also had no 1988 cones, although these had evidence of very low levels of cone production in the intervening period. One population with a male-biased phenotypic sex ratio in 1983 had a 1:1 male : female sex ratio in 1988; two populations not sampled in 1983 had a male bias and a 1:1 phenotypic sex ratio, respectively. For the two sampling periods, a male bias prevails. Considerable interpopulation differences were present in average leaf numbers of plants with 1988 cones. Males and females were of equal size within all populations but one, where females had twice the leaf number of males. Plants with cones were larger than plants lacking cones. Cone numbers produced by males equaled those of females except in two populations, where males produced more cones than females. For males, there was no correlation between leaf number and cone number, and in all samples but one this was true for females. In one population of females, leaf number increased with cone number. The two studies support earlier suggestions that males and females of M. riedlei under natural conditions rarely produce cones in successive years, and that males produce cones more frequently than females. The absence of 1988 cones in some populations is attributed to competition and shading effects, but may also be related to the marginal conditions under which these populations grow. Five appears to stimulate cone production by reducing competition and increasing nitrogen fixation by root-inhabiting Cyanobacteria. The percentage of plants judged to be mature in various populations ranged from 45 to 90 percent. Four species of Coleoptera, two of which are weevils, were collected from male cones shedding pollen, suggesting that insects may play a role in the pollination of this cycad.
10.2307/2483595|Chromosome numbers are reported for 152 collections which represent 77 species belonging to 39 genera. Eight of these genera: Calamochloa, Chaboissaea, Fourniera, Jouvea, Reederochloa, Scleropogon, Setariopsis, and Zeugites are here examined cytologically for the first time. Counts for the following 36 species: Acroceras oryzoides, Aegopogon cenchroides, Bouteloua elata, B. eriostachya, Brachiaria plantaginea, Calamochloa filifolia, Chaboissaea ligulata, Digitaria argillacea, D. argyrostachya, D. diversiflora, Eriochloa lemmoni, Fourniera mexicana, Jouvea pilosa, J. straminea, Muhlenbergia depauperata, M. distans, M. diversiglumis, M. glauca, M. macrotis, M. plumbea, M. pubigluma, M. reederorum, M. villiflora, M. villosa, M. virescens, Panicum cupreum, P. molle, Paspalum botteri, P. clavuliferum, P. convexum, Reederochloa eludens, Scleropogon brevifolius, Setaria liebmanni, Setariopsis auriculata, Sporobolus nealleyi, and Zeugites capillaris are new for these taxa. The records of 2n = 20 and 2n = 40 for Cathestecum erectum, 2n = ca. 72 for Distichlis spicata, 2n = 60 and 2n = 64 for Muhlenbergia emersleyi, 2n = 24 for M. gigantea, 2n = 20 for M. macroura, 2n = 20 for M. monticola, 2n = 40 for M. polycaulis, 2n = 46 and 2n = ca. 60 for M. pubescens, 2n = ca. 70 and 2n = ca. 72 for M. repens, 2n = 20 for Schedonnardus paniculatus, and 2n = 46 for Stipa lepida are different from previously published reports for these species. The chromosomal information is discussed in relation to taxonomic problems when appropriate. The new combination, Bouteloua eriostachya, based upon B. eriopoda var. eriostachya Swallen, is proposed.
10.2307/2996763|A new species, Ceratostema rauhii Luteyn, from northern Peru is described, discussed, and illustrated, bringing to three the number of species of Ceratostema known from that country.
10.2307/2483354|A systematic investigation of the three species comprising sect. Anathysana of the genus Coreopsis was carried out. Of these, C. insularis (Brandegee) Blake is quite distinct and presents few taxonomic problems. In contrast, C. cyclocarpa Blake and C. pinnatisecta Blake appear so similar on the basis of comparative morphology, chromosome number, and crossing relationships that they are better treated as varieties rather than as distinct species. The new combination is proposed. Slight but consistent differences in flavonoid chemistry occur between these latter two taxa.
10.2307/2484507|The effects of physiological aging of cultures, sporulation, cellular development, change of growth media, and temperature on protein profiles and zymograms are discussed. The use of electrophoretic data as taxonomic criteria in Neurospora is critically examined. The need for electrophoretic examination of more enzymes from more strains and of the relationship of extra- and intra-cellular enzymes is stressed.
10.2307/2483261|A conspicuously variable population of hybrid derivation was found growing in a natural and apparently undisturbed habitat. Examination of meiosis in a series of morphologically intermediate plants from this population indicated that all of them consistently formed 18 pairs of chromosomes with no meiotic irregularities. Most of the intermediates were highly fertile although some showed a reduced seed set and various amounts of bad pollen. In all instances, save one, the bad pollen came mostly from entire tetrads that failed to develop, indicating that neither chromosome nor gene segregation was involved. Chromosome rearrangement apparently has had no role in speciation. The primary barrier to hybridization is probably self-pollination, but this does not account for the general absence of progeny from occasional hybrids. The availability of suitable open habitats is probably limiting and the extreme localization of the variable population studied suggests that the site was temporarily open and available to hybrid derivatives when the population became established.
10.2307/2483457|The distribution of soils and woody vegetation is closely correlated in a 24-hectare prairie-grove remnant in Champaign County, Illinois. Although the site has been forested for an estimated 400 to 600 years, soil development has been retarded by excessive moisture conditions, and the soils on 71% of the area are morphologically identical to the Brunizem and Humic Gley soils developed under the original tall grass prairie. An overstory of dead elm (predominantly Ulmus americana), Celtis occidentalis, and Quercus macrocarpa, along with a heavy shrub cover of Lindera benzoin, Euonymus atropurpureus and Xanthoxylum americanum occurs in low physiographic locations on Humic Gley soils. Acer saccharum, Q. rubra, C. occidentalis, U. rubra, and Aesculus glabra dominate a mixed hardwood complex in relatively flat physiographic areas in which Brunizem soils persist. Soils transitional between Brunizem and Gray-Brown Podzolic soils have developed in areas of greatest topographic relief. Acer saccharum dominates these transitional sites, along with Q. rubra, Tilia americana, and C. occidentalis. Species distribution and soil pattern are similarly related to a physiographically based gradient from hydromesic conditions in low-lying and depressional areas to mesic conditions in areas of greatest topographic relief.
10.2307/2996448|The effects of different seedbeds on western larch (Larixoccidentalis Nutt.) germination and seedling mortality were assessed in a grand fir/ninebark (Abies grandis ((Dougl. ex. D.Don) Lindl.))/(Physocarpus malvaceus((Greene) Kuntze)) habitat type in northern Idaho, U.S.A. Two plots were established on each of four sites, and 150 western larch seeds (66% viable) were distributed on each of 16 randomly applied seedbed modification combinations (burned or mechanical scarified, mineral soil or duff, shaded or non-shaded, caged or non-caged for protection from predation). Germination percentages and seedling development were significantly greater (4-10 times) on caged units than on uncaged units by midJuly. Shading did not significantly affect germination percentage or initial seedling establishment. No significant differences occurred in germination or initial seedling establishment between burned and unburned treatments. Mortality of seedlings, most likely caused by a month-long dry period with high temperatures, resulted in no significant differences in seedling numbers among treatments by mid-August the first year after seed dispersal. On the dry end of this species' range, there does not appear to be any difference in seedling survival from seedbed modification.
10.2307/2483675|Data were collected on 41 well-drained forest stands of diverse habitat on gneiss substratum in northern New Jersey. The data were subjected to a continuum analysis based on a combination of quantitative data and degree of species association. Stands became arranged along environmental gradients with reasonably good correlations. Tree, sapling and seedling data treated in the same way indicate almost invariably a strong successional trend toward dominance of the more tolerant northern hardwoods. Three species groups were found to be correlated with site characteristics of the area. The hemlock-northern hardwoods, making up 17% of the vegetation in terms of total importance values of all species in all stands, is related to low elevation and steep slopes. The Piedmont section group, with a contribution of 33%, is related to less steep slopes and a relatively deep top-soil but is not strongly correlated with elevation. The Pennsylvania Appalachian group makes up 14% of the total and is more important at high elevations and in the more sandy top-soils. The remaining 36% importance value was contributed by species not included in these groups. Based on correlations between species, four groups of species are proposed: 1) Quercus prinus and Q. coccinea as one, 2) those species predominant in much of the forest known as the "oak-hickory forest," 3) the northern hardwood species and 4) Tsuga canadensis which stands by itself showing no positive correlation with any other species.
10.2307/2997108|This study investigated the requirements for germination and flowering of Liatris squarrosa (L.) Michx. var. hirsuta (Rydb.) Gaiser, a taxon of prairies, dry sandy soil, rock ledges, dry open woods and glades in the eastern and central United States. Seeds were dormant at maturity, and only a small percentage of them germinated after 12 weeks of dry storage in the laboratory. However, stratification of the seeds at 5C was very effective in overcoming dormancy. An increase in length of the stratification period stimulated seed germination at daily thermoperiods of 15/6, 20/10, 25/15, 30/15 and 35/20C in light and darkness. Seeds stratified in light for 12 weeks and incubated in light germinated to 89-97% at all thermoperiods except 15/6C. Seeds sown on soil in a nonheated greenhouse in October germinated in late March and early April, when mean maximum and minimum daily temperatures were 18-20 and 7-8C, respectively. In the nonheated greenhouse, 39% of the plants started from seeds in April 1979 flowered in July and August 1980, and 94% flowered in 1981. Vernalization was required for flowering, but plants flowered under both long and short (interrupted) nights in growth chambers.
10.2307/2483972|Although most species of Actinomeris were transferred to Verbesina prior to this century, two species of the eastern United States continued being treated variously in Actinomeris or Verbesina with the most recent trend favoring their inclusion in Verbesina. The two species are the tetraploid (n = 34) V. alternifolia (L.) Britton ex. Kearnery and the diploid (n = 17) V. walteri Shinners. In the present investigation V. walteri was crossed with the diploid species V. helianthoides Mich., V., aristata (Ell.) A. A. Heller and V. heterophylla (Chapman) A. Gray. F
10.2307/2484557|A study of allelopathic potential of four species and three soils from a New Jersey freshwater tidal marsh was made using four bioassay species. Ambrosia trifida leaf- and Peltandra virginica leaf- and petiole-extracts almost universally decreased germination and root growth of lettuce, radish, tomato, and cucumber. Ambrosia stem-extract inhibited growth but not germination. Bidens laevis leaf-extract was generally inhibitory, but Bidens stem-extract only inhibited germination and growth of lettuce. Typha latifolia leaf-extract was inhibitory to growth, and to radish germination at 24 hrs. Typha root- and rhizome-extracts were the least inhibitory. The marsh soils from cattail, ragweed, and mixed vegetation sites at 0 to 5 and 5 to 10 cm had no effect on germination of radish or cucumber. Cattail 0 to 5 cm soil-extract enhanced cucumber growth at 72 hr and radish growth at 48 hr. Of the bioassay species, lettuce was the most sensitive, radish and tomato somewhat less sensitive, and cucumber the least sensitive.
10.2307/2483411|Large quantities of both organic and inorganic metabolites may be leached from a great diversity of plants by rain, dew, and mist. The leaching of inorganic cations apparently involves diffusion and exchange reactions with the leaching solutions on the leaf surface. Metabolites leached from one plant can be redistributed to other plants. This recycling has important implications as in plant nutrition, adaptation, distribution, and susceptibility to disease.
10.2307/2483988|Leaves, vegetative shoots and nodes of Crossosoma bigelovii Wats. and C. californicum Nutt. were examined. Unusual masses of acicular crystals were found throughout. The leaf mesophyll is variable in arrangement of mesophyll, both dorsiventral and isobilateral leaves occurring. The node can be either unilacunar one-trace or trilacunar three-trace. A transitional type of node also occurs. Certain morphological features are related to the xeric habitat and therefore are of little value in assessing affinities; others suggest a relationship with Rosaceae or Dilleniaceae.
10.2307/2996191|A simple method for graphically depicting species composition and relative importance according to life form was developed for woody vegetation in northwestern Vermont. This physiognomic technique is not based upon complicated symbolic formulas, nor does it require the precision of profile diagrams. It provides a means for quickly visualizing and comparing shrub or tree dominated sites and evaluating potential effects of disturbances.
10.2307/2484527|Pad temperatures of Opuntia compressa (Salisb.) Macbr. were measured in the field with copper-constantan thermocouples and a null potentiometer. Measurements were made during portions of 5 days in June and July 1971. During periods of intense solar radiation pad temperatures were as much as 10-13
10.2307/2481796|Dr. A. D. Houghton made a hybrid some years ago in California of Kalanchoe Daigremontiana (n = 17, 2n 34) and of K. verticillata (2n = 68) that is triploid (2n = 51) and has intermediate characters. That hybrid is in the American horticultural trade.Kalanchoe is a promising genus for interspecific hybridizing.
10.2307/2996066|The effects of pH and phosphate concentration on the growth of Paspalum plicatulum Michx. (brownseed paspalum) and Schizachyrium scoparium (Michx.) Nash (little bluestem), two co-occurring C
10.2307/2995999|Subalpine ridges in the Mahoosuc Range, western Maine, support distinctive heathland communities that contrast with other subalpine ridges in the region. The line-intercept method was employed to sample heathland vegetation on seven ridges. One-meter segments were classified into discrete communities using cluster analysis, and the relationship of these communities to a simple drainage gradient was analyzed. The five non-forest community types were distributed along the soil drainage gradient, from best to most poorlydrained sites, as follows: Empetrum nigrum shrubland > Kalmia angustifolia shrubland - Vaccinium angustifolium/Cladonia lichen phase > K angustifolia shrubland - Ledum groenlandicum/Chamaedaphne calyculata phase > Sphagnum peatland - Rubus chamaemorus/C calyculata phase > Sphagnum peatland - Scirpus cespitosus/V oxycoccus phase The flat or concave topography on the Mahoosuc ridges, combined with low evaporative demand and cold temperatures, probably has favored the development of the bog communities which may have restricted the invasion of closed forest and favored the establishment of Kalmia shrublands on the uplands.
10.2307/2484629|The common rabbitbrushes of Ash Meadows, Nye County, Nevada, are considered an interspecific hybrid swarm that resulted from C. nauseosus ssp. mohavensis x C. n. ssp. hololeucus. The area is marginal to the geographic ranges of both subspecies, although neither is found there. The above intraspecific hybrid of C. nauseosus is one of the parents of a second, interspecific hybrid in Ash Meadows with C. albidus as the other parent. That interspecific hybridization represents the first known, naturally-occurring intersectional cross in the genus. Although these presumed hybridizations have not been confirmed experimentally, sufficient circumstantial evidence is presented from morphology, anatomy, and field observations to justify declaring their hybridity and probable derivation. Extent and significance of hybridization in Chrysothamnus are reviewed.
10.2307/2484690|Exploratory artificial freezing trials using 10-day and 10-week-old seedlings of woody species from a very wide range of climates are described. Ten-day-old seedlings are surprisingly frost resistant, in some cases more so than 10-week-old seedlings of the same species; in addition, their responses to low temperatures are very uniform, regardless of the climate at the seed source. In contrast, 10-week-old seedlings from different populations show a wide range of frost resistance strongly correlated with climatic conditions at the seed source. Differential seedling frost resistance may be an important factor determining the occurrence of Eucalyptus sieberi, E. obliqua and E. regnans on different topography in a restricted area, and in limiting the extension of "warm elements" like E. sieberi and E. gummifera into colder areas. Intraspecific differentiation in frost resistance is shown in E. sieberi. It is suggested that consecutive treatments of -2, -3, -4 and -5
10.2307/2483312|The development of pollen in P. nebulosa is unlike that reported for the majority of flowering plants. Microspores are produced at a very early stage of floral development. Trinucleate unicellular pollen cells are formed within the tapetal tissue by the precocious division of the generative nucleus, and some pollen produce abortive tubes within the anther. Normal pollen tube growth occurs on stigmas. The plant is fertile and produces viable seeds. P. nebulosa is tetraploid with n = 18.
10.2307/2481889|The close relationship between F. retusa L. and F. nitida Thunb. was not recognized in botanical literature until almost one hundred years after their publication. For more than 50 years after the latter was published by Miquel as a variety of the former no legal varietal name was given to distinguish the type of F. retusa. Of the two varieties nitida seems to be the commoner and the more widely distributed, as well as the more distinctive. It is differentiated from var. typica by its leaves with their cuneate base and short blunt acumen, and also by the secondary trunks produced from its aerial roots. The latter aid in its propagation, and so in its artificial distribution. Both varieties are found in India, Malaya, south China, and the islands of the south-western Pacific Ocean; but var. typica seems to have a wider natural distribution in peninsular India, and var. nitida is much more prominent in Java. F. retusa sometimes is confused with another common East Indian fig-tree, F. benjamina L., which , however, is differentiated from it by its habit and leaves. The branches of F. benjamina droop, and the scanty aerial roots do not form trunks. The leaves have a broad base, an apex with a triangular and sometimes twisted acumen about 1 cm. long, inconspicuous basal veins, and numerous fine, parallel, lateral veins From the many synonyms of F. retusa those belonging to each variety have been selected, evaluated and segregated, usually with the help of such authorities as Miquel, King, and Warburg. Some synonyms have been rejected, and some homonyms have been removed from the host of names associated with the species. New descriptions from living trees of var. nitida in Florida and from texts and herbarium specimens of both varieties have been made.
10.2307/2483229|The first-known finding of Characeae in Samoa is of Nitella furcata var. sieberi (A. Br.) Wood, comb. nov., on Upolu, Western Samoa. This is the easternmost record of Characeae in the central South Pacific. The species is known from Fiji, as well as from Australia, Indonesia, and Asia, to the west.
10.2307/2997093|The study area is at the northwestern extent of the range of pitch pine. The great variety of Quercus, Pinus, and Ilex species, characteristic of pitch pine communities of New Jersey and Long Island are missing from these sites but are replaced by a number of mesic site species. In central and western New York, pitch pine is found either on deep glacial deltaic sands or on shallow stony soils of sandstone, siltstone or shale origin. Detrended correspondence analysis separated plots on sandy sites from those on stony sites. Sandy sites had no Quercus alba and very little Pinus strobus, although both species are widely encountered on stony sites. Two-way indicator species analysis separated plots according to site type and according to herb and shrub layer. Herb and shrub layer types were: ericaceous, sparsely ericaceous, very sparse herb and shrub cover, mesic species. Pine barrens were found on disturbed sites and at locations other than the barrens of pre-settlement times. With less disturbance, pitch pine will decline in importance and be replaced by forests composed of more mesic species.
10.2307/2996185|Two wild populations of Cichorium intybus (Compositae) were examined to determine if self-compatible plants occur in nature and, if present, to measure the extent to which self compatibility (SC) is expressed. Approximately 70% of the individuals tested were found to produce at least some seeds in response to self pollination. The expression of the trait, which varies markedly from day to day, does not appear to be influenced by ambient temperature, relative humidity, or light intensity measured at the time of pollination. Likewise, plant age appears to have no effect on the fluctuations in SC. A histological analysis of pollen tube growth, embryogeny, and endosperm development indicates that seeds produced in self-pollinated capitula are amphimictic (i.e., derived by normal sexual reproduction) and not agamospermic as other studies have suggested. Corroborating evidence for the occurrence of amphimixis is the outcome of an investigation of seed production in unpollinated capitula; no seeds were formed in heads that were not pollinated. The overall similarity in the expression of SC in wild plants and cultivated strains suggests that facultative inbreeding is part of the normal reproductive system of Cichorium intybus and not merely a transient abnormality.
10.2307/2484187|Populations of Agrostis stolonifera and Paronychia fastigiata in the vicinity of an abandoned New Jersey copper mine were examined with respect to the nature (phenotypic plasticity or population differentiation) of their apparent tolerance to high amounts of soil copper. Field studies were first undertaken to determine the soil characteristics of the contaminated and uncontaminated areas and to determine the cover and frequency of the different species in relation to these soil factors. Copper (Cu) was found to be the only significant variable among these soils, and the two study species were most important where the amount of soil Cu ranged between 64 and 304 ppm. Greenhouse experiments comparing responses of seed and vegetative material collected from "Cu populations" and "non-Cu populations" to soils from the mining site containing levels of Cu ranging from 98 to 1024 ppm indicated a striking difference between the two species. Agrostis stolonifera not only demonstrated a greater degree of tolerance but also showed population differentiation. In responses to increasing levels of Cu, the Cu population was superior in height and shoot weight of clonal materials, seedling survival and height, and ability of rhizomes and roots to immobilize Cu. Differences in tolerance between Cu and non-Cu populations of Paronychia fastigiata were not evident.
10.2307/2483821|A study was made of the fine structure of cytological effects induced by digitonin in Allium sativum root tips. Digitonin, like colchicine, suppressed the spindle. However, a functional phragmoplast and the subsequent cell wall were formed during mitosis. The phragmoplast contained all fine structural elements involved in normal phragmoplast formation, but it formed in the nuclear region. During its development, the phragmoplast could become partially or completely trapped by the restituting nucleus. When phragmoplast components were completely trapped inside the nucleus, no cell plate formed. The trapped components occurred as discrete membrane-limited aggregations within the nucleus. Some of these lamellar and vesicular elements could be related to early but arrested stages of phragmoplast development. When the elements were partially captured, cytoplasmic contact was maintained and the cell plate was initiated near the nucleus and remained in a nuclear invagination. In subsequent stages, cells displayed branched cell walls throughout the cytoplasm. At least one branch remained in a nuclear indentation and one or several branches was fused with the lateral cell wall. Many abnormal cell walls contained dense inclusions. A membrane, assumed to be the plasma membrane, occurred on the wall surfaces. The profiles ultimately establishing the phragmoplast in the nuclear area probably were derived from the ruptured nuclear envelope.
10.2307/2484441|Leaf extracts of mustard and barley, sterilized by filtering through a Seitz filter as well as by autoclaving with the medium, considerably stimulated the growth of all the test saprophytic and pathogenic fungi. However, the autoclaved extract was noted to be most effective. Alternaria brassicae and Nigrospora oryzae exhibited the maximum growth stimulation when treated with both types of the leaf extracts of mustard and barley respectively.
10.2307/2483351|Populations of Dodecatheon amethystinum Fassett growing on limestone bluffs over-looking the Mississippi River at Dubuque, Iowa and the Wisconsin River at its confluence with the Mississippi River were observed for insect behavior on the flowers. Individuals of 6 species of bumblebee (Bombus Latr.) were the only effective pollinators as they foraged for pollen on the nectarless flowers in the same manner as previously described for D. meadia L. Of 116 insects captured on the flowers, 42 had corbicular pollen loads 39 of which contained Dodecatheon pollen alone (16 cases) or mixed with one or two foreign pollen types (26 cases). Insect exclosures on eleven plants virtually eliminated fruiting thus indicating absence of significant self-pollination and dependence on bumblebee pollen vectors. Anthecological evidence from this study suggests that pollinator behavioral isolation is not a major contributor to the present ecological isolation of D. amethystinum.
10.2307/2484181|Eleven papaveraceous genera indigenous to the northeastern United States and Canada show the following pollen morphology: periporate (3), pericolpate (3), tricolpate (4), and both tricolpate and syncolpate (1). The three subfamilies of the Papaveraceae, the Papaveroideae, Fumarioideae, and Hypecoideae, are shown to be eurypalynous. A comparison is made between the use of glycerin gelatin and of silicone oil as mounting media.
10.2307/2484538|The seed coat of three species of Corallocarpus, one of Kedrostis, and two of Ibervillea were examined. Anatropous, bitegminal and crassinucellar ovules are horizontally oriented. The outer integument alone forms the seed coat, the inner degenerates. On periclinal divisions, the outer epidermis of the outer integument forms two layers, e and e', along major faces, and three-e, e'' and e', along the edges and chalaza. The seed coat comprises four zones in the former region and five i.e. epidermis, multilayered hypodermis, sclerenchymatous layer, aerenchyma and inner zone, in the latter. The hypodermis zone is lacking along the major faces. Only seeds of C. boehmii have a 9 to 11-layered hypodermis throughout. Mature seeds are ovate, tumid, marginate and smooth or sculptured. In all the investigated species except C. boehmii, the epidermis is composed of upright and thick-walled cells and the sclerenchymatous layer of osteosclereids. In C. boehmii the epidermal cells are small, squarish and thin-walled, and astrosclereids form the sclerenchymatous layer. The affinity of C. bochmii to the other species of Corallocarpus is questioned.
10.2307/2996345|The effective concentrations of the heavy metals; cadmium, copper, lead, and zinc which reduced the population growth of the diatom Navicula incerta by 50% after 96 hrs. of exposure EC<sub>50</sub> were determined; the respective values were 26.8 M, 164.5 M, 52.9 M and 154.5 M. Cadmium is the most toxic of the four metals followed by lead, with copper and zinc being almost an order of magnitude less toxic. The number of days per division were calculated for each metal concentration tested. The trend which was found for all metals tested is that the number of days per division increases with increasing metal concentration. The value of this kind of data to environmental impact assessment studies is discussed.
10.2307/2484284|The percentage of species having leaves with entire margins was determined at 38 sample sites in Costa Rica The location of each sample site was plotted on Holdridge's (1967) life zone chart, using the mean annual biotemperature, mean annual precipitation, and potential evapotranspiration ratio characteristic for that site. An attempt was made to correlate the percentage of species having leaves with entire margins with one, two, or all three of these climatic variables. No correlation could be found. The percentage of species having leaves with entire margins at a fossil locality has been used by angiosperm paleobotanists to estimate paleoclimate. The lack of correlation found in Costa Rica suggests that a better correlation between leaf margin type and climate should be found before this characteristic is used to estimate paleoclimate.
10.2307/2484157|Theories of community structure and diversity have largely been developed by animal ecologists. Because of this, focus has been upon classes of interaction involving mobility; among them food choice, foraging behavior, and time and location of foraging activity. Competitive interactions among species for limiting resources in the environment appear central to the regulation of animal community structure. Recently, plant biologists have sought to apply concepts of niche relationships and species diversity to the study of plant community structure. While in some circumstances, competition for access to limiting habitat sites (rather than resources, per se) appears important to the regulation of plant community structure, one frequently observes patterns which suggest that competition among species for appropriate habitats does not occur with great intensity. Competition may be less important either because of slow growth rates relative to the life spans of appropriate habitats, or because of failure to fully saturate habitats with propagules because of limited dispersal. Bryological studies have made important contributions to the development of our current understanding of the means by which plant community structure is regulated.
10.2307/2996278|Forty-eight old-fields (15 years old) were examined in terms of species diversity. The mean number of species was initially low following field abandonment; increased rapidly for 5-6 years; then the number decreased. Variability was sufficiently large that successive years exhibited no significant differences, but cumulative differences did occur. The information content diversity was quite variable, its pattern of change closely coupled with the shift in life form dominance. When the life span of the dominant species was short (annuals), diversity reached a maximum one year then declined the next. With a shift to perennial forbs and then perennial grasses, diversity increased to a maximum the first year of the life form dominance then declined over the next couple of years, then increased again. These data are briefly discussed in relation to some current succession theory.
10.2307/2482335|The embryology of Swertia carolinensis, a gentian, is described and compared with that of other species and genera in the family. 2. A nutritive tissue of peculiar origin, apparently sterile, invades the microsporangial cavity and aids the regular tapetum during the development of the microspores. 3. The megagametophyte is of the monosporic normal type, involving five successive divisions of the megaspore mother cell before formation of the female gamete. It is much elongated at maturity and often consists of more than three weakly developed antipodals. 4. An integumentary tapetum is not formed although all but the epidermis of the single integument is absorbed during ovule development. 5. Entrance of the pollen tube is porogamoug. Double fertilization occurs, and the primary endosperm nucleus so formed remains quiescent while syngamy proceeds within the egg cell. 6. The formation of a free nuclear endosperm always precedes that of embryo development.
10.2307/2484428|Two perennial species of wild geranium (Geranium nervosum Rydb. and G. richardsonii Fisch. and Trautv. [Geraniaceae] which grow throughout the mountainous regions of western North America were studied to examine the factors influencing the life stage development and the ecological isolation of these two morphologically similar species. Seeds which were produced in the fall reached maximum germination by January for G. nervosum and by March for G. richardsonii. Seeds did not remain viable for more than one winter. Field experiments, coupled with laboratory water stress studies, indicated that G. nervosum seedlings were able to survive in drier environments due to their tap root system. The fibrous root system of G. richardsonii did not extend deep enough in the soil to reach more favorable water potentials. Pollinators distinguish between the Geranium species, thus providing a second isolation mechanism. Hybrids produced from hand crossing did not survive after germination.
10.2307/2996410|Patterns of radial growth were used to reconstruct the history of suppression and release during canopy recruitment of Acer saccharum Marsh in old-growth northern hardwood forests of the Adirondack Mountains of New York In a stand that had been selectively logged 60-80 years ago, only 20 per cent of canopy trees between 20-40 cm DBH had undergone periods of suppression prior to canopy recruitment However, in 2 unlogged stands, all of the sampled trees had undergone from 1 to 5 definable episodes of suppression prior to eventual recruitment at an average age of 110-126 years The mean lengths of periods of suppression (22-28 years in the two unlogged stands), combined with the mean numbers of periods of suppression in each core (2.9-3.1 per tree) indicate that saplings of Acer saccharum responded to canopy openings created by the death of neighboring trees before eventually replacing an individual directly overhead The ability to withstand suppression appears to be an essential trait for a life history that allows Acer saccharum to exploit the relatively short-lived pulses of resources created by small canopy openings.
10.2307/2483212|1. Four species of Chlamydomonas, C. eugametos Moewus, C. chlamydogama Bold, C. reinhardti Dangeard and C. moewusii Gerloff, were studied cytologically and compared. Particular study was devoted to mitosis and meiosis. These processes proved to be essentially similar in all 4 species and to follow the classical patterns observed among plants. No dissimilarities were noted in mitosis as it occurs in these organisms and the pattern which has been described for other species of Chlamydomonas by earlier investigators. 2. The haploid chromosome number was found to be 8 for all 4 species; this constitutes a much lower count than those reported by recent workers for C. eugametos, C. reinhardti and C. moewusii. 3. It was found that when vegetative cells of C. eugametos and C. moewusii are grown at a light intensity of 800 foot-candles, temporary polyploidy is exhibited by certain cells. Somatic reduction, the exact mechanism of which was not determined, eventually results independently of light.
10.2307/2483684|Anatomical investigation of leaf sheath ontogeny reveals that the sheath develops from the leaf base in two varieties of Ophioglossum vulgatum, var. pycnostichum and var. pseudopodum, and in O. engelmannii. Each sheath develops from initials on the periphery of the apical meristem and surrounds the next youngest leaf primordium in the bud. The apical bud is composed of 4-5 primordia with basally confluent sheaths; only during late ontogeny does the sheath assume a conical shape. Both varieties of O. vulgatum possess sheaths during the ontogeny of each leaf. The taxonomic distinction between these taxa must be based on the persistence of the sheath in var. pycnostichum and its loss in var. pseudopodum.
10.2307/2482247|1. The vegetation in the mountains above Gomez Farias, Tamaulipas, Mexico, consists of "temperate" species (Fagus mexicana, Acer Skutchii, Liquidambar styraciflua, and others) mixed with "tropical" species (Trichilia havanensis, Turpinia pinnata, Bocconia arborea, Chamaedorea sp., Eugenia sp. and others). 2. Reported for the first time from Mexico are: Hamamelis virginiana, Rhamnus caroliniana, Rhus canadensis, Laportea canadensis and certain mosses, lichens and fungi.
10.2307/2483402|Four species of ascomycetes have been collected recently from marine habitats in Nahant, Mass. and Durham, N.H. Data relative to geographic distribution and morphology have been augmented for these plants. Sphaerulina pedicelata Johnson is reported for the first time in New England.
10.2307/2484757|The accumulation of factors for increased condensation of the cob, and their association with reduced shattering of the rachis during the preagricultural process of seed gathering followed by disruptive selection between man and nature, were basic to the evolutionary emergence of maize. This also requires that present-day teosinte, which developed under a sympatric relationship with maize, had to undergo a process of coevolution in order to protect its system of natural seed dispersal. The ultimate archaeological proof of a transformation from teosinte to maize is still lacking, but what experimental evidence is available supports it. The relatively simple floral changes in a domestic transformation from teosinte to maize would not be expected to alter significantly the cytological or chemical tests of their evolutionary distance. Conversely, in certain other species, morphological similarity masks gross differences in cytological and physiological measures of evolutionary distance. The problem is to determine which tests involve the most conservative criteria.
10.2307/2483369|A comparison was made between the morphological and physiological characteristics of the two distinct regions comprising the juice vesicles (sac plus stalk) of mature Eureka variety lemon fruits before and after inoculation in vitro. Although morphologically a single unit, the sac and stalk of the mature vesicle show distinct differences in vascularization and in cell vacuolar contents, the cell sap from the sac being significantly more acid than the sap from the stalk. The marked difference in cell sap acidity is primarily a result of the accumulation of large amounts of citric acid in the sac cells, whereas this accumulation does not occur in the stalk or other regions of the fruit. Differences between the pH of the cell sap of stalk cells growing in vitro and the sac cells in vivo remain apparently unchanged. Evidence is presented which indicates that this difference in citric acid accumulation has a direct effect upon the growth potentialities of the sac and stalk in vitro, the stalk producing callus growth, the sac not doing so under the same conditions.
10.2307/2484079|Digger pine is a low elevational 3-needled species, replaced abruptly altitudinally by Ponderosa pine, another 3-needled species. The rates of seedling and sapling establishment and canopy tree density are greatest for Digger pine at the upper edge of its altitudinal distribution. In contrast Ponderosa pine attains its greatest density in the center of its altitudinal distribution. Seedlings and saplings of Ponderosa pine have a greater but more variable growth rate, have more stomates per mm of needle, and occupy wetter microsites at the zone of interface with Digger pine. We suggest that Ponderosa pine is limited in its altitudinal distribution by its physiological tolerance of climatic factors and that Digger pine is limited at the upper edge of its altitudinal range by interspecific competition with Ponderosa pine.
10.2307/2483916|A genetic study of various bracteole characters in an interspecific cross between Gossypium hirsutum and G. tomentosum showed that: (1) the two species differ by at least several pairs of genes for each character; (2) considerable dominance was exhibited by one parent or the other for each character; (3) various degrees of genetic association occur between the different bracteole characters; (4) four marker genes segregate independently of the genes controlling the bracteole characters.
10.2307/2484667|New records of 43 species of lichens of mostly New York State from a collection of Edmond Bronk Southwick made between 1896 and 1902.
10.2307/2484397|In recent years, some ecologists have questioned the applicability of the succession concept to the New Jersey Pine Barrens. The data presented in this paper cover the 18-year changes in composition of one old-field pine stand and changes in three other pine stands monitored for 7 to 21 years. Reported changes validate the concept of directional and predictable succession in the Pine Barrens.
10.2307/2484237|Studies on a wide variety of fungi indicate that freeze-drying is a convenient and practical method of preserving field-collected fruiting bodies, cultures, and diseased specimens for class use. Freeze-dried specimens retain their natural shape and morphological and staining characteristics, although some bright colors fade slightly. Tests with students show that they find freeze-dried specimens more interesting and easier to work with than air-dried materials. This technique should also be useful for preserving herbarium specimens.
10.2307/2484831|Regeneration of shoot buds has been observed arising directly from the isolated segments of the bulb and floral peduncle of Amaryllis sp. in aseptic culture, although this was sporadic. However, organ re-differentiation leading to the development of complete plantlets could occur in large numbers in callus cultures established from the explanted tissues, following transfer of the tissue which had been grown on an auxin-containing medium to an auxin-omitted medium. All the plantlets were diploid.
10.2307/2484236|Ultrastructural study of meiotic spore mother cells of Polypodium aureum has shown the particulate nature of the mitochondrial plate of previous studies. Because of the difference in membrane and internal structure of these inclusions, reservations are held as to their homology with typical animal mitochondria. The developmental and physiological significance of this intense localization of inclusions has not as yet been made clear.
10.2307/2996747|Age structure, recruitment, salinity effects and tolerance to shading were examined for Pinus taeda (loblolly pine) to evaluate factors that may be contributing to a decline in abundance on Hog Island. Recruitment characteristics differed considerably when compared to Parramore Island, also within the Virginia barrier island system. Tree age structure was discontinuous, with almost no seedlings on Hog Island. Sixty percent of the trees were 30 to 50 years old and no trees were greater than 80 years in age, whereas the Parramore population ranged continuously from seedlings to trees over 100 years old. Laboratory experiments indicated that seeds survive at least four weeks in ocean-strength saltwater (30 ppt) when in cones and that seeds germinated when treated with diluted (10 ppt) saltwater, suggesting the possibility of colonization after oceanic transport. However, salinity did reduce stomatal conductance in seedlings, indicating salt intolerance. Seed germination and early seedling growth were reduced at low photon flux densities, typical of the shaded environment beneath dense vegetation on Hog Island. Population decline on Hog Island is probably the combined result of the scattered distribution of trees and low recruitment, in conjunction with the constraints of salinity and shading, as well as a variety of factors that contribute to the severe maritime island environment.
10.2307/2996068|We used a perturbation experiment coupled with demographic analysis to study competition between two short-lived taprooted perennial plants, the rare native Arabis fecunda and an aggressive exotic, Centaurea maculosa. Centaurea maculosa was removed from randomly selected plots at two sites where these species occur together and the fate of mapped A. fecunda individuals was followed in treatment and control plots for two years at one site and four years at the other. We analyzed differences between treatment and control in recruitment, survival, individual growth and fecundity separately. Estimates of equilibrium population growth () were obtained from matrix projection models to evaluate the overall competitive effects of C. maculosa on A. fecunda. Over the course of the study  was significantly higher in treatment plots compared to controls, indicating that C. maculosa had a negative effect on A. fecunda populations. Recruitment was significantly higher in treatment plots during the first two years of the study. Survival, growth and fecundity did not differ between treatment and control. These results indicate that the main effect of removing C. maculosa on populations of A. fecunda was enhanced recruitment resulting from increased seedling establishment. Competitive effects of C. maculosa on A. fecunda varied between sites and among years, indicating that long-term studies are required to fully understand the effects of competition on population dynamics.
10.2307/2483598|The effect of aqueous juglone solutions on the leaf respiration of Phaseolus vulgaris and Lycopersicon esculentum was determined. Concentrations of less than about 10
10.2307/2560354|The nitrification in variously aged spoil-soils areas, as compared to the unmined climax area, indicated a general trend of decreasing nitrification through successional stages; being lowest in the fresh spoil material and highest in the climax stand. The amount of NH
10.2307/2484010|The holotype of Arnoldella minuta was restudied and found to have the following features not previously described: a single-layered epidermis, outer cortex of the sparganum type, xylem cells with scalariform thickenings, terete appendage traces, one per appendage, and the appendages were probably opposite. A second specimen of Arnoldella minuta was collected by the writers from Junction City, Kentucky, and it revealed the following features: the adaxial surface of the axis had a groove, the "lysigenous" areas described by Read were ovoid cavities, and the sclerenchymatous strands in the outer cortex anastomosed. Comparison of Arnoldella with Kalymma showed it to fall within the range of variation of Kalymma and the writers made the appropriate nomenclatural transfer, Kalymma minuta (Read).
10.2307/2996388|The growth of eastern gamagrass and corn was compared under various nutrient conditions in sand-water cultures. The nutrient conditions included 1/4, 1/2, and full-strength nutrient solutions without additional nitrogen and each of these solutions to which additional nitrogen, equivalent to 112 ppm of N, were added. Growth of the two species was monitored by determining changes in leaf area during the experiment, and by measuring root and shoot biomass and leaf chlorophyll content at the end of the experiment. Both species displayed a positive response to increasing levels of inorganic nutrients. However, corn was more responsive to varied levels of inorganic nutrients than eastern gamagrass. The results suggest that gamagrass is adapted to stable ecosystems with moderate levels of available nitrogen, whereas corn is likely derived from a ruderal species adapted to pulsating levels of inorganic nutrients.
10.2307/2482669|1. The stem apices of Nicotiana tabacum L. of normally grown and those grown under irradiation from a Co
10.2307/2996022|A new species of Gloioderma, G rubrisporum, is described from the offshore reefs of North Carolina It differs from the 16 previously described species in having terete branches throughout and radial branching The new taxon is the third species of Gloioderma described from North Carolina and the Atlantic Ocean
10.2307/2996123|Seedling emergence and survival were followed in undisturbed vegetation and in the center and edge of experimental gaps in two midsuccessional old-field communities. The gaps were designed to simulate the effects of burrowing mammals. Emergence of most species and of all species combined was significantly higher in gaps than in undisturbed vegetation. Survival also tended to be higher in gaps, but was variable among replicates and rarely was significantly different between gaps and undisturbed vegetation. Ability to emerge or survive in undisturbed vegetation relative to gaps was not strongly related to mean seed mass of the species.
10.2307/2996302|Gaps in the dominant bryophyte cover on forest floor logs are produced by decay and animal activity. Differential exploitation of disturbance gaps promotes the coexistence of two epixylic moss species, Tetraphis pellucida and Dicranum flagellare. Dicranum flagellare predominates in small, dry gaps located on log tops while T. pellucida achieves greatest dominance on larger, moist gaps on log sides. Reciprocal transplant experiments demonstrate that adult survivorship does not explain the species distribution. Regeneration patterns are found to be responsible for the observed niche partitioning. Patterns of gap utilization are correlated with contrasting reproductive modes. Dicranum flagellare relies primarily on asexual propagules and T. pellucida utilizes a mixed sexual and asexual reproductive strategy. Propagule dispersal is distinctly patterned with regard to microtopography. Tetraphis pellucida gemmae occur primarily in gaps on the sides of logs, while propagules of D. flagellare predominate on log tops Colonization success by asexual propagules differs with substrate Gemmae of T. pellucida germinate well only under moist conditions, while D. flagellare can tolerate drier substrates. Relative abundance of the two species varies with availability of the appropriate regeneration niche, which is a function of the local disturbance regime. Rodent activity may both produce the gaps favored by D. flagellare and facilitate its dispersal to them. Dominance of T. pellucida is associated with larger gaps produced by decay. The interaction of the regeneration niche and the disturbance regime are found to be primary determinants of community structure on this unstable substrate.
10.2307/2481850|The karyotype of Habranthus Andersoni var. texanus was relatively constant in the 3 plants studied. 2. The karyotypes of Z. Drummondii and Z. brazosensis were constant from cell to cell within a particular plant, but varied considerably from plant to plant. Several chromosome numbers were found in different plants of Z. brazosensis and Z. longifolia. 3. Aneusomaty was found in Z. longifolia as well as an interesting haploid condition in one root tip. 4. The discrepancies which appear in the literature on the karyotype of a particular species of plant may possibly be caused by the methods used in studying the material or in the terminology used in describing the material, but in many cases it may be caused by variation within the species itself.
10.2307/2483789|In central Oklahoma the prairie climax does not reoccupy old-fields for a considerable time after abandonment. These fields are low in nitrogen, and there is a definite correlation between the sequence of invading species and their increasing requirements for nitrogen. Several low nitrogen requiring species of the pioneer stages were found previously to be inhibitory to nitrifying and nitrogen-fixing bacteria, and several phenolic inhibitors were identified from these species, among them gallic and tannic acid. Both of these compounds were found to be highly effective in the reduction of nodulation and the amount of leghemoglobin produced in bean plants when added in low concentrations in sand culture or soil. Soils from underneath Euphorbia supina, an important species in abandoned fields, and Rhus copallina, important only in localized areas of such fields, were found to be highly effective in the reduction of nodulation. Large quantities of gallic and tannic acid were found in these soils and in the duff underneath Rhus copallina. Known amount of tannic acid below 400 ppm could not be recovered from the soil with the best extraction procedure devised, but in spite of this, concentrations of 33-300 ppm were still effective in reducing symbiotic nitrogen-fixation. Resistant strains of Rhizobium were obtained which were able to induce nodulation as well in the presence of tannic acid as without it, but they were much less effective in inducing nodulation and synthesis of leghemoglobin under control conditions than the non-resistant strains from which they were isolated. Unquestionably, plants which produce large amounts of gallic or tannic acid would decrease the rate of addition of nitrogen to old-fields and thus slow the rate of succession. This appears to be true also of plants that produce other kinds of inhibitory compounds. The decreased effectiveness in nitrogen-fixation of strains resistant to inhibitors would certainly enhance this effect.
10.2307/2484003|Field observations and greenhouse experiments were made 1965-68 on the ecology of Talinum mengesii Wolf (Portulacaceae), a succulent perennial herb found primarily in very shallow soil on sandstone and granite outcrops of northern Alabama. This species grows during the driest, hottest part of the summer, its bright pink flowers on long, wiry stalks opening and closing at fixed times each day. Soil erosion, causing loss of seeds, seedlings, and mature plants into streams in gorges below the outcrops, is a major factor in limiting abundance of Talinum on sandstone outcrops. Remarkable drought resistance and a life cycle in harmony with the environment allow the persistence of the species on the outcrops, but interspecific competition and erosion control its distribution and abundance thereon.
10.2307/2996462|The presence of a xylem discontinuity (anomalous tracheary elements collateral with normal sieve elements) in the sole vascular supply to the grain suggests that anatomical specialization aids partitioning of photosynthate to this "strong sink" Calculations based on recent anatomical studies of Anthoxanthum (sweet vernal grass) show that resistance to Poiseuille flow through the xylem discontinuity is some 10<sup>15</sup> times greater than the flow through normal tracheary elements below the xylem discontinuity Phloem discontinuities, which are present in lateral vascular traces (to lemma and palea), and the xylem discontinuity in the only trace serving the seed strongly suggest that the seed is a "strong sink" largely for anatomical reasons
10.2307/2484588|Soil microfungi associated with suspended material in surface water samples from the Connecticut River and adjacent Long Island Sound were investigated during June-August 1973. Salinity and other physical factors determined at the stations sampled did not preclude the presence of soil fungi during the sampling period. The physical factors and fungi determined from stations sampled are given.
10.2307/2483095|1. Canavanine inhibition of Lemna minor growth can be overcome with members of the structurally related arginine cycle. 2. 2,6-Diaminopurine inhibition can be overcome with adenine. 3. Penicillin G and adenine both stimulate the growth of duckweed, apparently by different mechanisms. This effect, in both cases, is due to a shortened lag period and an increased growth rate.
10.2307/2996995|Phyllitis scolopendrium (L.) Newm. americana Fern., American hart's-tongue fern, is federally listed as threatened in the United States. Over 90% (3715 individuals) of the U.S. population of this species occurs in two counties in central New York. The objective of this study was to investigate site and vegetation characteristics associated with vigor and abundance of P. scolopendrium at different growth stages, i. e., sporeling, immature, and mature individuals. Sporelings were most vigorous beneath herb and shrub canopies and in bryophyte mats. Mature P scolopendrium was associated with rock crevices, an accumulation of organic matter, and a low cover of bryophytes; and was least vigorous beneath herb and shrub canopies. Other factors, e. g., middle slope positions having a northeast aspect, and hardwood tree canopy, were favorable to all growth stages. All growth stages are excluded beneath crowns of evergreen species in the canopy or shrub layer. Results of this research suggest possible management strategies to enhance populations of this species.
10.2307/2482530|Leaf spot diseases incited by a species of Sclerophthora resembling Sclerophthora cryophila were collected on four forage grasses, Digitaria marginata Link, Apluda aristata L., Heteropogon contortus Beauv. and Dicanthium annulatum Forsk. The four hosts represent new records for the fungus. The sporangia and zoospores were readily produced by incubating diseased material under optimum humidity and temperature conditions. Inoculation experiments in Digitaria marginata and Heteropogon contortus showed that they were host specific and probably represent physiological forms.
10.2307/2483565|This study in volves the content of fungal spores in a 7.78 meter long core of sediment taken from Lake Chishi, a Zambian rift lake. This lake is entirely surrounded by swamp and an abundant growth of papyrus widely occupies its border. The oldest portion of the deposit has an age in excess of 38,000 years. The kinds of spores found at each level are illustrated. The population of spores is sparse at all depths. A few kinds occur at widely separated levels and are absent at intervening levels. Whether Caesalpinaceous species and papyrus served as hosts for any of these fungi remains unknown. The sediment deposited during the past few thousand years has a large organic matter content that probably was contributed largely by papyrus and Botryococcus. Factors that appear to be casually related to preservation of spores in sediment, such as organic matter content, mineral matter content, oxidation, and chemical nature of the spore walis are briefly discussed.
10.2307/2483647|Germination, growth, and flowering characteristics were determined for Cakile maritima from 6 scattered locations along the California coast. Plants were grown from seed in growth chambers and under field conditions at Bodega Bay. In growth chambers, germination and root growth response to temperature, and seedling growth rates were similar for all populations. Flowering response to a 12 hr photoperiod varied considerably, but not in a clinal nature. Cakile maritima has a higher reproductive potential than C. edentula ssp. californica. Although its growth rate declines when cultivated with the latter, its greater production of seeds is probably the reason it has displaced C. edentula ssp. californica in California. Only C. edentula ssp. californica seems capable of extensive selfing. In the field, experiments revealed that the upper and lower seeds of each fruit have different germination requirements. About 90% of all seedlings arose within a 1 m radius of parent clumps. Germination and early seedling survival required a minimum of 2 weeks' rainy weather. Sowing experiments revealed that germination and early seedling growth were greater behind the foredune than on the strand; after 14 weeks, only a few strand plants still survived. It was hypothesized that C. maritima does not naturally occur behind the foredune because of poor seed dispersal and continual grazing pressure by organisms not present on the strand.
10.2307/2996628|The two corolla aestivation patterns that delimit the subfamilies Antirrhinoideae and Rhinanthoideae in Scrophulariaceae were investigated in 38 genera representing 15 tribes. The ontogenetic events producing the two patterns are reported for Scrophularia atrata (Antirrhinoideae) and Rhinanthus mediterraneus (Rhinanthoideae), which are representative of the the entire survey. The corolla primordia of Scrophularia and other Antirrhinoideae are initiated simultaneously in a whorl. A subsequent adaxial acceleration of corolla growth along with orientational differences results in the adaxial portion of the corolla folding over the abaxial portions. In Rhinanthus and other Rhinanthoideae a corolla primordium is initiated on the abaxial side of the floral apex followed by a unidirectional initiation of the remaining corollar and androecial primordia toward the adaxial side. The accelerated abaxial growth, along with some orientational differences, results in the abaxial corolla lobes folding over the adaxial lobes. The early developmental stages of corolla formation appear to be systematically conservative, unambiguous characters that lead to characteristic patterns of corolla aestivation. The ontogenetic patterns are interpreted as evidence of independent evolution of zygomorphy in each subfamily.
10.2307/2995936|This study examines whether fruit ingestion improves seed germination of Amelanchier arborea (Michx.f.) Fern. Seeds were treated in four ways: counted but retained in intact fruit, removed mechanically from fruit pulp, separated from fruit pulp through consumption of the pulp by cedar waxwing, Bombycilla cedrorum, and by eastern chipmunk, Tamias striatus. The mechanical and cedar waxwing removal of fruit pulp significantly enhanced seed germination. However, the eastern chipmunk proved to be a seed predator. The chipmunk cracked the seeds and consumed the embryos.
10.2307/2996369|Vegetation of Fire Island, New York is based exclusively on collectionsmade by the authors in September-October, 1984, and April-October, 1985. Altogether, 411 specific and subspecific taxa of vascular plants are reported from the area including 254 genera and 89 families. Largest families are Poaceae (59 species) and Asteraceae (57 species) and largest genera are Panicum, Aster, Solidago, and Cyperus. Three hundred nineteen species are non-woody, which underscores the generally graminoid and herbaceous appearance of Fire Island.
10.2307/2484311|Mayer's stain for animal mucins was found to be selective for the mucilages of Tilia, imparting to them a black color. Embedded stem sections and the slimy secretions of cut stems were treated with 5% aqueous tannic acid for 10 min, washed, treated with 3% aqueous ferric chloride for 1 min, washed, and dried. Because of the scarcity of histochemical techniques selective for plant mucilages, Mayer's stain for mucins merits further testing among other plants which synthesize mucilages.
10.2307/2997032|A list of the plant associates of Solidago shortii at each of its 13 population sites was compiled, and population site number 1, where >50% of the total number of stems of this federal endangered species occur, was sampled by the quadrat method. Of the 228 plant taxa at the 13 population sites, 112 were present at 1-20% of the sites, and only 12 were present at 81-100% of the sites. Community coefficients (Sorensen's similarity index) based on species presence ranged from only 10% to 66% among the 78 pairwise comparisons of the 13 sites, and floristic similarities between each of three sites and the other 12 were 40% or less. Thus, Solidago shortii does not occur with a coherent group of species. Furthermore, most of its associates are common and geographically widespread, and 50 are non-native. Solidago shortii is the only federal-listed species at the 13 population sites, and only two of its associates, Gentiana flavida and Spiranthes magnicamporum, are endangered or threatened in Kentucky. Fifty-four percent of the 228 taxa at the 13 sites are hemicryptophytes, and 94.6% have the C
10.2307/2484102|Two antagonists of "normal" hydroxyproline-protein synthesis, 2, 2'-dipyridyl and hydroxy-L-proline, induce phenovariation in Jungermannia lanceolata L. (Jungermanniaceae) similar to that induced by these compounds in Nowellia curvifolia (Dicks) Mitt. (Cephaloziaceae) and Scapania nemorosa (L.) Dum. (Scapaniaceae). The finding further supports an hypothesized cardinal role for hydroxyproline-protein in modulating aspects of morphogenesis important to the understanding of the systematics and phylogeny of leafy liverworts.
10.2307/2483600|Several nearly unaltered endocarps of Nyssa were found in Eocene sediments of the Mississippi embayment. The morphology of these endocarps was studied in detail. These newly found endocarps are related to compressed Nyssa endocarps previously reported from the Eocene sediments of the Mississippi embayment and to the nyssas found in the Brandon lignite deposits. Nyssa wilcoxiana Berry is put in synonymy with N. eolignitica Berry.
10.2307/2995979|The development of the female gametophyte in Xyris schoenoides Mart. has been investigated. The ovary is superior, tricarpellary and unilocular with parietal placentation. The ovules are orthotropous, bitegmic, and tenuinucellate. A hypodermal archesporial cell functions directly as the megaspore mother cell. The chalazal dyad cell functions and the development of the embryo sac is bisporic following the Allium type. Antipodal cells are not organized and the three nuclei degenerate before fertilization. In the mature embryo sac, the secondary nucleus is located near to the egg apparatus. The results of the present study are evaluated in the light of the previous embryological work on the family.
10.2307/2560353|Erythronium albidum is characterized by non-reproducing, vegetatively reproducing and sexually reproducing individuals. A single population was studied to estimate productivity and biomass allocation in the three plant types and to determine the relative importance of vegetative and sexual reproduction in the population dynamics. Net production of the three plant types was estimated at 105, 157, and 523 mg, respectively. Reproductive effort, both in terms of absolute biomass allocation and as a proportion of spring production, was greater in vegetatively reproducing plants. However, the rate of establishment is far lower for propagules produced by sexual reproduction than by vegetative reproduction. Thus, when determined on the basis of successful establishment of reproductive propagules sexual reproduction accounts for a greater proportion of spring production than vegetative reproduction.
10.2307/2482870|1. Pollen analyses of sediments from 2.55-5.20 m depth in a bog near Taunton, in southeastern Massachusetts, are presented in a pollen diagram. 2. The pollen sequence in the organic sediments includes the Lower Durham Spruce pollen zone (A-1-2-3), deposited during the Two Creeks interval, the Upper Durham Spruce zone (A-4), deposited during the subsequent Valders time, and the Lower and Upper Pine zones (B-1 and B-2). The overlying peat was not analyzed. The underlying highly inorganic sediments, which are contaminated with secondary pollen, are apparently stratigraphically equivalent to the Herb pollen zone (T or T-3) at other sites. 3. The pollen diagram differs from others in that the ratio of spruce to pine pollen in zones A-1-2-3 and A-4 is lower than at Petersham and Athol, and higher than at sites nearer the coast. Spruce pollen percentages do not reach a maximum early in the spruce pollen zone, as at some other sites, but increase throughout zone A-1-2-3. Oak pollen percentages in zone A-1-2-3 are higher than recorded at other sites. 4. There is no evidence that a vegetational or climatic oscillation prior to the Two Creeks interval occurred after deposition of the sediments began.
10.2307/2484165|Carex kobomugi Ohwi is reported at Sandy Hook, Monmouth County, New Jersey, associated with Ammophila breviligulata Fern. on primary and secondary dunes in three locations.
10.2307/2482409|Leaf anatomy and histology of 24 species of Eriachne were examined. In epidermal structure they belong to Prat's (1936) panicoid type, and their features appearing in trans-sections are also very close to Brown's (1958) panicoid and chloridoid types. The systematic difference of Eriachne from Aveneae is discussed from the viewpoints of morphology and leaf structure.
10.2307/2484762|There are 27 species of Cucurbita, including 5 cultivated species, which are all indigenous to the Americas. The cultivated species are primarily isolated from each other by genetic barriers although they share common loci. Cucurbita moschata seems to occupy a key role as the putative ancestor of the genus. We suggest that the five cultivated species evolved independently responding more to natural pressures of evolution and to a lesser extent on the dependency of primitive man. The potential of domesticating the wild species C. foetidissima as a crop which has evolved without the benefit of man is discussed.
10.2307/2483008|Leaves and leaflets of Rosa possess a great variety of morphological characters making it impossible to distinguish one "species" from another on the basis of randomly selected foliage. This observation applies to fossil imprints as well. It is equally impossible to indicate a narrow relationship between fossil roses and any one living plant. It is proposed that 12 American and Asiatic species be combined in the form species Rosa hilliae Lesquereux, the oldest named form in North America, and that 6 European and Alaskan species be incorporated in this combination. This proposal rests on the premise that all fossil organs of Rosa are conspecific when associated with a description based on leaves or leaflets if only one single species of Rosa is named in a flora on the basis of foliage. A comparison of all leaf- and leaflet species of Rosa suggests a genetic variability relationship among all cited forms which practically nullifies the validity of specific connotation. This procedure offers the best solution in preventing the creation of new, taxonomically meaningless names.
10.2307/2997167|Flowering among three study populations of Magnolia schiedeana Schlecht. (Magnoliaceae) varied considerably, beginning in January or February and continuing for 2 to 4 months. The variability in time of flowering led to very low fruit production in some populations when not coincident with pollinator emergence. Flowers produced a strong fruity fragrance, were functional for one day, protogynous (opening in the morning and becoming male the same afternoon), and self-compatible. Pollinators were beetles, Stenagria sp. (Staphylinidae) and Cyclocephala jalapensis (Scarabaeidae), that entered flowers at night and remained throughout the next day engaged in a variety of behaviors (copulation and feeding on pollen and petal tissue). Cyclocephala jalapensis, a regional endemic, is closely associated with cloud forest habitat and appears dependent on M. schiedeana for adult nutrition. Magnolia schiedeana therefore seems to possess a more specialized pollination system than temperate Magnolia species. All three populations experienced some degree of previous disturbance (cutting) and exhibited very low fertility. The average tree produced 1 flower per day, 2-4 flowers during the season, and 1 fruit. Regeneration of populations was primarily by resprouting of roots and trunk bases and not seedling recruitment. Future existence of M. schiedeana within Veracruz is jeopardized by deforestation brought about by a large human population struggling for basic necessities.
10.2307/2996486|The responses of early and late successional tree seedlings were compared on gradients of light, moisture, and nutrients in order to further test the hypothesis that competition resulting in niche separation has been a more important selective force in late successional communities than in early successional communities The mean calculated niche breadth and proportional similarity for the early successional seedlings, Pinus taeda, Crataegus mollis, and Gleditsia triacanthos, was higher than the mean breadth and proportional similarity of the late successional seedlings, Quercus rubra, Tilia americana, and Acer saccharum, on the moisture and nutrient gradients All species had broad responses to the light gradient. These results are consistent with our earlier work on herbaceous plant communities in finding broader, more similar niche responses among early successional than late successional species
10.2307/2484542|A survey of the vegetation of Fort Washington State Park, Montgomery County, Pennsylvania showed that the south slope, north slope, and ridge-top are dominated by Quercus velutina, Q. alba, and Q. coccinea with a mixture of Acer rubrum and Carya spp. as accessory hardwoods. Cornus florida dominates the under-story with Viburnum acerifolium, being the most abundant shrub. These mixed-oak hardwood stands provide further evidence that this suburban area was occupied by communities of the former oak-chestnut forest region.
10.2307/2483365|Examination of the outer oospore wall ornamentation in quadriscutate and octoscutate (antheridial shield-cell number) collections of Chara zeylanica indicates that a consistent difference exists among those populations sampled. Description of the wall pattern plus photomicrographs are included.
10.2307/2996990|The distribution, size, growth form, and stem histories of American chestnut (Castanea dentata (Marsh.) Borkh.) and chinquapin (Castanea pumila (L.) Miller) were studied at three sites in eastern North America to compare reproduction by sprouting and effects of chestnut blight on clone survival. The three sites included one in Massachusetts with chestnut only, one in Arkansas with chinquapin only, and one in Virginia with about equal populations of chestnut and chinquapin. Spatial distribution of living Castanea clones is similar at all three sites, with clones occurring in irregular clusters with densities ranging from less than one to more than 200 clones per hectare. Large stems of chestnut and chinquapin killed shortly after the first appearance of blight were mapped at the Massachusetts and Arkansas sites. Extensive areas with old logs and stumps but with few or no living sprout clones appear to indicate failure of these species to reproduce in established stands in pre-blight times. Examination of root collar structure, manner of sprout initiation, and stem form for both Castanea species shows a continuum of growth habits that range from the regular generation of sprouts from laterally extensive and persistent root collars typical of Allegheny chinquapin in Virginia to the periodic regeneration and replacement of both stems and root collars typical of chestnut in Massachusetts. The single distinct difference between sprout regeneration in chestnut and chinquapin is that chestnut sprouts appear to always generate new root collars whereas chinquapin root collars remain alive almost indefinitely. Occasional destruction of chestnut stems by blight does not seem to significantly influence clone survival despite minimal blight resistance in chestnut. However, chinquapin appears to have more natural resistance to blight than chestnut. This prolongs the lifetime of active cankers and increases the long term impact of blight by providing sources for the infection of basal shoots stimulated by the infection. Such a process may explain the large number of dead chinquapin sprout clones found in Arkansas, and a smaller but significant number of dead chinquapin clones found in Virginia.
10.2307/2995942|Two new taxa of Mexican Aster are described: Aster schaffneri Schultz-Bip. ex Sundberg & A. G. Jones (with affinities to A. lateriflorus (L.) Britton and A. leonis Britton) and A. moranensis Kunth var. turneri Sundberg & A. G. Jones.
10.2307/2483474|Twenty-two soil samples from areas endemic for Coccidioides immitis in California were screened for C. immitis. Suspensions prepared from these soils were sprayed onto plates of Sabouraud's Glucose Agar fortified with penicillin, streptomycin and 1.0 or 2.0 mg Acti-dione per ml; incubated, observed for growth and fungal isolates identified. In addition to the recovery of C. immitis from each sample, 64 other fungal species were isolated from all of the samples. These fungi are listed. Some of the fungi recovered produce asexual spores similar to those of C. immitis and it is possible to confuse them with the pathogen, at least in early stages of growth. Although a decrease in recovery of fungi was noted at the 2.0 mg Acti-dione/ml level, some species were inhibited at the 1.0 mg/ml level. These findings indicate that a greater number of species of fungi tolerate this antibiotic and in greater concentrations than has been previously recorded.
10.2307/2483418|Corn seeds (Zea mays L. var. Michigan hybrid 350) were germinated at the constant temperature of 25-27
10.2307/2483851|Meiosis and fertility were studied in two collections of Agropyron stipaefolium Czern., a little known grass from European Russia. All plants were normally cross-pollinating tetraploids, 2n = 28, with some capacity for selfing. Frequent quadrivalent formation at diakinesis, 3.34
10.2307/2995984|Cluster analysis of nine hemlock stands in Rhode Island and eastern Connecticut resulted in two groups: a hemlock-white pine group and a hemlock-hardwoods group consisting of two sub-groups hemlock-chestnut oak and hemlock-mixed hardwoods. Hemlock is the most abundant species in the overstory and dominates regeneration in all stands. Age distribution of hemlock in all but one stand approaches an unevenaged condition. Seven out of the nine stands studied show some evidence of disturbance including logging, windfall and possibly fire. Hemlock is the only species showing both growth releases and suppressions indicating great flexibility to respond to environmental events. Spatial distribution patterns show understory hemlocks are generally arranged in a contagious pattern and overstory hemlocks in a random pattern. The contagious arrangement of understory is attributed to sporadic reproduction in favorable locations, while the random distribution of overstory stems is related to tolerance to competition and ability to fill canopy openings.
10.2307/2996666|A comparison of the extant native alpine flora with the historical record revealed changes since the first botanical survey in 1829. Herbarium and literature evidence suggest four alpine taxa disappeared. Alnus viridis and Vaccinium vitis-idaea were lost between 1840 and 1874. Hierochloe alpina and Polygonum viviparum were last recorded in 1876. Apparently no new native alpine species immigrated this century.
10.2307/2996209|The origin of, and developmental changes in, the vascular cambium of Aeschynomene virginica were determined by an analysis of the radial files of xylem cells All cells of the procambium and primary xylem are axially elongated with transverse end walls Most procambial cells, primordial fusiform initials, give rise to fusiform cambial initials which divide by anticlinal partitions as the cambium increases in circumference Some cells in uniseriate axial strands, primordial ray initials, do not divide anticlinally, and many are converted into primary ray initials consisting of 4-12 cells The primoridal fusiform initials average 180  m long while primordial ray initials average 114  m long The transition from procambium to cambium is gradual The fusiform initials do not acquire abruptly tapered end walls until considerable secondary xylem is formed Most anticlinal divisions in fusiform cambial initials are radial, and a storied cambium develops close to the pith The frequency of radial anticlinal division is just adequate to keep pace with the increase in circumference of the cambium as the tangential diameter of the cambial cells remains approximately the same throughout secondary growth Transverse divisions do occur in some of the longer fusiform initials, resulting in the formation of short stories These transverse divisions result in a slight decrease in mean cell length of the fusiform initials during secondary growth Some fusiform initials are converted into secondary ray initials during cambial activity by simple subdivision The initials formed consist of 2-6 cells
10.2307/2484449|Arisaema quinatum is transferred to subspecific status under Arisaema triphyllum, making a fourth subspecies of the species. A table is included comparing the distinguishing characteristics of the subspecies and the evidence of hybridization is discussed.
10.2307/2560351|Physcia nakanishii from Soya Coast, Antarctica, is described as new. Sterile specimens with labriform soralia from the same coast are referred to Parmelia (Physcioideae) Coreyi Dodge & Baker.
10.2307/2482305|1. Specimens of Rinodina oreina s. l. in North America may be divided into three groups or strains by the use of P and C; P + C -, P - C +, and P - C -. The lichen acids responsible for the color tests are protocetraric (?) P + and gyrophoric C +. 2. There is no significant variation in morphology among the strains. 3. The geographical distribution of each strain was determined by examining a large number of herbarium specimens in addition to field studies. P + C - and P - C + strains are typically found in the deciduous forests; P - C + and P - C - strains occur in the prairies and the arctic and some alpine regions. 4. It is proposed that the chemically dissimilar plants be called the Chemical strains of R. oreina and not be regarded as different species. Those plants reacting P + C - and P - C + are Chemical strains I and II respectively of the active phase and those P - C - are the inactive phase of II.
10.2307/2481828|1. B. uniflora appears to be a rather restricted species, being found on and along the limestone hills of the Texas Edwards Plateau and south into the Mexican states of Coahuila and Nuevo Leon. B. curtipendula, on the other hand, is quite widespread, being found on hills, plains, and prairies from southern Canada to Argentina. From the evidence of distribution, morphology, and cytology, B. uniflora and B. curtipendula appear to be "good" species. The diagnostic characters of the two taxa have been tabulated. 2. Meiosis in anthers of B. uniflora is regular whereas in B. curtipendula meiosis in microsporogenesis may be regular, or variably irregular. The basic chromosome number for B. uniflora and B. curtipendula seems to be x = 10; B. uniflora being a diploid species and B. curtipendula showing varying degrees of polyploidy. Additional evidence from B. chondrosioides and B. radicosa together with investigations of other workers supports the previous assumption that x = 10 for the section ATHEROPOGON. 3. The authors have postulated that at least two species have been involved in the formation of tetraploid B. curtipendula plants. The mechanism by which this occurred is assumed to be segmental-alloploidy. B. curtipendula has a morphologic expression intermediate between that of B. uniflora and some putative B. radicosa-like taxon. Above the tetraploid level, varying degrees of allo- and autopolyploidy have arisen, producing a polyploid complex with apomixis. Acknowledgement. It is a pleasure to acknowledge the interested support of the Grass Research Project by the following individuals and corporate groups: Mr. E. W. Brown, Jr.; Mr. Joe Bridwell; Mr. J. Catto, Jr.; Mr. Bryan Edwards; Mr. Ewing Halsell; Mr. L. B. Hapgood; Mr. Richard King; Mr. Tom Lasater; Mr. Claude McCan; Mr. M. H. W. Ritchie; Mr. G. R. White; Mrs. Anne Burnett Windfohr; Humble Oil and Refining Company; King Ranch; San Antonio Loan and Trust Company; Sawyer Cattle Company; and Swift and Company.
10.2307/2996120|Seven north-central West Virginia Rhododendron maximum thickets, ranging from 0.2 to 0.6 ha, were studied to determine: the occurrence of and ecological conditions for rhododendron reproduction and vegetative propagation, the relationship between past logging history and thicket formation and dynamics and the effect of dense rhododendron thickets on overstory reproduction and recruitment. Thickets were relatively even-aged and did not appear to be increasing in area. The overstories were younger than the rhododendrons and tree seedlings and saplings occurred within thickets. Thickets were found to date from the most recent logging operations. Moisture conditions varied from mesic to subxeric. Drier thickets with more open canopies, sparse herb coverage and an abundance of moss produced rosebay seedlings prolifically in adjacent areas. Thickets with wetter conditions, denser canopies and lush herbaceous growth produced very few rosebay seedlings; however, they exhibited profuse layering.
10.2307/2996186|Secretion of nectar in unpollinated flowers of Asclepias syriaca (Asclepiadaceae) clones, located in northern Michigan and northwestern New York state, began after sepal reflexion, and reached a maximum on the second day of a 3 to 6 day production period. A diurnal secretion pattern occurred with peak rates between 0400 and 0800 hr. At any specific sampling time, sugar concentrations of nectar samples were relatively constant in bagged flowers (although affected by microclimatic variables). Nectar volumes varied more widely. Nectar secretion was probably affected by several factors of the microhabitat, especially air temperature, soil moisture, and solar radiation. Total lifetime sugar production for single flowers ranged up to 7.5 mg with mean peak 24 hr yield of 2.8 mg. More sugar was produced in the Michigan plants than those in New York. The total amount of sugar produced was not affected by frequency of nectar removal. Available nectar (standing crop per flower) in midseason averaged 1.3  l, containing 0.3 mg sugar, but varied with flower age, time of day, microclimate, and visitation by nectar feeders. Analysis of nectar samples by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) revealed a sucrose-dominant nectar with an average sucrose/hexose (S/H) ratio of 8.8. The S/H ratio decreased with flower age at both sites. A difference was noted in plant morphology with New York plants having more umbels and seed pods per stem than those in Michigan. This, combined with temporal weather patterns and edaphic factors, may have been responsible for the site-to-site differences found in nectar production. Most of the nectarivores that fed at A. syriaca took nectar during the day (96% between 0600 and 2000 hr). Wasps (Vespidae and Sphecidae) and bumblebees (Apidae, Bombus) were the most abundant visitors in northern Michigan and made up 25% of the attracted clientele. In New York, honey bees (Apis mellifera L.) were the principal nectar feeders (57% of the total).
10.2307/2484886|A synopsis of the species and varieties of the genus Schomburgkia Lindl. of the Orchidaceae found in the West Indies, with full details of synonymy and a key to the taxa. The author records a total of 8 species and 6 varieties for the region, but no new species nor combinations are proposed.
10.2307/2484082|A 3.8 m section taken from the Hackensack tidal marsh, New Jersey indicates changes in land-sea relationships during the past approximately 2,600 years. Because a much older glacial clay underlies the organic sediments, an unconformity is indicated in the stratigraphic record. Three hypotheses are proposed to explain this hiatus, including a possible marine transgression, constant estuarine conditions, or a fluvial erosional regime. The stratigraphy defined from pollen, spores, seeds, bracts and foraminifera traces the development of the marsh from initial Alnus detritus deposition through a sedge peat to the present-day silty muck. Seven pollen assemblage zones are found in the record. Fluctuations in the profiles of Cyperaceae, Gramineae, and Polypodiaceae suggest periodic tidal inundation at the site. Greater tidal influence at approximately 1,800 BP. is reflected by increasing numbers of foraminifera and by the dominance of cyperaceous pollen and seeds. Invasion of species characteristic of human disturbance is indicated in the uppermost sediments. Correlation of radiocarbon dates and pollen, spore, seed, and foraminifera stratigraphy in sediment from the Hackensack tidal marsh substantiates changes evident from studies in other coastal marshes of the northeastern United States.
10.2307/2996944|An understanding of the factors influencing western larch (Larix occidentalis Nunn.) germination and first year establishment are important in the regeneration of that species. We measured small scale microsite heterogeneity on an Abies grandis (Dougl. ex D. Don) Lindl./Physocarpus malvaceus (Greene) Kuntze habitat type in northern Idaho. Microsites were classified by three locator (site, line, sampling point) and eight descriptor (duff depth, litter cover, stick number, vegetative shading, soil surface roughness, presence of small or large vegetation, moss) categorical variables in October 1987. A burning treatment was applied to half of the sampling points. Classification of microsite types (distinct combinations of different variables) was performed pre-treatment, post-treatment, and one year later. Variation was investigated using principal component analysis and chi-square analysis. Burning reduced microsite variety, especially single-occurring microsite types, but the reduction was short-lived. The microsite type most common in all three measurements (<5 cm duff, 21-70% litter cover, and zero sticks, moss, shading, vegetation and soil surface roughness) was reduced in frequency of occurrence with burning. Locator variables accounted for 98% of the variation. If locator variables were excluded from the analysis, shading, litter and small vegetation were the primary descriptor variables accounting for 73-84% of the microsite type variation. Burning removed small vegetation as a primary variable, and inclusion of time as a variable removed site as a primary variable. Litter, small vegetation, soil surface roughness, duff and sticks were significantly affected by burning treatment; shading, moss, and large vegetation were not significantly effected by treatment. Seven western larch (Larix occidentalis) seeds were distributed after burning treatment on each sample point, and the number of germinations, germinants and seedlings were tracked over two growing seasons. Germinations (741) and germinants (656) from 17,500 seeds occurred on a wide variety of burned and unburned microsite types. Microsite types with successful germination, germinants, and seedling establishment are the "safe sites" (seedbed with proper conditions) for these stages of seedling development. Safe site requirements became more specific as the seedling developed, with only 47 seedlings surviving to the end of the first growing season. Seedlings survived on safe sites which represented 1.5% of the total area. The eight physical characteristics used to describe microsite types were evaluated with discriminant analysis for significance at each seedling stage. Significant variables and interactions were identified for regression. Analysis produced high (R
10.2307/2484451|The arborescent vegetation of Alley Park, Queens County, New York was sampled by the point-centered quarter method in October 1975 and compared with the vegetation present on a map of arborescent individuals of Alley Park prepared by the Works Program Administration in 1936. Quercus rubra was dominant in 1936 and 1975, while Cornus florida was the dominant sub-canopy tree. Oak species remain the dominant canopy trees.
10.2307/2483548|Four groups of Caltha leptosepala DC. plants released sequentially from underneath a snowbank at 3,231 m in the Snowy Range of Wyoming were observed for phenological differences and measured for dry weight, caloric content (cal/g), and total sugars during the 1963 growing season. Snowbank position, maximum and minimum soil and air temperatures, and soil moisture were recorded for each plot. The data showed that the second group of plants released from the snowbank developed most rapidly and showed the highest dry weight when compared with other groups at a similar number of days' growth. The caloric content (cal/g) of the second group of plants to emerge decreased over the season while total sugar values remained at a high level. On the other hand, for the last plants to emerge, caloric content (cal/g) increased during the season while total sugar values remained at a low level. Reasons for these differences are discussed. It is suggested that the response of Caltha plants to the environments in early and late emerging snowbank areas means that the tolerance limits of the plants are being approached in these areas.
10.2307/2481912|1. The early stage of the gametophyte shows great variation and may be a mass, plate or filament. The first wall divides the germinating spore into the first prothallial cell and the first rhizoid. There may then develop a more or less irregular mass, a plate or a filament of two or three, less frequently eight to ten cells. The young prothallus takes on a spatulate form and then becomes cordate. 2. The mature gametophyte is cordate with wings which have a more or less irregular margin. As the thallus continues growth it becomes ribbon-like with a heavy midrib (10-18 cells thick) and uplifted ruffled wings. The base in large gametophytes is usually heavy and club-shaped. Old gametophytes may branch and maintain two apices producing archegonia. The rhizoids are stiff, abundant, usually reddish brown, and in general limited to the midrib. 3. In many species two-celled glandular hairs develop on the midrib or wings in the region of the archegonia; the large tip cell may contain tannin. The hair arises from a special initial, a wedge-shaped cell cut off from the anterior side of a cell in the region of the archegonia. Occasionally such hairs are also found on the margin. 4. The gametophytes are monoecious. The earliest appearance of antheridia was in Sticherus bifidus seven weeks after the planting of spores. The antheridia vary greatly in size from relatively small to large and complex with 10-12 cells in the wall and with a spermatocyte content of several hundred. The cap cell is thrown off at dehiscence. The archegonia have long necks directed towards the apex, ordinarily with seven to nine cells in a tier, but in Gleichenia vulcanica sometimes 12-14. The necks are approximately straight or bent forward towards the apex. The axial row usually consists of egg, ventral canal and a binucleate neck canal cell, but the presence of two canal cells in the neck is not unusual. 5. No cases of apogamy were found in any of the ten species in this investigation.
10.2307/2484204|The presence of Stellaria pallida (Dum.) Pire (= S. apetala auct. non Ueria) in North America is confirmed on the basis of material recently collected at Kitty Hawk, N.C. The differences between this species (2n = 22) and the ubiquitous weed S. media (L.) Vill. (2n = 40-44) are tabulated.
10.2307/2996205|Vegetation of five southern Lake Wales Ridge associations was sampled at Archbold Biological Station, Lake Placid, Florida, in permanent nested quadrats in each of the associations in 1969 and 1979 These associations have been free of fire for over 50 years. Quadrats were sampled for species composition, density, and growth parameters of herbs, shrubs, and trees, and also for percent litter coverage and depth. Several trends were apparent in all the associations examined: (1) substantial thinning of herb and shrub layers with disappearance of several shade-intolerant species; (2) an increase in tree canopy coverage despite extensive shrub thinning, as few trees died in the 10-year study period; (3) an increase in shrub and tree species richness and diversity; (4) increase in litter coverage and depth; and (5) a slow rate of succession, not appreciably different among the five communities Pairwise comparisons of the 1969 and 1979 Horn's Indices from different communities did not reveal support for the successional relationships proposed in the literature
10.2307/2483293|The following species are transferred from the genus Clavulinopsis: C. rufipes and C. biformis to Ramariopsis, C. filipes to Clavaria. A redescription and photograph of Ramariopsis tenuiramosa are given, constituting the first report of this fungus from North America.
10.2307/2484304|A new species, Rhus chiangii, is described from limestone slopes near Gomez Palacio, Durango, Mexico. Distinctive features of this species are its simple, deciduous leaves and paniculate inflorescences. The species appears to be intermediate between Rhus subgen. Rhus and subgen. Lobadium.
10.2307/2484382|Several corrections and additions to the flora of the region previously published (Greller 1977) are made.
10.2307/2483834|Cultures of 2 strains of Scenedesmus obliquus were incubated in a pond in sterile vessels and examined daily. At low temperatures motile cells were produced, and remained for several days. Ammonia and nitrate levels in the pond appeared to be typical, but considerably below amounts in laboratory media.
10.2307/2996341|Amyema melaleucae is a coastal mistletoe endemic to Australia. It is recorded as a parasite on only two Melaleuca spp. (Myrtaceae). South Australian populations of A. melaleucae appear to be described as bearing both chasmogamous and sub-cleistogamous flowers. Both floral forms are self-compatible and are distinguished by differences in morphology and gross ontogeny. Mechanical autogamy cannot occur in Normal Style (chasmogamous) flowers as the stigma is always above the anther tips and is pressed into a petalline trichome cap in the mature bud. When anthers dehisce in the mature bud (the Chinese Lantern phase) pollen is discharged ineffectually onto the style. Conversely the stigma is always found below the anther tips in the mature bud or Short Style (sub-cleistogamous) flowers. Anthers dehisce directly onto the stigma. Pollen tubes are found in the styles of Short Style flowers when they are allowed to open spontaneously on agar. The ratio of Normal Style to Short Style flowers differs sharply between two isolated populations. The ratio of Short: Normal styles was highest in the population occupying a severely disrupted habitat on a sand spit. This population had the highest rate of reproductive success compared to any population of any Amyema spp. studied previously. The trend towards sub-cleistogamy is interpreted as a shift towards obligate autogamy under environmental stress. Selective pressures, potentially influencing the extent of floral dimorphism in A. melaleucae, are discussed.
10.2307/2483810|When light, temperature, pH, and carbon source are held constant, 1-naphthalene acetic acid (NAA), 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and gibberellic acid (GA) cause an increase in dry and fresh weight of Salvinia at low concentrations. Indole-3-acetic acid, GA, 2,4-D and NAA at high concentrations, and kinetin or N
10.2307/2484203|Quantitative studies of the vascular tissue of Monotropa uniflora L. reveal that the amount of xylem is significantly greater than the amount of phloem In the stem, vascular tissue occurs in eustelic arrangement. An ontogenetic sequence from annular protoxylem tracheids to scalariform-reticulate metaxylem vessels is observed. Insoluble polysaccharides are stored in the cortical regions of the middle and upper stem during July. The root system is composed of first, second and third order roots uniformly covered by a dense mycorrhizal sheath that is neither strictly ectotrophic nor endotrophic. Mycelial penetration is greatest in second order roots. The stelar arrangement of the root varies: complex first order roots are typically hexarch; second order roots, tetrarch or triarch; third order roots, protostelic. Tiacheary elements are scalariform-reticulate tracheids and vessel members.
10.2307/2996048|A proline analog, 3,4-dehydroproline has been reported to be a highly selective inhibitor of prolyl hydroxylase; capable of inhibiting 90% prolyl hydroxylation in carrot tissue at a concentration as low as 50  M. When DL-3,4-dehydroproline at 50  M was supplied to axenically cultured Plagiochila arctica gametophytes, leaf primordia in the ventral region of the shoot, that are normally suppressed, developed into full-size leaves. The fact that this highly selective inhibitor of prolyl hydroxylation/hydroxyproline-protein synthesis induces the same morphogenetic changes as two proline analogs and a prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor used previously (i.e., azetidine-2-carboxylic acid, trans-4-hydroxy-L-proline and 2,2'-dipyridyl, respectively), provides strong support for our original hypothesis. A wall-associated protein containing hydroxyproline plays a critical role in suppressing cell division in localized populations of cells such as leaf primordia. Relatively small changes in the time/place of suppressed cell division appear to have profound effects on the ultimate form of leafy liverworts and probably other plants.
10.2307/2483477|Crosses of H. brachyantherum x A. scribneri, A. latiglume x H. brachyantherum, and A. scribneri x A. latiglume yielded 6, 6, and 3 viable hybrid seeds in 27, 22, and 47 hand-emasculated florets, respectively. The reciprocal A. scribneri x H. brachyantherum cross produced 8 shriveled seeds in 21 florets, but none germinated. The hybrids were for the most part morphologically intermediate between the parent species. The parents were tetraploid, 2n = 28; and each formed 14 bivalents regularly at metaphase I. The H. brachyantherum x A. scribneri hybrids averaged 15.4 I, 5.5 II, 0.5 III, and 0.02 IV in 80 metaphase-I cells, and most bivalents were loosely connected rods. Subsequent meiotic stages were highly irregular, and the hybrids were totally sterile. Meiosis was extremely irregular and sterility was complete in the A. latiglume x H. brachyantherum hybrids, which averaged 15.9 I, 5.3 II, and 0.5 III in 62 cells at metaphase I. Most of the pairing in both intergeneric hybrids was probably due to autosyndesis among the H. brachyantherum chromosomes. A. scribneri and A. latiglume apparently contain closely homologous genomes, as evidenced by good chromosome pairing in their hybrids, which averaged 2.6 I, 12.6 II, and 0.05 III in 147 cells. Although meiosis progressed normally in many cells, these hybrids were also completely sterile. Introgression between any of the parent species seems unlikely.
10.2307/2481761|1. The tree, shrub, and moss layers of the north and south facing slope studied are materially different. 2. The arborescent layer of the south facing slope shows an affinity with the southern oak-hickory forest, while on the north facing slope it exhibits an affinity with the northern-hardwood forest. These trends are further exemplified in individual species reproduction. 3. The shrub layers are comparable to that found by Cantlon (1953) on Cushetunk Mountain, New Jersey. 4. The north facing slope exhibits a higher cover, greater number of species, and a larger number of bryophytic growth forms. Microclimatic differences are reflected both in terms of number of species and variety of bryophytic growth forms.
10.2307/2484122|Botrychium lunarioides (L.) Sw., Ophioglossum nudicaule L.f. var. tenerum Clausen, and Ophioglossum petiolatum Hooker are reported for the first time from Arkansas. Each of these three ferns has been collected in four counties in Arkansas.
10.2307/2484662|Twelve taxa, characteristic of beach vegetation along the Pacific Coast of the United States, were grown from seed and subjected to realistic levels of salt spray (50 mg dm
10.2307/2482951|1. Heterothallic sexual strains of Cosmarium botrytis var. subtumidum Wittr., Cosmarium botrytis var. mediolaeve West, and Cosmarium subcostatum Nordst. var. have now been isolated in clonal cultures. 2. A homothallic strain of Closterium parvulum Naeg. also has been isolated. 3. Methods used in isolating the cultures and in inducing sexual reproduction are described. 4. Light, carbon dioxide, and the composition of the medium are important environmental factors to be considered in inducing the sexual response in cultures of desmids. 5. It is suggested that these factors may also control the sexual response of desmids in nature.
10.2307/2482332|1. A study of a former southern white cedar bog at Secaucus, New Jersey in the Hackensack tidal marsh is presented. The object of this study was to trace the post-Pleistocene history of the bog and also, to learn what factors have acted to destroy the forest. 2. In gaining this end, an investigation was made of the vegetation, the water salinity, and the underlying peat. As a basis for these studies, three transects were run through the bog and the surrounding marshland. At Cheesequake marsh, 30 miles south of Secaucus on Raritan Bay, another transect was run to study the condition of saline tidal water in relation to a thriving forest of white cedar. 3. Zonation is evident in the marsh vegetation surrounding the bog at Secaucus, Spartina, Typha angustifolia-Scirpus olneyi, Scirpus olneyi, and Phragmites zones are present. The vegetation of the bog consists of shrubs and scattered deciduous trees, both living and dead, and herbs which have invaded as a result of fire opening up the community and an increased salinity of the water of the bog. Few of the original plants remain. 4. Results of the salinity tests are not conclusive, but suggest that salinity may be a factor in the elimination of cedar from Secaucus. 5. Peat profiles for the three transects show the influence of a rising sea level on the size of the bog. The relative distribution of marsh and forest peat in the profiles indicates an increasingly more limited extent of the bog at higher levels. Forest peat has been and is being overridden by marsh peat. An angiospermous peat layer is evident at the bottom of the profile. Above this, gymnospermous plant remains are present. 6. The post-glacial history is discussed. Following the recession of the ice, glacial Lake Hackensack covered the area. As the land was uplifted, the lake was drained, and the bottom exposed to invading plants. The peat profile reveals Fraxinus nigra as one of the first forest species preserved. This species did not persist due to the rise in sea level, but was succeeded by Larix laricina and Picea mariana which were favored by the rising water table. These species persisted to the close of the nineteenth century. Chamaecyparis thyoides more recently migrated into the bog. 7. The present day vegetation in the bog is quite different from that described by Torrey in 1819. Ditching and fire are the two major factors which have brought about the rapid decadence of the cedar forest today. The rise of sea level has throughout the history of the bog gradually reduced the size of the bog forest. Aside from human interference, it appears that the ultimate fate of the bog is burial in marsh peat.
10.2307/2482222|The strain of excised tomato roots which has been maintained for 144 passages, each approximately 1 month in length, grew slowly at 15
10.2307/2996696|The shallow soil rock outcrop plant Talinum teretifolium Pursh (Portulacaceae) occurs on granite, sandstone, and serpentine outcrops and T mengesii Wolf occurs on granite and sandstone. Neither species occurs on limestone. In contrast, Talinum calcaricum Ware occurs only on limestone. We wished to determine whether soil type limited the distribution of the more restricted species, and whether the more broadly distributed species was ecotypically adapted to the various soil types. Plants from one or more populations of each species were tested for their ability to grow (measured by mean dry weight) on soils from outcrop types other than their native one. Growth of the limestone endemic T calcaricum was greatly inhibited by acid (sandstone) soil. Growth of the other two species was greatly inhibited on limestone and serpentine soil as compared with granite or sandstone soil, whether the plants came from granite, sandstone, or, in the case of T teretifoluum, serpentine. The serpentine population of T teretifolium showed little evidence of adaptation to serpentine soil; it grew as poorly on serpentine as plants from sandstone and granite, and as well on these latter two soils as plants native to them. However, there was none of the chlorosis on serpentine soil that developed on limestone, so that despite extremely slow growth, T teretifolium remains healthy and can persist in the competition-free shallow soil environment on serpentine.
10.2307/2484623|Respiration of dormant axillary buds of Nicotiana tabacum L, cv. Maryland Catterton, following cytokinin treatment was monitored by O
10.2307/2484818|Gametic chromosome numbers are reported for 24 accessions of 12 species of the tribe Vernonieae from Africa and the New World They are: Stokesia laevis, 7; Vernonia abyssinica, 10; V. adoensis, 10; V. afromontana, 9; V. cordata, ca. 17; V. fruticosa, 17; V. hymenolepis, 10; V. insularis, 17; V. melleri, 10; V. nudiflora, 17; V. patens, 17; V. uniflora ca. 36-39 The available chromosome data for Vernonia are summarized. Some suggestions are made regarding possible cytotaxonomic trends within the Vernonieae.
10.2307/2484395|The pattern of perithecium development in Sordaria fimicola (Rob.) Ces. & de Not. was investigated using three concentrations of corn meal-dextrose agar, three sizes of petri plates, two modes of inoculation of a single, germinated ascospore, and three incubation temperatures. A band of perithecia developed around the plate edge under certain culture conditions, while under other culture conditions a band or circle of perithecia also developed in the central area of the plate. Physical contact with the plate edge was not necessary for protoperithecium development under several culture conditions. There is evidence suggesting that a diffusable perithecium inhibitor is synthesized by developing perithecia.
10.2307/2996084|The most common techniques for quantifyingfine root belowground biomass and production involve procedures which are extremely tedious and disruptive to the site. An alternative and more desirable method to determine these parameters would be the use of a direct non-destructive observation system that collects quantitative data (i.e., root length or planar area) that could predict biomass and biomass change. The objective of this study was to determine if predictive communitylevel allometric relationships between root length, planar area and biomass existed in a coastal barrier island dune ecosystem. Fine root samples were extracted monthly from four dune and swale areas along a chronosequence (6, 24, 36, and 120 years old) on Hog Island, part of the Virginia Coast Reserve-Long Term Ecological Research site. Dominant life forms were rhizomatous perennial grasses on the dunes and in younger swales and shrubs in the older swales. Root planar area in May and August yielded the stronger regression relationships, with winter values exhibiting greater variability. An analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) was used to examine the heterogeneity of regression slopes among sample dates. Both root length and area models exhibited significantly greater slopes during the course of the growing season. The regression slopes for the oldest dune site displayed no significant differences with season for either length or area. Data from the swales produced stronger predictive relationships than the dunes. These results provide a foundation for indirect root biomass estimates in this system.
10.2307/2484897|Cover frequency for the emergent vegetation of three representative sections of a salt marsh is presented. Annual production values are calculated using the ash-free dry weights of a series of harvests of standing live and dead crops, and estimating export or decomposition losses from the standing crops from data on litterbag-losses. Production values are provided for tall and dwarf Spartina alterniflora, S. patens, Distichlis spicata, Juncus Gerardi, Salicornia europaea, Typha angustifolia and Scirpus olneyi, the last two being based on end-of-season harvests only. These species account for from 88 to 96% of the emergent cover of these marsh sections. Salt marsh pool production and cover values are obtained and integrated for 8 months of the year. Such pools comprise from 0 to 26% of the sections studied. These data provide a baseline for studies of energy transfer in this marsh.
10.2307/2482180|1. Methods of using Euglena gracilis var. bacillaris for the bioassay of antipernicious anemia factor (vitamin B
10.2307/2483025|1. Geocarpon is a monotypic endemic genus, its species, G. minimum. having been previously known but from one locality in Jasper County, Missouri. 2. Recent attempts to locate it at the type locality have failed. 3. A second station was discovered during 1957 in St. Clair County. fifty-seven miles (by air) northeast of the original station. 4. Because of the duplication of the particular Pennsylvanian sandstone, upon which the St. Clair County discovery was made, over a relatively wide area, encompassing several other counties, it is believed that the species will eventually be found in such areas of sandstone of similar topographic expression to those where it has already been found. 5. The belief is expressed that the plants have been overlooked by previous botanists, because search has not been made early enough in the year (March to late April) when the plants are evident, and because insufficient botanizing at that time of year on sandstone exposures has been done close to the ground in detail.
10.2307/2484846|Germination and growth characteristics of Parnassia asarifolia Vent. were investigated as the first step in developing management procedures for a high elevation, southern Appalachian population of the species. While some seed will germinate immediately upon dispersal in October the majority is protected from fall germination by a chilling requirement which promotes uniform low-temperature germination in the spring. Observations of seedling growth suggest that the species requires a low temperature, moist, acid medium. Direct seeding in spring using seed given 16 weeks of moist chilling was a succssful establishment procedure on suitable sites.
10.2307/2997074|The dominant species of Cyanophta found in the Musconetcong River in September and October and collecting sites, habitats, and selected physical characteristics of the liver are reported. The association of the midge larva Cricotopus with Nostoc is reviewed.
10.2307/2996256|Red spruce (Picea rubens Sarg.), a potentially long lived (>300 yrs) shade tolerant major forest species of the region, declined by about half in basal area and density in virgin mid to high elevation stands in the Green Mountains of Vermont between 1964 and 1979. The decrease is not logically related to forest successional development and no specific causes have been documented. Diminished growth rates and general low tree vigor in 1981 indicate that the decline is continuing.
10.2307/2483808|Chromosome numbers are reported for 134 collections which represent 91 species belonging to 31 genera. The record for Pereilema is new for this genus as are the counts for the following 32 species: Agrostis rosei, Eragrostis glutinosa, E. intermedia, Erioneuron grandiflorum, Muhlenbergia arizonica, M. articulata, M. brevis, M. ciliata, M. confusa, M. crispiseta, M. filiformis var. fortis, M. flaviseta, M. grandis, M. involuta, M. leptoura, M. montana, M. parviglumis, M. pulcherrima, M. robusta, M. setifolia, M. spiciformis, M. stricta, M. strictior, M. texana, M. vaginata, M. wolfii, Pereilema ciliatum, Sporobolus macrospermus, S. spiciformis, Echinochloa holciformis, Lasiacis sloanei, and Paspalum prostratum. The records of 2n = 40 for Bouteloua scorpioides, 2n = 16 for Eleusine tristachya, 2n = 60 for Eragrostis neomexicana, 2n = 28 and 2n = 22 for Muhlenbergia asperifolia, 2n = 26 for M. lindheimeri, 2n = 40 for M. macrotis, 2n = 28 and 2n = 24 for M. macroura, 2n = 80 for M. minutissima, 2n = 24 for M. porteri, 2n = 30 for M. pubigluma, 2n = 52 for M. reederorum, 2n = 20 for M. reverchonii, 2n = 40, 2n = 20 and 2n = 21 for M. virescens, and 2n = ca. 60 for Tridens albescens are different from any published report for the same taxon. Cytological information on Mexican material of the following nine species: Cottea pappophorioides, Eragrostis neomexicana, Erioneuron pulchellum, Muhlenbergia asperifolia, Scleropogon brevifolius, Spartina spartinae, Tridens albescens, Oplismenus setarius, and Panicum maximum is here presented for the first time.
10.2307/2484835|Growth forms of Opuntia compressa (Salisb.) Macbr. were examined in five different habitats of the Lake Wales Ridge region in Florida. Parameters examined included: plant height, width, and length; number of pads; pad temperatures; plant orientation; and spine density. Height growth was found to be greater and pad production less in habitats where tree canopies were relatively dense. Temperatures within a specific pad were observed to vary as much as 3.5
10.2307/2484776|Observations made in the field reveal that pertinent aspects of the floral biology of Echeandia macrocarpa are absent from the original description (Greenman 1903) and the subsequent synopsis of the genus (Weatherby 1910). The reproductive phenology and flowering strategy are reported here and the anatomy of the inflorescence and individual flower at anthesis is further clarified. The species appears to be protogynous and the seeds are dispersed, albeit poorly, by wind.
10.2307/2484158|Radiocarbon dated assemblages of mosses from late Pleistocene deposits in Wisconsin (11,850 yBP), New York State (12,100 yBP), and Vermont (11,500 yBP) consist mostly of calcicolous species and include aquatics, mesophytes, and xerophytes. Pollen analyses establish the lateglacial woodland or more open physiognomic settings of the assemblages, and macrofossils of mosses provide details about smaller scale habitats and communities. Lowland rich fens (pH 5.8 or higher, calcium at least 0.9 me/l), base-rich seeps and stream margins, and upland areas of dry, mineral soil are indicated. Species of acidic substrata are poorly represented. Mosses of the short turf growth-form dominate the assemblages in terms of species richness, and from this it can be inferred that open conditions and dry, possibly continental, climates prevailed. Assemblage composition and growth-form spectra are similar to those in boreal white spruce stands of western interior North America. The characterization of paleoenvironments provides a way to postulate former distribution patterns which may prove to be evolutionarily and taxonomically important. The fossil mosses imply that calcareous sites and calcicoles were prominent on the lateglacial landscape. Such plants are now rare in the Great Lakes-New England area where they are restricted to sites in which competition with more abundant species of the surrounding forest flora is minimal.
10.2307/2995917|The seasonality of Glomus fasciculatum associated with Bouteloua gracilis and Pascopyrum smithii was contrasted in the field, as well as the effects of this vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal (VAM) fungus on physiological parameters of these grasses in the greenhouse Arbuscule formation was earlier in P smithii, which has C
10.2307/2484819|Asiatic plants of Spiraea betulifolia Pallas (Rosaceae) may be distinguished from American ones by densely white-setose inner hypanthium walls. Spiraea betulifolia var. aemiliana (Schneid.) Koidz., of Hokkaido, Japan, has broad-based leaves with impressed veinlets. Spiraea betulifolia var. betulifolia, of eastern Asia, has cuneate leaves which are evenly crenate-serrate all around. Spiraea betulifolia var. lucida (Dougl.) C. L. Hitchc., of western North America, is virtually glabrous, has decurrent leaf bases, and flat-topped corymbs. Spiraea betulifolia var. corymbosa (Raf.) Maxim., of the southeastern United States, is more or less pubescent, has rounded leaf bases, and dome-shaped corymbs.
10.2307/2483802|Scenedesmus protuberans, isolated from an Austin, Texas, pond, was grown in laboratory culture in 4-week studies in 3 defined media. The organism typically produced 2-celled or 4-celled colonies with 4 long corner spines. Apical openings, which could be confused with short spines, were the site of bristle insertion. Delicate membranes were observed connecting cell apices in most colonies. Unicells were not produced in media useful for unicell production with other Scenedesmus species.
10.2307/2484432|Seed from a western North Carolina population of Gentiana crinita Frol. required 12 weeks of moist storage at 3 C (i.e., stratification) for rapid complete germination at 16-24 C. Approximately 50 percent of freshly collected seed germinated at 7-16 C but developed dormancy when subsequently stored dry at 3 C. Germination at a higher temperature (24-29 C) was never over 50 percent, regardless of chilling, and the seed had a light requirement, which was reduced by stratification. Under a greenhouse temperature of 16-24 C, early growth was more rapid at a soil temperature of 19 C than at 13 or 27 C. Container stock was successfully transplanted to a streamside site where the life cycle was completed.
10.2307/2997143|1. The spikelets are one-flowered and have 2 glumes, a lemma, and a palea, two lodicules, three stamens and the ovary. 2. Microsporogenesis is normal and of the successive type. The pollen grains are three-celled at shedding. 3. Meiosis in the megaspore mother cell results in a linear tetrad of spores. The embryo sac is of the Polygonum type. An antipodal complex of coenocytic cells is formed. Abnormalities like the formation of an antipodal embryo, supernumerary polar nuclei and twin embryo sacs have been observed. 4. Fertilization and embryogeny have been studied. 5. The endosperm is of the nuclear type. Frequently involutions of the aleurone layer occur at several points on the surface of the endosperm. The involuted aleurone is meristematic. Small islands of starch-filled endosperm cells ensheathed by aleurone are cut off towards the distal end of the kernel. This accounts for 'lobing' of the endosperm. 6. The protective layers of the mature caryopsis consist of the suberised nucellar epidermis forming the perisperm, the insertion region of the inner integument and the pericarp.
10.2307/2484216|Ways in which the distribution of flavonoids in ferns and fern allies has increased our understanding of their phylogenetic and taxonomic relationships is reviewed. The ecological role of these and related compounds in ferns is emphasized and recent studies on the importance of these compounds in allelopathy, predation and disease are discussed.
10.2307/2997023|A distinction in vascular morphology, which is helpful in distinguishing between panicoid and non-panicoid florets, is exemplified by serial transections of a spikelet of Panicum. Each trace from the fertile palea descends the flanks of the rachilla without joining the vascular tissue from the flower, the median trace of the fertile lemma, nor the other palea trace. The only union of the palea trace with another trace during descent is that with some laterals from the lemma. This distinct descent of the palea trace in the Panicoideae contrasts with the mergers of the palea traces with the vasculature from the flower and the floret that characterize the other subfamilies.
10.2307/2481824|1. A single hypodermal cell is differentiated as an archesporial cell in Solanum demissum. This functions directly as the megaspore mother cell. 2. A linear row of four megaspores is formed, the chalazal spore develops into an eight-nucleate, seven-celled megagametophyte; the other megaspores disintegrate. 3. Double fertilization occurs between 24-48 hours after self pollination. The endosperm cells divide rapidly forming large highly vacuolate cells. 4. Division of the zygote occurs when the endosperm consists of about thirty-two cells. Successive transverse divisions of the proembryo follow resulting in a linear row of eight cells. An embryo with hypocotyl, two lateral cotyledons and terminal epicotyl is formed from the four apical cells. The four basal cells of the proembryo undergo some further transverse divisions to form the suspensor. 5. A restricted pollen tube growth and failure of fertilization occurs following the cross S. demissum x S. polyadenium. 6. Partial sterility following the crosses S. demissum x S. gibberulosum, S. demissum x S. tarijense and S. demissum x S. Schickii occurs. 7. Double fertilization although somewhat delayed in comparison to S. demissum selfed, occurs in each instance. 8. Hybrid endosperm cells grow slowly and following successive divisions the cells become smaller. 9. Division of the zygote is delayed and the embryo seldom develops beyond a relatively few celled stage. 10. The cells of the endothelium proliferate producing large outgrowths which extend into the region occupied by the endosperm. 11. A large quantity of starch is present in the placenta and in the integuments of developing normal and hybrid seeds. 12. Collapse of some of the hybrid seed is due to the inability of the endosperm to absorb and in turn to supply these materials to the embryo. The retardation of the development of the endosperm is associated with the hyperplastic growth of the cells of the endothelium.
10.2307/2484430|Structural reduction of the female thallose gametophyte is documented in Metzgeria decipiens and M. foliicola, the midribs of which possess only a single medullary cell in cross-section, or are further reduced to only sporadic appearance in the thallus. This structure marks an ultimate end of a reductional series of the gametophyte in the Metzgeriaceae. Similar reductions of the midrib are noted in other species with smaller gametophytes in the genus Metzgeria.
10.2307/2484378|Agrostis hiemalis, a perennial cool-season prairie grass, has two dispersal modes: a stationary phase in which seeds fall from the panicle and a tumbling phase in which the culm breaks and the panicle rolls in the wind, dispersing seeds over greater distances. A. hiemalis is the earliest native grass to set seed at Tucker Prairie, Missouri, and disperses during June, when the grass canopy is low and when wind speeds are higher than during other months of the growing season. About half of the 528  49 (x s.e.) seeds fall from the panicle during each dispersal phase. During the stationary phase, 50% of the seeds fall within 0.46 m of the parent; 95% fall within 2.00 m. During tumble dispersal, with wind speed averaging 15 km/hr, a panicle travels 1.38 m (geometric mean; one standard error, 1.36 to 1.41) or 2.22  0.34 m (x s.e.) before becoming entangled in vegetation. 95% of the panicles fall with 9 m. The total seed rain for both dispersal modes is 240 seeds/m
10.2307/2483512|Detailed descriptions of Clavaria pinicola Burr and C. stillingeri Coker are given, and the two species synonymized under C. pinicola, which is transferred as Ramaria pinicola (Burt) Pet., comb. nov. Ramaria pinicola var. robusta Pet., var. nov. is described, and the probable close phylogenetic relationship between the Stricta group of Ramaria, Lentaria pro parte, and the R. pinicola complex is discussed.
10.2307/2483689|Exogenous growth factor supplements have no obvious effect on the induction of callus proliferation from anthers of Nicotiana or Lycopersicon; however the concentration of sucrose in the medium plays a major role in the determination of morphogenetic potencies. Increasing sucrose concentrations in Nicotiana give a progression from roots, through plantlets, to abnormal plantlets and callus, while in Lycopersicon increasing levels of sucrose only effect cell proliferation. Stable karyotype-verified haploid callus from diploid Lycopersicon has been maintained for 7 months, diploid lines from tetraploid Lycopersicon for 8 weeks. The transfer to a low sucrose medium of cells initiated from anthers cultured on high sucrose medium provides an effective mode of morphogenetic induction resulting in roots in Lycopersicon and plantlets in Nicotiana.
10.2307/2483612|The flowers of Trichodesma amplexicaule are tetramerous to hexamerous and develop in acropetal succession. Microsporogenesis proceeds in the usual way. The tapetum is glandular and its cells become multinucleate. The nuclei may fuse to form one or two amoeboid nuclei. Divisions in the spore mother cells are simultaneous. Mature pollen grains are spherical, tricolpate and shed at the two nucleate stage. The ovules are anatropous, unitegmic and tenuinucellate, since the megaspore mother cell is directly below the epidermis. A single vascular bundle enters the funiculus and branches a few times in the integument. The archesporial cell directly functions as the megaspore mother cell. The chalazal megaspore of the linear tetrad is functional. Embryo sac development conforms to the Polygonum type. The polar nuclei fuse to form the secondary nucleus, prior to triple fusion. The three antipodal cells are ephemeral. Endosperm development conforms to the Borago type. The suspensor is formed by the derivatives of the basal cell. Both the basal and the terminal cells contribute to the formation of the embryo. Embryogeny conforms to the Asterad type-Polygonum variation. The inner wall of the testa is lined by two layers of endosperm. Outer and inner pericarp layers are cutinized while the middle region is resiniferous. Features like polyembryony, exembryonal seeds, aggregation of more than two nuclei in the region of the polars and occurrence of two celled archesporium in the ovule have been observed.
10.2307/2484682|An impression of a dorsiventral non-vascular plant (alga or liverwort) is described from an ironstone nodule from the Francis Creek Shale Member, Carbondale Formation, middle Pennsylvanian, from the Pit 11 source of the Mazon Creek flora and fauna of Illinois. The thallus exhibits five dichotomies along a length of seven cm., a distinct midrib up to 0.5 mm wide, and a total width of 5.5-8.1 mm, with undulate margins. Lack of definitive epidermal characters places the thallus in Thallites, in which it is the basis of a new species, T. dichopleurus. This is the first report of a thalloid plant from the Mazon Creek flora, and both its morphology and depositional provenance leave open the question of algal or bryophytic affinities
10.2307/2483775|Lichens exposed to ambient fluoride at 4  g F/m
10.2307/2482657|1. One hundred thermophilic actinomycetes were isolated and obtained in pure culture. Methods are described for the maintenance and cultivation of these organisms, and for the controlled study of their nutritional requirements and growth-temperature relationships. The exoenzyme responses to varying nutritional environments and morphological characteristics are discussed. 2. Synthetic media were developed for 85 of the isolates and the minimal nutritional requirements of two isolates were determined. 3. One isolate identified as Thermoactinomyces vulgaris was studied to ascertain the growth-temperature relationship. Growth followed first order kinetics. The Arrhenius temperature characteristic () was estimated to be 33 kcal.
10.2307/2484576|Several species, all occurring on wet or water-soaked wood, belonging to the genera Iodophanus and Thecotheus, have been described in the genus Psilopezia. They are: Psilopezia aurantiaca, P. aurantiaca subsp. xylogena, P. aquatica, and P. rivicola. Taxonomic and nomenclatural studies of these species support the proposal of Thecotheus rivicola as a new combination.
10.2307/2484289|The upland forest is dominated by Quercus borealis var. maxima, Q. velutina, and Q. alba; Prunus avium and Betula lenta are of lesser importance. Cornus florida forms a distinct sub-canopy layer. Viburnum acerifolum, with Rubus allegheniensis and Sassafras albidum dominate a shrub layer 1 to 3 m high. Aster divaricatus, Rubus allegheniensis, Smilacina racemosa, and a few Gramineae dominate the ground layer 0 to 1 m high. The stand is classified as Oak, Mixed Dicot-Dogwood forest. When, in order to assess the effects of topography on the distribution of trees, flat uplands (0-5% slope) are distinguished from slopes (>5% slope), slopes are found to have the greater number of stems/hectare, the greater importance values of Cornus florida, Prunus avium and Carya spp., but the lower importance values of Quercus spp. Samples of the shrub layer show that total cover is greater on flat uplands than on slopes. The ground layer beneath these shrubs shows greater floristic richness on flat uplands than on slopes.
10.2307/2995896|Employing chromatographic and spectrophotometric methods, floral anthocyanins of Aquilegia species were identified Major pigments proved to be acylated 3-monoglucosides and 3,5-diglucosides of delphinidin, pelargonidin, and cyanidin. The acyl component was tentatively identified as ferulic acid Non-acylated forms of these pigments were also isolated, though perhaps as hydrolysis products. The infrequently reported 3-xylosylglucoside-5-glucosides of delphinidin and pelargonidin were isolated from floral extracts of A alpina and A formosa respectively Based on anthocyanin (and carotenoid) profiles, representative species were grouped into four alliances: Alpina-Sibirica, Vulgaris-Flabellata, Caerulea-Longissima, Canadensis-Formosa. The naturalness of these groups is suggested by their similarity to species alliances derived using other characters Finally, the relationship between floral pigmentation and regionally available pollinators is described as a classical example of coadaptation
10.2307/2483973|A new Penstemon, P. pudicus is described from the Kawich Range, Nye Co., Nevada. A member of section Saccanthera, the entity may be distinguished by its long flowers, bearded staminode, glabrous leaves and anthers, and spreading habit. A new Grindelia, G. fraxino-pratensis is described from the Ash Meadows area of Nye Co., Nevada (extending into adjacent Inyo Co., California). It may be distinguished by erect or curved phyllaries, mostly entire to slightly dentate leaves (only at the apex), short ray lamina and resinous-punctate heibage.
10.2307/2484310|Hypoxis longii was found in a pine forest in southeastern Oklahoma. This location is at the northwestern extent of the old Gulf Coastal Plain and is about 1000 air miles southwest of its previously known location near Rudy Inlet, Virginia.
10.2307/2482856|The usage of two alternative spellings-Prunella and Brunella-in Linnaean and pre-Linnaean works has been reviewed. It seems best to accept the spelling Prunella as given in the first edition of Linnaeus' Species Plantarum. This name was derived from the German die Braune referring either to a disease against which Prunella was once employed or to the brown color of dried inflorescences of the plant.
10.2307/2483835|In western North America eight species in the genus Homalothecium are recognized, seven of which are endemic. A key to these species is provided, together with descriptions and notes on geographical distribution. Each species is fully illustrated. Camptothecium amesiae, Camptothecium alsioides, and a number of varieties are reduced to synonymy.
10.2307/2996337|Myrmecochory, the dispersal of seeds by ants, has been reported for a variety of woodland herbs from the eastern deciduous forest. Observations of fruiting specimens of Epigaea repens indicate seeds of this species are also ant dispersed. The seeds have no elaiosomes, rather they are embedded in the sweet, jelly-like placental tissue that fills the fruit. Seeds are dispersed as ants carry away the placental tissue. The trailing arbutus differs from previously reported eastern woodland myrmecochores in that it is woody and it is a member of the Ericaceae, a family from which myrmecochory has not been previously reported.
10.2307/2483431|Nine years after burning of a 35-year loblolly pine stand, effects of ground and crown fire on community structure were studied. Twenty years later it was resurveyed using identical methods. Development of the unburned portion was typical for the area with considerable self-thinning and the appearance of subordinate oak and hickory. The ground fire originally produced few noticeable effects but after 20 years there was a marked decline of relative BA, much more self-thinning and a greater number of hardwoods than in the unburned area. The crown fire initially almost eliminated pine in all strata and hardwoods from sprouts and seed came in so abundantly that hardwood-pine dominance seemed a safe prediction. Instead, many hardwood sprouts died and pine attaining transgressive sizes so outgrew the hardwoods that after 20 years the dominant stratum was predominantly pine.
10.2307/2482766|1. Elymus macounii Vasey is the basionym of X Agrohordeum macounii (Vasey) Lepage (Agropyron trachycaulum x Hordeum jubatum). 2. The type locality of E. macounii was originally given by Vasey as "Great Plains of British America." This has been misinterpreted to mean "British Columbia" but the type locality is from an area that is now part of the province of Saskatchewan. 3. Macoun specimens of this taxon were examined from three herbaria and a lectotype (with duplicates) and paratypes are cited. 4. The natural and artificial F
10.2307/2484160|Field observations and experiments were conducted in central Illinois to examine the evolution of floral display and limits to fruit production in pawpaw. Despite a large flower output, only 0.4% of all flowers (n = 19,095) and 15% of all stems (n = 286) produced fruit in 1976. The fruiting success of hand-pollinated flowers (4% in 1977; 17% in 1978) was much greater than that of open-pollinated flowers (0.41% in 1976; 0.63% in 1978), demonstrating that fruit production in our area was pollen-limited. We observed a significant, positive correlation between fruit/stem and stem diameter in some sites, and fruiting stems were significantly larger than flowering stems. This, and an economy of pulp production in many-seeded fruits, suggests that fruit production may sometimes be resource limited. Furthermore, large, sunlit stems bore flowers with a higher ratio of female:male parts than small, shaded stems, a response that might also be adaptive in a resource-limited system.
10.2307/2481916|Observations were made on the reduction zones in stem tissues of vascular plants. Apical meristems of terminal and lateral buds of deciduous trees were reducing zones for tetrazolium. Lateral meristems reducing tetrazolium included cork cambium, vascular cambium, and inner and outer cortical regions. Intercalary meristems, found at the bases of the leaves of many monocotyledons, reduced tetrazolium. Reduction zones in root tissues were observed. Actively growing root tips of all the plants surveyed showed some degree of reducing activity. Inner and outer cortical reduction regions were observed in meristematic root tip tissue. These zones have not been observed before, and they indicate cortical meristems that have not been described to date. Plants possessing a tetrarch root system reduced tetrazolium in a tetrapolar pattern which corresponded to the pattern of secondary root formation. This reduction, in the pericycle and cortical cells, was in a stage of development which would preclude the possibility of secondary root formation. Reduction zones in seed embryos were observed. Generally the entire embryo was stained, with the plumule and the radicle the sites of the most intense reactions. In some cases spurious results were observed as a result of tetrazolium reduction by microorganisms. Experimental wounding of plant tissues did not reveal, by tetrazolium reduction, the presence of a wound meristem. However, it was noted that if an Allium cepa L. root tip was subdivided into several segments, reduction would occur at the stimulated ends of each segment.
10.2307/2482260|1. Experiments are here reported in which transpiration and water absorption by plants treated with variable concentrations of ethereal oils were carried out. 2. Some of the plants studied were chosen from the groups that naturally secrete ethereal oils. These were Eucalyptus rostrata Schlecht., and Schinus terebinthifolius Raddi. For the sake of comparison, Alhabi maurorum Medic., which does not naturally secrete such oils, was also studied. 3. Eucalyptus and peppermint oils were used. 4. On applying ethereal oil vapors at concentrations within approximately the natural range, water-absorption by the treated samples was not appreciably affected, but water loss from such samples was retarded. This retardation was reversible and was believed to be due in the main to : a. Reduction of the diffusion of water vapor from the leaves b. Reduction of the transmitting power of the surrounding atmosphere for thermal radiations This would be associated with a reduction of vapor pressure gradient between the leaf and atmosphere. c. Reduction of permeability of plant tissues to water vapor. 5. Still higher concentrations of oil vapors had more striking effects. The change in the rate of water loss did not follow those changes in the rate of water absorption. Whereas the treated plants had a progressively falling rate of water absorption, yet they exhihited an increasing water-loss. The latter remained high at the expense of the moisture-content of the plant tissues, but eventually decreased to a low value Absorption was shown to be a vital process dependent on the healthiness of the treated plants. 6. The effects of some doses of chloroform upon water absorption was found to be similar to those of ethereal oils
10.2307/2996641|The circumscription, taxonomic history, and morphological characteristics of the genus Turbina Raf. are reviewed. The Old World taxa of Turbina are summarized. Four species of Turbina have heretofore been known in the New World; a new species from lower Amazonian Brazil, T. amazonica, is described, the neotropical species are revised and a key is provided for them.
10.2307/2482628|1. Several fungi including Chytriomyces verrucosus Karling sp. nov., Rozella rhizophydii, Olpidiopsis karlingiae and Pythium proliferum were found as parasites on and in the sporangia of Karlingia rosea. Pythium proliferum in turn was densely parasitized by Woronina pythii, a member of the Plasmodiophoraceae. 2. Chytriomyces verrucosus Karling is characterized by small, hyaline, smooth, obpyriform, subspherical, spherical, urceolate, subclavate epibiotic sporangia, sparse endobiotic rhizoids, minute spherical, posteriorly uniflagellate zoospores, and small amber to brown tuberculate or verrucose resting spores which function as prosporangia in germination. 3. Phlyctochytrium synchytrii occurred as a parasite on the resting spores of Synchytrium pilificum, and this is the first report of its occurrence in America.
10.2307/2482019|1. In the two species of Lacunaria investigated, the early leaves of the seedlings are deeply pinnatifid and quite unlike the simple adult-type of foliage leaf which occurs in all species of this genus. 2. The transition from the pinnatifid to the simple type of leaf consists in the reduction and ultimate suppression of lateral lobes. This is accompanied by a conspicuous increase in the number of secondary veins; these additional veins arise in the terminal and basal regions of the leaves. 3. Tertiary veins, variable in number and degree of development, occur in the lateral lobes of many of the pinnatifid leaves studied. Concomitant with the reduction of the lateral lobes, these tertiary veins disappear and cannot be identified in the lamina of adult leaves. 4. The minor venation of seedling and transition-form leaves consists of two categories of "veinlets," true conducting strands consisting of fiber and tracheary elements and "false veinlets" which are composed wholly of fibers. Most of the true veinlets are unbranched; a low percentage of them dichotomize, one shank commonly ending blindly in the mesophyll the other uniting with the tracheids or fibers of the marginal vein. 5. In the adult leaf, the minor venation consists of extensively anastomosed and dichotomously-branched true veinlets and abundant fiberstrands. One of the most distinctive features of the intercostal reticulum is the erratic occurrence of areas characterized by an abrupt change in the course and in the width of spacing of the veinlets. The term "idiodrome" is proposed to designate an area of this type. A description of various types of marginal and submarginal idiodromes is given and the occurrence of idiodromes in the leaves of a number of species of Lacunaria is recorded.
10.2307/2996163|We examined the effects of pollen addition and raceme density on fruit set in seven isolated patches of Maianthemum canadense Desf (Liliaceae; False Lily-of-the-Valley) in central New Jersey. We removed racemes from two of four quadrants in each patch to create distinct high and low density sectors. We hand pollinated all the racemes in four 1-m quadrats (1/quadrant) within each patch, and compared fruit set in these quadrats with fruit set in eight naturally pollinated control quadrats (2/quadrant). We recorded the percentage of racemes that bore fruit and the mean number of fruits/infructescence in each quadrat, and analyzed these data with three-factor analyses of variance (patch, density, and pollination-treatment effects). There was a significant effect of pollen addition on fruit set. In four patches, hand pollination significantly increased both the percent of racemes that bore fruit and the number of fruits/infructescence. We conclude that fruit set in these patches of M. canadense was pollen limited. A previous study reported that fruit set in M. canadense was resource limited, but our results suggest that fruit set in different patches may be limited by different factors. The clonal architecture of a patch and the relatedness and distance between mating plants may influence these patterns. There were no significant density effects, in any patch, on fruit set in hand pollinated or naturally pollinated quadrats. Although this suggests that plant density (and inferentially, competition for resources) did not limit fruit set, clonal growth patterns may confound this conclusion.
10.2307/2483042|The transfer of definitive nucleolar bodies from the nucleus to specific cytoplasmic bodies (nucleocytoplasmic interaction) first observed in lemon fruit tissue proliferating in vitro was examined in tissue obtained from exocortis virus-infected and exocortis-free plants, respectively. No apparent cytological differences of this interaction could be seen between growing matrial from virusinfected and virus-free plants. Although initially observed in growing material from the genus Citrus, the same nucleo-cytoplasmic interaction was observed in three additional genera of higher plants. Consequently, the evidence presented in this investigation suggests the possibility that this innate cellular phenomenon may occur rather extensively in plant genera other than those described here.
10.2307/2484715|Species richness was greatest in the epiphyte and bryoid layers and decreased monotonically from the bryoid layer through higher vascular strata. Species equitability was approximately the same for all layers. Beta diversity paralleled species richness for all layers except for epiphytes, which had high alpha diversity but low beta diversity. Differences in species diversity between layers may be related to differences in the degree of environmental differentiation at the level of each structural group. The influence of forest structure on diversity through time was inferred from samples of 31-300+ year old stands. Tree species richness is relatively stable through time while numbers of herb species are highly variable but tend to fall with canopy closure by shade tolerant trees and rise with gap formation. Epiphytes are slow to invade but maintain high diversity once established. Species richness in the shrub and bryoid layers remains relatively constant.
10.2307/2996282|In 1926 all trees (10.2 cm dbh) were permanently tagged and mapped in a 20.6 hectare, mature tract of timber in Randolph County, Indiana. The central 8.5 hectares were resurveyed in 1976. The relative basal area and relative density of Ulmus americana, American elm, in 1926 were 4.2% and 12.9%, respectively, for an importance value ((relative density + relative basal area) 2) of 8.6. By 1976, 94.5% (172 individuals) of the tagged U. americana were dead, but 633 individuals were recorded for an importance value of 14.1. Species (and percent of total 440 ingrowth trees 10 cm dbh) which grew into the gaps created by dead American elm were Ulmus americana (24%), Acer saccharum (15%), Celtis occidentalis (9%), Carya ovata (9%), Aesculus glabra (7%), Fraxinus americana (6%), Fagus grandifolia (4%), and other species (26%). Although Dutch elm disease and elm yellows (phloem necrosis) have killed most American elms that existed in the initial survey, elm density had increased three-fold by 1976. Early reproductive maturity and shade tolerance has allowed U. americana to persist, although its presence is restricted to smaller diameter individuals.
10.2307/2483492|Hybridization experiments in Ruellia demonstrated that the distinctive R. noctiflora is closely related genetically to the widespread Appalachian R. caroliniensis, although intersterile with other eastern species in the United States. Fertile, vigorous F
10.2307/2482818|1. This study describes the life cycle of Myriophyllum spicatum L., a serious weed control problem at Lake Musconetcong, New Jersey. 2. Density is determined primarily by substratum particle size and secondarily by depth (light) and temperature (ooze, shallowness and warmth favoring luxuriance). Affinities are for alkaline situations; high acidity is limiting. The species is basic in the economy of Lake Musconetcong because of its abundance. It determines the daily pH cycle and aids in maintaining a high pH. It provides support for the organisms which comprise the base of the food chain: Aufwuchs and tychoplankton. 3. M. spicatum vegetates perennially and flowers during late summer. Pre-seasonal blooming occurs to some extent at the beginning of the summer, but viable fruits are not reproduced. Flowering begins in the shallow, protected coves and extends out into open water as the season progresses. About 57 percent of all stems in the shallow areas and 33 percent in open water flower annually. The fruits drop from the plants in the several months following flowering. Growth and reproduction by fragmentation occur throughout the winter months. Toward early spring, small axillary buds are produced which abscise and germinate into independent plants. There is also considerable sprouting in spring from rhizomes. This and the new growth from small buds are the most significant means of vernal revegetation. 4. Germination is delayed, but a number of conditioning treatments including freezing and drying induce fairly prompt activity. The stony endocarps inhibit germination, and the conditioning treatments presumably decrease their effectiveness in this capacity. Accidental freezing or drying of seed in nature increases the capacity to germinate with the return of favorable conditions. Generally, at least 80-90 percent of achenes produced are viable, and they may remain so for a decade or more. There are very few seed predators. Evidence suggested that achenes ingested by fishes or waterfowl would become more viable instead of being digested. The stony endocarp is essential to the proper germination of the embryo, serving to force the radical through the micropyle. Dispersal of seed within a drainage system occurs by normal downstream carriage of single achenes, and movement of achenes still attached to sexual spikes or frozen into ice. Dispersal to other drainages proceeds in the digestive tracts of waterfowl. 5. Seedlings are very vulnerable to predation and shading. Also, they must effect rapid ecesis. A response favoring the latter is the increased growth of hypocotyl and cotyledons at the expense of epicotyl development in the absence of soil. This indicates considerable plasticity regarding adaptability. 6. The primary root of the seedling serves only for initial attachment following which it aborts. The definitive root system is developed adventitiously. Mechanical support of the stem is provided by the leaves (although the stems themselves are about the same specific gravity as water). The lower leaves are either naturally caducous or shaded out as the plants mature. 7. Sexual reproduction is not significant in the present ecology of Lake Musconetcong in producing new plant material. But continuance of the species is assured by the presence of these very tolerant propagules. The sexual spike emerges from the water by a combination of factors: Increased floatability of the spike produced by its swelling, curvature at the base of the spike in conjunction with the counter-thrust of the stem beneath, and increased rigidity of the spike allowing it to remain erected into the atmosphere. Self-pollination is limited by protogynous dichogamy. Pollination is aerial, somewhat entomophilous, but mostly anemophilous. 8. The production of all new material of M. spicatum in Lake Musconetcong occurs asexually by fragmentation and abscission of vegetative parts (including the small, turion-like buds of spring), and by adventitious sprouting from rhizomes. Even dispersal of the species to other drainage systems is partially achieved in this stage by the adherence of the small, slime-covered spring buds to the feet and plumage of birds. Most dispersal within the drainage is achieved by the downstream movement of floating fragments.
10.2307/2997145|1. The cell shapes of mature epidermal cells in the roots of Phleum pratense were determined for 200 cells. 2. These 200 cells consisted of 100 pairs of trichoblastic or distal cells and non-trichoblastic or proximal cells. 3. The distal cells were found to average 9.44 facets, while the proximal cells averaged 11.46 facets. Pentagonal, quadrilateral, and hexagonal facets were most abundant in that order among both the distal and proximal cells. 4. The distal cells occurred in 27 combinations; the proximals, in 40 combinations. 5. The commonest combination among the distal cells was: 4 quadrilaterals, 4 pentagonals. 6. In the proximal group the commonest combination was: 3 quadrilaterals, 6 pentagonals, 2 hexagonals. 7. Correlation of the results obtained here with those of a preceding study indicates that the cells of the subepidermal tissue continue to divide after divisions have ceased in the epidermal layer. 8. In addition, the earlier work together with the present study indicates a trend existing throughout the meristem for the epidermal cells to divide unequally with the cell plate displaced to the distal end of the cells. This trend reaches its maximum extent during the last division. 9. It appears that, except as influenced by the obvious restrictions present in this tissue, cell shape is here influenced by a complex network of partially unknown interacting physicochemical factors.
10.2307/2484364|A disjunct population of Liatris mucronata DC. has been discovered in Grayson County in west-central Kentucky. This is the first report of L. mucronata from Kentucky and represents a significant range extension eastward for the species.
10.2307/2996343|On 23 March 1982 a second Arkansas station for Geocarpon minimum was discovered in Cleveland Co. Discovery of the species on this site indicates that it should be looked for in still other areas where Lafe soils have been mapped.
10.2307/2995934|There are two widely-recognized cypress taxa in the southeastern United States, baldcypress (Taxodium distichum (L.) Rich.) and pondcypress (T. ascendens Brongn.). From measurements made on trees growing on the Savannah River Plant in South Carolina, morphological differences between the two types of cypress were found. Pondcypress have narrower crowns and are taller at a given diameter than baldcypress. In the distal 15 cm of branches, pondcypress have approximately twice as many branchlets as baldcypress. These branchlets average 63% longer and weigh cumulatively three times as much as those of baldcypress. Pondcypress allocate a lower per cent of aboveground biomass to branches, resulting in a more open crown. This, in turn, permits greater light penetration through the crown. They also retain a relatively greater proportion of their total foliar biomass in the interior portions of the crown. Pondcypress also have a higher leaf area ratio than baldcypress (2.60 versus 1.60 m
10.2307/2483838|Ovaries in floral buds of Ruellia caroliniensis from Florida were found to contain tenuinucellate, anatropous ovules with massive integuments. Megaspore mother cells produced linear tetrads of four different sized megaspores. Development of the chalazal megaspore was found to be of the "Polygonum" type. Antipodal and synergid nuclei degenerated soon after they were produced. Polar nuclei fused near the micropylar end of the embryo sac. Thus, at fertilization the megagametophyte consisted only of an egg cell and a large secondary nucleus.
10.2307/2484536|A taxonomic treatment is presented for the recognized species of Scutia Brongn., with keys, synonymies, descriptions, typifications and range-maps. A key is provided by which Scutia can be distinguished from related geneia. The five species are grouped into 2 sections. Sect. Scutia has a single species in the Old World Tropics. Sect. Orthocantha (Weberb) Suess. with four South American species includes S. colombiana M. C. Johnst., sp. nov. from Colombia. The plants of the Galapagos Islands are treated as S. spicata var. pauciflora (Hook. f.) M. C. Johnst., comb. nov. based on Discaria pauciflora Hook. f.
10.2307/2484028|Specimens of Palaeostachya decacnema from Kansas coal balls are described yielding new information on the structure of this cone. The cone axis has a solid pith and an aerenchymatous cortex. The stele can be either four- or five-lobed and the number of sporangiophores correspondingly eight or ten. Bract number is 14 or 16; none of the specimens exhibited 20 as in the syntypes. The anatomy of the bract is described and an emended diagnosis is presented. Variability seems to be a consistent characteristic of most calamite cones.
10.2307/2996290|Pollen shed from five isolated eastern hemlock trees [Tsuga canadensis (L.) Carr] in Tuxedo Park, New York was collected by moss polsters and by water-filled plastic cups set out during anthesis. The numbers of hemlock pollen grains per cm
10.2307/2996881|Langsdorffia hypogaea Martius consists of a vegetative body, called a tuber, and inflorescences. The tuber is wide at regions that are close to the tuber/host root junction, and becomes cylindrical and branched, bearing inflorescences at branch ends. On the tuber, there are no detectable apical meristems, leaves or roots. Although there are no stomata, the tuber surface appears to be a true epidermis with regularly arranged ordinary cells. Trichomes densely cover the tuber branches and become broken as the branches enlarge in diameter, which causes the tuber surface to stretch, tear and expose underlying tissues. Brachysclereids are scattered within the tuber, being especially abundant in a band below the surface. There are two types of vascular systems in the tuber: composite bundles which consist of both host and Langsdorffia tissues, and bundles which consist of only Langsdorffia vascular tissues. Composite bundles consist of host vascular tissues, large transfer cells within the xylem, and a sheath of parenchyma. Nuclei of transfer cells and parenchymatous sheath cells are characteristic of Langsdorffia: large and heterochromatic, whereas nuclei of the vascular tissues are characteristic of the host: small and lightly stained. The composite bundles extend from the host root into only the broader parts of the tuber, but the purely Langsdorffia vascular bundles occur as a eustele and extend to the ends of tuber branches. These two vascular systems form complex, integrated networks. The purely Langsdorffia vascular bundles do not have direct contact with host vascular tissues as occurs in Helosis and Ombrophytum, two other genera of Balanophoraceae; instead, they connect with Langsdorffia tracheary elements that differentiate in the sheath of the composite bundles. Tuber growth consists of 1) increase of tuber diameter, 2) extension and ramification of branches, and 3) growth of composite bundles. Tuber diameter is increased by growth regions inside the sclereid band. Although there were no densely cytoplasmic meristematic regions at the ends of tuber branches, the eustelic organization of vascular bundles indicates there should have been meristems; they may have disorganized before we collected our plant. In composite bundles, host vascular tissues can undergo secondary growth. In addition, composite bundles have their own apical meristems, which grow intrusively into tuber ground matrix toward the tuber periphery and branch ends. The composite bundle apex is composed of two types of cells: one is large, with heterochromatic nuclei (Langsdorffia cells); the other is small, with euchromatic nuclei (host cells). It is unlikely that two meristematic groups grow as coordinately as we observed in the composite bundle apices without one displacing the other out of the apex. We suggest that, at the composite bundle apex, large Langsdorffia cells divide and intrude into the host meristematic region, resulting a "chimeral" apex.
10.2307/2484046|The interaction of temperature of incubation and nutritional environment on the production of four exoenyzmes and an antibiotic complex is shown. Representatives of three genera of thermophilic Eumycophyta (Humicola, Thermoascus and Aspergillus) were studied. Amylase production requires induction by a starch-containing medium. Media lacking organic nitrogen encourage production of nitrate reductase. The nutritional environment critically affected the production of amylase, caseinase, nitrate reductace lipase, and specific components of an antibiotic complex, but only at specific temperatures of incubation.
10.2307/2484526|A source list of the vascular plants is presented for use by botanists in the northeastern United States. Included are 256 taxa, representing 148 herbs (43 monocots and 105 dicots), 22 ferns and fern allies, 42 shrubs, and 44 trees. Excluded, as much as possible, are species of the early gap phase stages in forest regeneration. The perennial nature of the herb flora is illustrated by the list of herbs which covers 136 perennials, 4 annuals, 4 biennials, 1 annual or biennial, 1 biennial or short-lived perennial (rarely apparently annual), and 3 annuals or perennials (genus data only). The list was prepared from 106,840 individual taxonomic determinations on material to a great extent in the vegetative state.
10.2307/2483329|A discriminant function based on leaf morphology was used to separate seedling rock chestnut oak, Q. prinus, and white oak, Q. alba. The values of the function were calculated for the progeny of a putative hybrid Q. x saulii growing in a mixed stand of the parental species and the frequency distribution was compared with that of the parents. It was concluded that Q. x saulii backcrosses to both parents but the majority of the introgression is toward Q. prinus. Based on external seedling morphology, many backcross progeny are not distinguishable from the latter parent and might be overlooked or misclassified in a study of naturally occurring populations.
10.2307/2483882|The genus Commelina has five species in the United States-three perennials and two annuals. The perennials comprise three species: (1) Commelina virginica forms a distinct group without sufficient variation to warrant subdivisions. Its population center is probably along the lower Mississippi Valley; however, plants in this species are found eastward to the Atlantic Ocean. Commelina virginica has broad leaves and is usually found in rich, moist lowland areas. (2) Commelina dianthifolia is readily divisible into two varieties-var. dianthifolia and var. longispatha. The members of this species are found in southwestern United States. They have extremely narrow leaves and are found primarily in sandy areas. (3) Commelina erecta is subdivided with difficulty. The author recognizes three overlapping varieties. One of these apparently has diverged into three forms, another into two forms. Although keying to forms in C. erecta can be tedious and sometimes not very meaningful, the author feels by using forms he could better show the natural relationships of this group's members. The population center for this species within the United States is presumed to be in Texas. It branches out from there in several directions, the branches constituting the different varieties. The annual species are very closely related, but on most occasions are rapidly distinguished as distinct species-Commelina communis and C diffusa. The former usually has larger leaves and spathes, and the spathes are blunt toward the tip. The latter usually has smaller leaves, and spathes that taper toward the tip. The leaves of both are broadly lanceolate. Plants in these two species are found mostly in moist, rich soil in disturbed areas. Commelina communis is widespread, ranging from the central United States eastward to the coast, and from central Michigan southward to northern Alabama. Commelina diffusa has a similar distribution from west to east; however, the northern boundary of its range is in northern Illinois. It ranges southward to the Gulf of Mexico. Although only that part of its range within the United States was investigated in this research, C. diffusa does extend into Central America and probably into South America.
10.2307/2996399|The reproductive biology of Vincetoxicum nigrum was investigated in Dutchess County, New York. The small, dark purple flowers open in the morning and remain open for approximately 7 days. Although a heavy, fruity, unpleasant scent is emitted throughout the day and night, it is strongest during the day. The first flowers appear in mid-May, but peak flowering occurs in mid- to late-June, tapering off in early July. The flowers are autogamous, with 4.2% of 167 bagged flowers setting fruits with viable seeds, as compared to 11.1% of 72 unbagged flowers. In addition, the plants are clonal, with deep roots and rhizomes. Of 50 seeds tested in September (without a period of dormancy) 14 germinated, versus 20 of 50 that had overwintered. Of seeds from unbagged flowers, 49% germinated versus 40% of those produced by autogamy. Although more than 14 species of flies visited the flowers of V. nigrum, only six species, representing four families, carded V. nigrum pollinia. Flies pick up pollinia on their proboscises as they probe for nectar. A large territorial fly, Sarcophaga sp., defends flowers from visits by other flies.
10.2307/2482659|1. Excised root cultures were established from four highly inbred lines of tomato. One of these was originally derived by doubling the chromosome number of a haploid. Four clones from each of these lines were established and measurements made of main axis length made at the end of four successive passages. 2. The data were compared statistically using analysis of variance techniques. Statistically significant differences were determined between the different genetic lines. 3. Significant inter-clonal differences as well as test-to-test differences within a given clone were also found 4. The implications of these variations in terms of culture techniques and interpretation of results were discussed.
10.2307/2995933|Orobanche fasciculata Nutt. is an herbaceous, achlorophyllous, obligate root parasite inhabiting arid grasslands and dune systems of central and western North America. In Wisconsin, where it is considered a threatened species, only two of six originally reported populations are extant (Kohler-Andrae State Park and Point Beach State Forest). Plants tend to aggregate in interdunal troughs, on the lower dune slopes, and adjacent to individuals or stands of Pinus banksiana Lamb. and Salix sp. The number of plants in each population fluctuated dramatically from 1983 to 1985. At Kohler-Andrae, the plants increased by 136% in 1984 and decreased by 554% in 1985 while those at Point Beach decreased by 71% in 1984 and remained the same in 1985. No insect pollinators were observed. Pollination and seed set experiments indicate that the species is capable of setting seed parthenogenetically. The seeds of O. fasciculata are minute and numerous, with a highly reticulate testa, making the seeds well adapted for long distance dispersal by wind and water, although 80-90% of the seeds fell within 10 cm of the parent plant. Attempts to germinate the seeds using various seed preparations and host plants were unsuccessful. O. fasciculata is monocarpic and the lifespan has yet to be determined. In Wisconsin, Artemisia caudata Michx. is the only known host. The parasitized A. caudata plants at both sites were large and often flowering, suggesting that this parasite depends on mature hosts for adequate resources.
10.2307/2996386|"Southern ridge sandhill" vegetation is distinguished from its more northerly counterparts in Florida by 1) a predominance of south Florida slash pine (Pinus elliottii var. densa) instead of longleaf pine (Pinus palustris), 2) an abundance of scrub hickory (Carya floridana) and evergreen scrub oaks, and 3) stunted, gnarled turkey oaks (Quercus laevis). Vegetation changes were documented in sandhill vegetation in north-central Florida at Welaka using a permanent plot established in 1951 by Albert M. Laessle and in southern ridge sandhill at Archbold Biological Station using records from the Station archives dating from 1929. At both sites the contiguous vegetation is xeric scrub. Although neither site has burned for 50-60 yr, the northern site has experienced little invasion by xeric hardwoods, yet they dominate the southern site. Climatic, edaphic, and biogeographic influences are addressed, and land use histories point to anthropogenic burning as a possible factor accounting for some of the structural and successional differences. The southern type may possess a community structure reflecting less human alteration of the natural fire regime.
10.2307/2996643|Seeds of Solidago shortii are conditionally dormant at maturity in October and November and thus require high temperatures (25/15, 30/15, 35/20
10.2307/2483475|The first stage of succession in abandoned fields in central Oklahoma and southeastern Kansas is the weed stage in which Helianthus annuus is an important dominant. The causative factors involved in the short duration of this stage, 2 to 3 years, and its passage into the annual grass stage consisting of one dominant, Aristida oligantha, have long been sought. The present study was undertaken to ascertain the allelopathic effects of Helianthus annuus on species with which it is associated in abandoned fields. Field studies indicated that certain associated species exhibit reduced growth around the sunflower plants, and preliminary experiments indicated that the reduced growth was not due to competition. Extracts of various organs of sunflower plants, decaying leaves, root exudate, leaf leachate, and soils collected from around sunflowers inhibited the seed germination and seedling growth of Helianthus annuus and many associated species, with the exception of Aristida oligantha and Croton glandulosus. Strong correlations were evident between the species with reduced growth in the field and those inhibited through various laboratory tests. Chlorogenic acid and isochlorogenic acid, present in all extracts of the various sunflower organs, and a suspected -naphthol derivative and scopolin from the leaf leachate were the major phytotoxins identified from the sunflower plants. The phytotoxins of the extracts, leaf leachate, root exudate, and soil extracts are not the same compounds and this indicates that there is probably an additive effect with each group of toxins, thus accentuating the allelopathic effects of sunflower. The present results which indicate that Helianthus annuus is allelopathic to many of the early weeds including its own seedlings, but not to Aristida oligantha, complements the findings of others and may help in explaining the short duration of the weed stage and its replacement by Aristida oligantha in old-field succession of this region.
10.2307/2482823|A reappraisal of the validity of Doodia lyoni Degener as a species is deemed necessary because it has seemed possible that it might be only a variety or form of D. kunthiana. Therefore, certain quantitative and anatomical studies have been carried out with D. kunthiana and D. lyoni and the following points of distinction between them have been brought to light: 1. Ecologically, D. lyoni is much more restricted and rarer than D. kunthiana, which, while existing in the same type of habitat as and together with D. lyoni, also may occur in a number of other situations. 2. The size alone of the entities involved, though generally indicative of the species, should not be relied on exclusively. 3. The stipe-blade ratio is a valuable species indicator although there is a slight overlap in range. 4. The number of stalked pinna pairs present is fairly consistent, D. lyoni being limited to 1-2 pairs, and D. kunthiana usually to 3-5. 5. The type and distribution of hairs on the abaxial laminar surface is of the most value in identifying the species. a. Predominance of capitate hairs or absence of hairs of any type is characteristic of D. kunthiana, while a predominance of linear hairs concentrated especially on the indusium is characteristic of D. lyoni. b. D. lyoni possesses marginal hairs while D. kunthiana lacks marginal hairs. 6. Position and shape of the sorus is frequently valuable in identification. Sori of D. kunthiana always remain as discrete units, and are, for the most part, remote from the midrib. Those of D. lyoni tend toward elongation along the midrib, and are frequently overlapping with adjacent sori. Being closer to the midrib the sori of D. lyoni may partially or completely cover it. 7. The indusial cells of D. lyoni tend to be larger than those of D. kunthiana. 8. The above evidence indicates some clear discontinuities in the characters studied and these differences are considered important enough, taken together, to allow maintaining taxonomically a species status for Doodia lyoni.
10.2307/2483462|The identity, ecology, and pathology of fleshy fungi growing in turfgrass areas were studied during a 5-year period. Of 332 sporophore collections identified, 260 were classified into 13 genera and 16 species of Basidiomycetes. Among them, 10 species were associated with fairy ring syndromes in turf whereas six species were not. Those fungi forming fairy rings were further categorized as Type-1, -2, or -3 depending on the degree of injury imparted to the turf. Clitocybe dealbata Fr. was incriminated, apparently for the first time, as a fairy ring fungus.
10.2307/2996214|The flora of the high xeric sandhills of Kershaw, Richland, Lexington and Aiken Counties, South Carolina was sampled by the quadrat method during July and October, 1982 and March 1983 The species from the four counties were arranged in a Raunkiaer life form spectrum Using a G-test of four degrees of freedom, the sand-hills spectrum was compared to the spectrum developed from a species list for the Piedmont of North Carolina The environmental conditions of the high xeric sand-hills, i e, coarse porous soils, low water availability, and high maximum temperature, are distinctly different from the Piedmont of North Carolina, yet the life-form distribution of the high xeric sand-hills of South Carolina closely corresponds to the more mesic North Carolina Piedmont The data suggest that use of Raunkiaer life-forms may not be an appropriate indicator of environmental conditions in this region
10.2307/2482644|1. In the present paper the finding of cyanoplasts in the hypocotyl and the cotyledons of certain species of Solanaceae is described. The development of the cyanoplasts takes place as follows. Each of the cells under the epidermis during its earliest stage, encloses besides the nucleus and the chloroplasts an extremely small colorless spherical body having a brownian movement. 2. This body gradually increases in size, shows a red, violet or red-violet color, becomes larger than the nucleus, ceases to move and finally disappears. 3. During the time of the development of the body, the cell sap, which at first, is colorless, assumes a red, violet, or red-violet color. This is due to coloring substances which give all the microchemical reactions of anthocyanin. 4. The above mentioned facts as well as other facts connected with the production of some other substances within the plant cell, led the author to certain speculations with regard to the matter of inheritance and of the role that the genes may play. The cyanoplasts have the ability to grow and multiply through budding and often appear near the nucleus. This fact led us to the conclusion that some product of genic action comes out from the nucleus, changes into a cyanoplast and has the ability to produce anthocyanin. The same thing that we assumed for the production of anthocyanin, we can assume for the production of many other substances that are formed in the cell. This hypothesis for the first time was published in our paper "Immunite et heredite chez les vegetaux" (1940).
10.2307/2996563|Two 0.405-ha old-growth spruce-fir forest plots established in the 1960's were resampled in 1986 to quantify changes in stand composition, structure and growth. The plots represented typical middle to upper (1750-1800 m elev.) spruce-fir zone vegetation of the Great Smoky Mountains. Recent balsam woolly adelgid (Adelges piceae Ratz.) infestation had killed almost all Fraser fir (Abies fraseri (Pursh.) Poir.) canopy trees causing fir basal area reductions of 54 and 97% Stand basal area decreased by an average of 28%, while red spruce (Picea rubens Sarg.) density and total sapling density increased by 132% and 93%, respectively. Fir density and sapling basal area increased in one plot, but decreased in the other. Spruce basal area values were similar over time Enhanced radial growth of spruce canopy trees following fir mortality was not indicated by radial growth measurements Tree species diversity changes were minor and showed no common trend between plots.
10.2307/2483884|Comments are made on all Asiatic species, varieties, and forms of Engelhardia; the critical characteristics and distribution of each are given. E. mollis Hu is shown to be not an Engelhardia nor even a member of the Juglandaceae. A full key to Asiatic species and varieties is given. The types of all taxa are indicated clearly. The following new combinations are made: E. rigida Bl. var. subsimplicifolia (Merr.) Mann., E. serrata Bl. var. parvifolia (C. DC.) Mann., E. serrata Bl. var. nudiflora (Hook. f.) Mann., E. serrata Bl. var. nudiflora (Hook f.) Mann. f. crenata (Hook. f. ex Gamble) Mann. Engelhardia spicata Lesch. ex Bl. var. aceriflora (Reinw.) Kds. and Val. is recognized. A different author citation is given for E. spicata Lesch. ex Bl. colebrookeana (Lindl. ex Wall.) Kds. and Val. Described as new are E. serrata Bl. var. cambodica Mann. and E. roxburghiana Wall. f. brevialata Mann.
10.2307/2482334|Colonies of presumed hybrids of Juniperus virginiana L. with J. horizontalis Moench have been observed on the eastern fringe of the Driftless Area in Wisconsin where the geographic ranges and ecological habitats of these species overlap. Characters occuring in a characteristically different combination in each of the species are found in random combinations in these colonies. A comparative study of the somatic chromosome complements of the species and several of the presumed hybrids revealed an unbalance in those of the latter, evidenced by the presence of heterobrachial chomosomes without counterparts. The highest percentage of irregularities found at meiosis in pollen mother-cells of any plant of J. virginiana was 0.91% of J, horizontalis 1.91% and of their presumed hybrids 56.62%. Besides being more numerous than those of the putative parents ,the irregularities of the presumed hybrids were of more diverse types, such as bridges, bridge-fragment configurations, laggards, micronuclei and different sized nuclei. The percentage of apparently normal pollen was found to range from 88.5 to 100% in J. virginiana, from 95.0 to 100% in J. horizontalis, and from 46.0 to 100% in the presumed hybrids. This cytological evidence considerably strengthens the case for the occurrence of natural hybridization between J. virginiana and J. horizontalis first proposed by Fassett on standard taxonomic grounds.
10.2307/2483776|Frasera pahutensis is described from Pahute Mesa, Nye Co., Nevada on the Nevada Test Site. It is easily distinguished from all other species in the genus, and in particular from F. puberulenta, by its numerous stems, short inflorescences, greenish-white corollas, narrowly oblong glands with a cover only at the very base, and small crown scales.
10.2307/2482483|1. Supernumerary chromosomes are present in all the cells of the young embryo up to the late spherical stage. 2. At the transition from the late spherical stage to the heart-shaped embryo root and shoot tissues are differentiated. 3. In the cells of the root tissue the supernumerary chromosomes are eliminated and are seen as micronuelei in the cytoplasm. 4. Elimination is brought about by lagging of the supernumeraries at mitosis.
10.2307/2996661|We characterized the small-scale distribution of vines in the understory of a mesic southern hardwood forest in relation to each other and to microenvironmental factors hypothesized to promote ascent into the canopy. Eleven vine species were encountered on the site; four species, Vitis rotundifolia Michaux, Rhus radicans L., Smilax glauca Walter, and S. bona-nox L., were common. Vine species co-occurred as expected by chance. Individuals were erect, self-supporting, with stem diameter <0.5 cm and were, on average, rooted 1.9 m from the nearest potential support. Vine spatial distributions differed among species and were related to soil moisture, as well as vine cover and plant size. Vine distributions did not correspond to the identity of the nearest support or to microenvironmental variation, such as low herb cover and high irradiance, that would be expected to promote growth into the canopy.
10.2307/2996073|Forty species of orchids have been reported in the literature from Long Island, New York, but three of the species have never been substantiated with definitive voucher specimens. Thus, the orchid flora of the island consists of 37 verified species, one of which is represented by two varieties. A dot distribution map of each taxon is presented, based exclusively on over 1200 voucher specimens collected from 1841 to 1994 Citations of examined specimens are presented and indicate the most recent. collection from each locality, along with additional information. Thirteen species have not been collected or reported from Long Island during the past 60 years. References to historical Long Island orchid publications are also presented.
10.2307/2996129|Castanea dentata (Marsh.) Borkh. was a major forest tree in the eastern United States before an introduced blight killed the chestnut trees in the early 20th century. Its post-glacial migration, especially north of the Wisconsin terminal moraine, was apparently slower than other genera found in association with it in the 20th century. Analysis of historical documents indicates that chestnut trees were restricted to moist but well-drained, acid loam soils. Chestnut had little success on the coastal plain or where drainage was poor. In areas of its greatest dominance, many trees were of rootcrown sprout origin and seedling establishment was not common. This suggests that its slow migration, as indicated by the palynological record, may have been caused by a paucity of appropriate sites for seedling establishment north of the Wisconsin terminal moraine, before adequate leaching of lime and establishment of good drainage, especially near sites of pollen accumulation. The apparent anomaly in its migration rate may also arise from comparing the migration of this species north of the terminal moraine with that of other associated genera. The palatability of its fruits and the coincidence of its migration with the development of agriculture also suggest that its spread into New England may have been associated with cultural changes in native American populations.
10.2307/2484062|Yearly totals of four daily atmospheric pollen surveys, conducted in Yonkers, New York, during 1932, 1953, 1954, and 1967, were analyzed for qualitative and quantitative changes. A striking numerical decrease in herb pollen was recorded, with the 1967 total little more than one half that of the 1932 total. Decreases occurred in all herb taxa except Artemisia, with Gramineae and Ambrosia demonstrating the greatest decline. This change seems directly related to the massive suburbanization occurring to the north and west of the sampling site after World War II, resulting in a similar massive decrease in sites available for growth of wind-pollinated herbs.
10.2307/2484241|Chromosome numbers for 38 taxa are reported, 7 of these for the first time.
10.2307/2483671|A study of replacement of the chestnut (Castanea dentata) in six stands in northern New Jersey indicates that mesic species, particularly beech (Fagus grandifolia), black birch (Betula lenta), and red maple (Acer rubrum) are more important at present than they were formerly and that the oak species which are so conspicuous at present have had declining success in reproducing themselves for many years. It appears that the elimination of the chestnut is not generally correlated with the trend toward more mesic species with the exception of black birch, which is almost twice as common in old chestnut gaps as elsewhere. The most common age groups of oaks are probably related to the last period of extensive lumbering in these stands. Oaks did not fill in gaps by seeding in. Germination and growth experiments do not generally support the idea that changes in litter due to the absence of chestnut might be important in determining subsequent trends of replacement although there is a hint of allelopathic influence. The effects of chestnut removal are largely quantitative. A temporary mitigation in competition led to a greater survivorship of young trees and release in many older ones. Already established trends of decline or increase of most species seem unaltered.
10.2307/2995920|Interspecific hybrids were developed between the small rubber-producing shrub Parthenium argentatum (guayule) and its large nonrubber-producing relative Parthenium schottii in order to understand the inheritance of morphological traits and rubber-producing capacity in the new taxa All F
10.2307/2483526|The blue-green alga, Schizothrix calcicola (Ag.) Gom., formed narrow, rust-colored "trails" on the submerged, gravelly substiate at the western end of Lake Vanda, Antarctica. These trails had distinct, parallel boundaries and extended into the lake some 4 m from the shoreline. It is suggested that nutrients are transported into the lake by very small meltwater streams and that the distribution of the algae represents a response to this influx of nutrients.
10.2307/2481900|Basal rot of chrysanthemum cuttings is of general occurrence in clothhouse propagating benches in San Mateo and Santa Clara counties, California. Symptoms of the disease consist of brownish-black, water-soaked lesions at or near the base of the cuttings. Infection spreads upward in the stems and downward into the roots, discoloring all tissues. Wilting may occur in advanced stages of the disease. Stem tissues become soft and shrunken, and the cuttings collapse. Symptoms on cuttings of other ornamental plants included in these studies are similar. Low air and soil temperatures and excessive soil moisture apparently predispose chrysanthemum cuttings to infection. The causal organism of the disease affecting chrysanthemum has been identified as Pythium ultimum Trow, and its pathogenicity has been proved. Pythium ultimum was also isolated from the infected cuttings of 19 genera in 18 families of ornamental plants, but no infection tests were undertaken. Basal rot of cuttings of chrysanthemum and other ornamental plants studied can be controlled by dusting their basal ends with a mixture of Ferbam and Celite 505. Cuttings may then be inserted into either clean or used sand in propagating benches.
10.2307/2483232|Shoot apices of 42 species from 28 genera in the Moraceae are described. All except 2 species have the tree habit with a wide range of size and shape of shoot apices noted. Thirty-seven of the species exhibit some degree of cyto-histological zonation superimposed on a tunica-corpus configuration. Ten species were considered highly zoned, 8 moderately zoned, 19 slightly zoned and only 5 with no evidence of zonation. Maximum or minimum zonation seems not to be correlated with the tropical or temperate occurrence of a species nor with its growth habit. There appears to be sufficient evidence to suggest a trend of increasing distinction of cyto-histological zonation from the subfamily Moroideae to the Conocephaloideae. A seasonal study of Maclura pomifera is presented. Long shoots abscise their terminal bud near the end of June while water sprouts retain their apices longer, positively correlated with vigorous growth. Short shoots exhibit monopodial growth with typical short shoot construction. Maximum cytohistological zonation occurs near the end of rapid elongation (May 30) which correlates with other seasonal studies. Statistical analyses of shoot apex measurements and those for the metrameristem of M. pomifera show that he metrameristem is subject to less size variation than the apex. Substantiation is given to a suggestion in the literature that in the megacarpus are more valuable for comparative purposes than those for the apex. It is suggested that physiological studies of perennial angiosperm apices might reveal what is responsible for the varying degrees of zonation in the Moraceae
10.2307/2484012|Previous findings showed that callus of geranium (Pelargonium hortorum, Bailey) developed from explants of stem apical meristems and internodes, incubated on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 10.0 mg/liter kinetin and 0.1 mg/liter -naphthalene acetic acid under continuous or a 16/8 hr light/dark cycle, turned green, developed nodules and in 8 to 10 weeks differentiated shoots. This report deals with a parallel study of the anatomical changes accompanying such differentiation. The first change was the formation of groups of meristematic, highly cytoplasmic among highly vacuolate callus cells. Then provascular elements developed and formed a horizontal recticulum of vascular elements in the callus. With further growth vascularization extended horizontally and vertically to the periphery of the callus where shoot apices were organized. The vasculatures of many such shoot apices were joined together in knots at places.
10.2307/2482528|Chromosome numbers are reported for 38 species of grasses from Central and Southern Mexico, belonging to the following 27 genera: Olyra, Aristida, Stipa, Brachypodium, Bromus, Festuca, Calotheca, Peyritschia, Trisetum, Chloris, Opizia, Bouteloua, Hilaria, Gouinia, Eragrostis, Muhlenbergia, Sporobolus, Rhynchelytrum, Panicum, Lasiacis, Ichnanthus, Trichachne, Setaria, Anthephora, Paspalum, Isachne and Andropogon. Twenty six of the reports are first counts for the taxa, and species of three genera, namely Olyra, Peyritschia and Opizia have here been examined cytologically for the first time. When appropriate, the chromosomal information has been related to systematic problems.
10.2307/2483541|Fossil massulae and megaspores of two species of Azolla have been found in sediments from the crater lake El Junco, on Isla San Cristobal (Chatham) in the Galapagos Islands. Azolla filiculoides Lam. occurred sometime before 48,000 years ago, but was wiped out by the drying up of the lake. A. microphylla Kaulf. appeared in post-glacial times when the lake was reestablished and has persisted to the present. Distribution of the two species and means of dispersal are discussed.
10.2307/2483840|Plants with hairy lemmas heretofore assigned to Elymus macounii Vasey in Alaskan floras are reclassified as X Agrohordeum pilosilemma Mitchell and Hodgson, hybr. nov. Field observations and comparative morphological studies implicate Agropyron sericeum Hitchc. and Hordeum jubatum L. as the putative parents. The hybrids appear completely sterile. They occur from south of the Brooks Range, about 66
10.2307/2482219|An analysis has been made of variation in a natural population of Plantago aristata. It has been shown that the reproductive capacity of a plant of this species is at least roughly proportional to its vegetative vigor, and that variations in number of flowers, and length of scape, capsule, seeds and bracts are ali correlated with this vegetative vigor. The growth of the bracts exhibits a certain amount of heterogony. Differences in size are due chiefly to environmental and not to hereditary factors. The suggestion is made that variation in the time of germination may be responsible for variation in size of the plants at the time of floral initiation, and that a critical long-day photoperiod may initiate flowering in all plants of this species irrespective of their size.
10.2307/2996992|Torreya taxifolia is a federally endangered dioecious conifer endemic to ravine bluffs along the east side of the Apalachicola River in Gadsden and Liberty Counties, Florida and Decatur County, Georgia (plus one outlying population in Jackson County, Florida). Torreya taxifolia experienced a catastrophic population decline, presumably fungal in origin, in the late 1950's. Within 10 years virtually no adults remained in the wild, a situation that persists to the present. Size measurements of trees indicate that the mean length of the longest stem is less than one meter. In a census population of over 100 trees, 10% died in four years, mostly from small size classes. Extension of terminal buds along the primary stem was infrequent, with only 47% of all trees experiencing any growth in length during the four year census period. With 32% of all trees losing their primary stem during the census interval, the mean size of individuals within the population is decreasing. Most individuals are multi-stemmed and continue to carry symptoms of disease. Although no causative agent for the decline has been identified, the most prevalent symptoms of disease are needle spots, needle necrosis and stem cankers. Growth fate does not appear to be strongly related to habitat or the incidence of disease symptoms, although stem mortality was higher among trees with heavy foliar pathogen loads. With no sexually mature trees and no seed production, this species faces continued decline.
10.2307/2484574|Initially, the needle primordia of P. roxburghii Sargent grow by means of their apical meristems. When they become about one mm in length the apical growth completely stops and a basal meristem becomes established. Further growth of the primordia solely depends on the basal meristem. The procambial differentiation starts at 350  below the apex of the young needles and proceeds towards the apex. The procambial elements undergo extensive periclinal divisions and form tangential tiers. They undergo rapid elongation and differentiate into vascular elements. The phloem elements differentiate first and they are followed by xylem. The vascular elements at first are organised as a single strand of tissue which later becomes divided into two discrete collateral bundles by the development of a ray-like body. The 'ray' develops from procambial cells in the phloem first and then in the xylem as a uniseriate structure in a median position. The ray cells later undergo multiplication to become a multiseriate body.
10.2307/2995895|Many predictions concerning optimal patterns of resource partitioning imply that limiting resources are shared among several life history components, and this results in trade-offs (negative correlations) among the competing components This implication was examined by measuring covariation among several life history traits and yield components in 13 diverse populations of Vaccinium angustifolium Ait A principal component analysis revealed little covariation among life history parameters even though there was substantial variation in individual traits Yield components also exhibited independent or slightly additive interactions and only one negative relationship was observed Environmental factors were also strongly associated with life history and demographic variables These results suggested that resource sharing does not always occur among life history parameters possibly because 1) components of growth and reproduction often are regulated by different limiting resources, 2) shared resources may not be limiting, and 3) natural selection may favor those individuals which minimize resource sharing through asynchronous periods of component development
10.2307/2996513|Variations in the density and distribution of herbaceous stems around floodplain trees and differences in density and distribution of herbs between samples around trees and samples >2.5 m from trees are described. Estimates of soil surface levels for quadrats around trees are low as a result of depressions due to scouring, particularly on the downstream side of the trees. Litter cover estimates are high around trees as a result of accumulation on the upstream side of the trees. Repeated measures analysis of total herbaceous stem density in the quadrats shows the density at ground level is lower around trees than at points >2.5 m from trees, is lower in quadrats 0-1 m from the trees than in quadrats 1-2 m from the trees, and is affected by direction of the quadrats in relation to waterflow around the trees. There were significantly fewer stems of Aster simplex in quadrats 0-1 m than in quadrats 1-2 m from the trees and the stem density of Laportea canadensis was affected by direction of the quadrats. There were fewer stems of L. canadensis, the dominant rhizomatous perennial, in quadrats downstream of trees than in quadrats upstream at ground level and in quadrats 0.5 m above ground. Observations on regeneration by L. canadensis suggest that the disturbance occurring around floodplain trees affects this species in the vegetative regeneration phase of its life history. Trees on floodplains create depressions as the result of periodic disturbance of the soil due to scouring by floodwaters, cause accumulation of litter, and have different affects on the establishment and pattern of herbaceous species, especially perennials.
10.2307/2483790|Two morphologically distinct species of Silene, which are usually ecologically separated, were found to come together on a large outcrop in the Virginia Piedmont. A striking hybrid swarm is described from the ecotones between xeric and mesic sites. Sample data from the populations are presented in graphic form in support of the hypothesis that the swarm is a long-standing one in which much back-crossing has occurred. Introgression with other Virginia populations is suspected.
10.2307/2483349|A new species of Osmundacaulis, O. wadei from the Jurassic Morrison Formation of southeastern Utah, is described. This new Osmundacaulis is characterized by having a small number of xylem strands in the stele. The form is also distinctive in having a cluster of sclerotic cells generally flattened along the adaxial opening of the curved xylem trace and in having a large round cellular mass of sclerenchyma in the stipular wing. O. wadei is compared with other members of the O. herbstii group to which it appears to belong. This is the first structurally-preserved rhizome of Osmundacaulis to be described from the Jurassic of North America and the second reported from Jurassic strata from the Northern Hemisphere.
10.2307/2484755|The early history of the study of cultivated plants was dominated by the works of Alphonse de Candolle and Charles Darwin. In the first half of this century the work of N. I. Vavilov stands out, and he called attention to the need of biochemical studies. Although his methods for determining centers and the centers themselves have been largely discredited, the data that he accumulated, his method of "differential systematics and differential botanico-geography," and his emphasis upon the importance of such studies to an improvement of our cultivated plants, still rank as outstanding contributions. Biosystematics has contributed much to our understanding of the origin of cultivated plants, and now biochemical systematics promises to add a new dimension. Already biochemical studies have helped in tracing the origin of polyploid species and in providing classifications of cultivars. We may hope for other significant taxonomic contributions as well as helping to unravel the often complex relations of weeds, wild races and cultivated plants. Presently there is great interest in the studies of origins, for it is realized that such studies can contribute to our understanding of evolution, reveal much about man's past, as well as help bring about improvement of our domesticated plants.
10.2307/2996231|Populations of Spergula arvensis L. in California, Oregon, Washington, and British Columbia were assessed to determine whether clinal variation in seed-coat morph ratios similar to that documented in Britain existed on the Pacific Coast of North America. Ratios of papillate and non-papillate seed morphs varied considerably among populations and fit no discernable clinal pattern. San Francisco Bay Area populations ranged from predominately papillate to predominately non-papillate. Morph ratios in these populations also varied between years and during a single season, in contrast to morph ratios in British populations.
10.2307/2484138|An artificial diagnostic key together with taxonomic and distributional notes on the eleven species of Burmeistera known from Costa Rica are presented. Three of these species are herein described for the first time: Burmeistera almedae, B. chirripoensis, and B. zurquiensis.
10.2307/2484694|Pollen analysis of a section of peat from a bog in a meander sear in the Oswego River, New Jersey, indicates that pine-oak communities have dominated the vegetation of the Pine Barrens since 10,000 B.P. With the exception of minor amounts of spruce pollen, evidence of boreal or southern broadleaf communities in the Pine Bariens was not found in the pollen record of the Oswego River site.
10.2307/2483024|1. The anatomy and taxonomy of Heteropyxis have been studied in an effort to determine its affinities, variously reported as with Lythraceae, Myrtaceae, Rhamnaceae and Rutaceae. 2. Original observations on the gross floral and vegetative structure, the anatomy of the petiole, wood and young stem, coupled with data from the literature, show that Heteropyxis has definite myrtalean affinities. 3. Because the similarities are so remarkable between Heteropyxis and the tribe Leptospermeae of Myrtaceae, it is recommnded that the family Heteropyxidaceae is superfluous, and that Heteropyxis should be placed in Leptospermeae as a subtribe, Heteropyxineae.
10.2307/2483199|A new Conidiobolus isolated from decaying leaves gathered in deciduous woods near Cumberland, Maryland, is described as C. parvus. It belongs among the smallest members of the genus. In maize-meal-agar cultures its mycelia give rise along the slowly advancing margin to some few scattered conidiophores from each of which a globose conidium springs off forcibly. Near the margin are also produced numerous resting spores that most often originate medianly in individual hyphal segments and apparently never result from conjugation. With respect to internal structure these spores during a variable period of dormancy resemble the fully mature zygospores of C. incongruus. In their after-ripened stage immediately preceding emission of a germ tube they show marked similarity to after-ripened zygospores of C. utriculosus and Basidiobolus ranarum. The conidiophores formed in the germination of resting spores commonly produce globose conidia in far greater number than are produced by conidiophores of mycelial origin.
10.2307/2483932|Dense 2,000m
10.2307/2484875|This heuristic interpretation considers three regions of Butomus in North America: the St. Lawrence River region, the Great Lakes region, and one in western America-the banks of the Snake River at Idaho Falls, Idaho. Plants from each of the three groups are compared with those of the other two groups and with material from Eurasia where the plants are native. Old World groups of Europe and Asia are arbitrarily distinguished for purposes of comparisons. The North American groups possibly came as three separate introductions from the Old World. Statistical analyses of vegetative and floral features suggest that populations from Great Lakes and western America are related to European plants-these are B. umbellatus L. The St. Lawrence plants are like those of Asia; these latter two groups may represent a second species in the genus, B. junceus Turcz.
10.2307/2996453|Part of the cortex in several genera of cacti consists of cells that have highly undulate walls; the cells are collapsed and shrunken. The outermost, photosynthetic cortical cells and the innermost cortical cells, those immediately adjacent to the stele, are not collapsed but instead are large, turgid, isodiametric cells with smooth walls. Cortical bundles that run through the collapsible region are contorted, probably having been distorted by shrinkage of the surrounding cells. The region of collapsible parenchyma cells apparently is a specialized water-storage tissue: by having flexible walls, they lose their water most easily, thus facilitating transfer of water to other cells whose walls are more rigid. Also, they may be the last to refill when water is available, the water going first to cells with more inflexible walls. This tissue was found in Bolivicereus, Borzicactus, Cleistocactus, Espostoa, Gymnocalycium, Haageocereus, Loxanthocereus (all considered closely related), and Jasminocereus (not considered closely related to the others)
10.2307/2483524|Staminate plants of dioecious `Kentucky' hemp (Ky-d) and of three other dioecious strains had a heteromorphic pair of chromosomes at diakinesis and at metaphase I and were assumed to have the sex chromosome constitution XY. All analyzed plants of female-habit (Ky-[female] m) and male-habit (Ky-[male] m) `Kentucky' monoecious hemp and of a German monoecious strain lacked the heteromorphic pair as did a pistillate plant of Ky-d, and hence were presumbly XX. Ky-[male] m plants differed from other strains in having a large extra piece of heterochromatin attached to the short arm of both nucleolar chromosomes distal to the nucleolus organizer. The pachytene bivalents of hemp are characterized by proximal blocks of heterochromatin flanked by faintly-staining distal segments which terminate in deeply-staining telochromomeres. The short arms of the nucleolar chromosomes and of one other pair terminate with heterochromatic segments. Comparison of pachytene idiograms of Ky-d males (XY) and G-m (XX) failed to reveal differences which would identify the sex chromosomes at this stage.
10.2307/2483886|Five species of Puccinia and two of Uromyces are treated, including Puccinia sonorica on Aristida hamulosa and A. ternipes, Arizona and Mexico, and var. minor on A. ternipes, Mexico; P. unica Holw. var. bottomleyae (Doidge), and var. chica, on A. ternipes, Mexico; P. aristidae Tracy var. chaetariae, Old and New World on Aristida section Chaetaria; P. tarri on A. stipoides, Anglo-Egyptian Sudan; Uromyces seditiosus Kern var. mexicensis on A. adscensionis, A. orizabensis, Mexico.
10.2307/2484152|This paper reviews comparative ultrastructural studies that reveal possible trends of specialization in developing or mature spermatozoids of bryophytes. Included in an introductory resume of spermatogenesis are new data on the microanatomy of the multilayered structure (MLS) in Dumortiera, while other micrographs provide new information on spline width and MLS structure in Fossombronia, Symphyogyna and Monoclea. Most emphasis is given to comparative blepharoplast morphology in five taxa: the liverworts Haplomitrium and Marchantia, the hornwort Phaeoceros and the mosses Sphagnum and Polytrichum. Reaching its greatest degree of structural complexity in the young spermatid (immature spermatozoid), the blepharoplast-a component of the cell's locomotory apparatus-offers a dozen or more characters for comparison. Those characters pertaining to the MLS include the shape and maximum width of the spline or microtubular cytoskeleton, absence or presence and position of a slot-like spline aperture, and the shape, length and width of the typically three-layered lamellar strip which subtends the spline. Other blepharoplast characters include lengths of anterior and posterior basal bodies, the basal body positions relative to each other, their angular orientation relative to the spline axis, and the absence or presence and length of the stellate pattern in the flagellar transition zone. Reconstructions show that each of the blepharoplasts is distinctly different from the others. Blepharoplasts of hepatics and mosses have many more characters in common than do those of either group with the hornworts, and for the hepatics it appears that from the putatively primitive Haplomitrium-type blepharoplast there has been a shift toward reduction of structural complexity in the more advanced taxa. Other evidence suggests that comparative morphological studies of fully formed, prerelease spermatozoids may offer additional clues to bryophyte evolution.
10.2307/2484640|The occurrence of supernumerary chromosomes in Baileya multiradiata Harv. and Gray is reported for the first time. The behavior of supernumerary chromosomes during microsporogenesis in natural populations and in artificial hybrids between normal plants (2n=32) and individuals with two supernumerary chromosomes is discussed. If two supernumerary chromosomes were present, they paired in the first prophase of meiosis and were reduced in anaphase I, often preceding the normal chromosomes to the poles. Three F
10.2307/2996521|Boron was investigated as the possible cause of bud blasting and non-development in Zinnia elegans. Blasting is characterized by a blackening of the developed bud as a result of necrosis of the scales, unopened calyx and enclosed tissue. Plants were subjected to boron levels of 0, 0.0025, 0.025, 0.25 and 2.5 ppm. Plants grown without added boron and at the lowest level supplied showed extreme new leaf chlorosis, thickening and distortion of older leaves, stunted growth and abnormal flower development including blasting. Plants grown at the 0.025 ppm level showed moderate chlorosis and, to a slight extent, the other deficiency symptoms. Plants were healthiest when grown at the 0.25 level of boron. Boron at 2.5 ppm produced plants with marginal leaf necrosis, reduced height and root weight, and slower flowering when compared to the 0.25 treatment level. Analysis of boron in plant tissue confirmed that decreased levels of boron in the medium resulted in decreased levels of boron in various plant tissues.
10.2307/2483041|The composition, biomass and productivity of two upland even-aged Populus forests, one near Dorset, Ontario, the other near Park Rapids, Minnesota were sampled. Composition was determined with the Order Method, with 40 points laid in a stratified random pattern. Overstory biomass was measured by the harvest method with a total sample of 9 trees. Each tree was separated into leaves, branches and bole, with special care given to the rapid separation, weighing and drying of leaves to prevent respiration and water loss. Measurements were made of leaf-area ratio, number of leaves, and percent leaf consumption by herbivores. Understory biomass was sampled from one meter square quadrats. All collected organic matter was oven dried at 70
10.2307/2483252|A technique is described for growing the green root-parasite Melampyrum lineare Desr. (Scrophulariaceae) and its hosts behind glass in a glass-and-blotter sandwich. The description includes collection and germination of the parasite seed, preparation of the host plants, materials and methods for constructing the sandwich, and the uses of behind-glass culture.
10.2307/2996210|Wood specific gravity, an index of structural support, is more variable among species in Trinidad and in Costa Rica than in Indiana Therefore, structural support may be one dimension of increased niche diversification of tropical trees Furthermore, the high variance in specific gravity among species in the tropical areas is present within individual forest stands The Indiana stands lack the low specific gravity (<0 30) and the high specific gravity (>0.70) woods found in the tropical stands With increasing elevation in both Trinidad and in Costa Rica there is a two-step transition where low specific (<0 30) woods disappear before high specific gravity (>0.70) woods disappear Montane forests in Trinidad and Costa Rica have specific gravity distributions similar to those of Indiana forests There are no apparent differences in specific gravity distributions among forests along wet-dry gradients in Trinidad, Costa Rica or Indiana Variation in wood specific gravity and related strength properties parallels variation in species richness along elevational and latitudinal gradients but not along wet-dry gradients
10.2307/2481915|A collection of Aeglopsis Chevalieri from the hinterland of Liberia is reported. Previously the species was known from two seacoast stations in the Ivory Coast. Seedlings have been established in cultivation. A 2n-number of 18 has been determined; this corroborates an n-number-of-9 report in the literature. The Liberian material affords evidence that A. Chevalieri has very close affinities to A. Eggelingii, which is the only other species in the genus.
10.2307/2997200|All woody stems in an old field 14 years after abandonment were cut and all individuals aged at ground level. Ninety per cent of established red maple, the structural and numerical dominant in the field, had invaded within the first 7 years since abandonment. Fraxinus americana, the second most important woody species, showed the reverse skew, with the majority of individuals being recent invaders. The remaining woody species, including species of Carya, Quercus, Ulmus, Prunus, and Juniperus, also showed delayed invasion. Young saplings were clumped in space, whereas old saplings were regularly distributed. To determine whether predation by small mammals was responsible for the cessation of establishment of red maple, partially caged seedlings were set out in a 2-yr old field, the 14-yr old field, and the adjacent old-growth forest. The highest predation intensity was found in the youngest field, a pattern the reverse of that expected if predation were responsible for the closure of the maple establishment window. That predation on seedlings had differential impact along the successional gradient represented by the different adjacent sites calls attention to the potential for impact of seedling predation in succession.
10.2307/2481995|1. Certain species of Trillium may be grouped on the basis of the total length of their chromosome complements. Three groupings may be made of the six species included in this study. One group would be composed of T. sessile L., T. recurvatum Beck, and T. stamineum Harbison. Another group includes T. lancifolium Raf. and T. luteum (Muhl.) Harbison while T. decumbens Harbison stands in a group to itself. 2. The above groups could possibly be separated one from the other on the basis of the total length of their chromosome complements, but it would be almost impossible to separate species within a group on this basis. 3. Total length of individual chromosomes offers little help in separating the six species included in this study; however, chromosomes A and B of T. decumbens Harbison are noticeably shorter than in the other five species studied. This difference would probably be sufficient to separate it from the other species mentioned. 4. A very careful analysis of the arm length ratios of individual chromosomes may reveal sufficient differences between particular species to separate them on this basis.
10.2307/2482738|1. The original territorial survey records were utilized in making a study of the distribution and composition of the primeval forests of Clark, Boone, and Dade Counties in the forest-prairie transition of Missouri. 2. A total of 6500 witness trees were recorded and described by the early surveyors. Forty-seven different tree designations were listed with the largest number (38) in Boone County, followed by Clark County (35), and Dade County in southwestern Missouri with 23. 3. Quercus spp. constituted approximately 65 per cent of all recorded trees. 4. Quercus alba and Quercus macrocarpa were the principal oak species of the forests in the central and northern parts of the transition. Quercus stellata and Quercus marilandica were dominants in the southwest part of the transition in Dade County. This sequence applied also to the principal species recorded in the prairies and barrens of the three counties. 5. Other species of decreasing importance included Carya spp., Ulmus spp., Acer saccharum, Celtis occidentalis, Fraxinus spp. and Tilia americana. Hickory was more important toward the south in the transition whereas toward the north, elm increased in species importance. 6. Oak-hickory was the most common general type in all study positions. Sufficient concentration of sugar maple and basswood with oak afforded mapping of a second type for Boone County. The latter was restricted to dissected, ravine topography associated with the major drainages 7. The most densely wooded areas based on the smallest average distance of witness trees from section corners occurred in Boone County. 8. The largest trees including a 74 inch burr oak were recorded for Boone County. 9. The vegetation-soil relationships of Boone County revealed that at the time of survey, large areas of prairie-formed soils were being invaded by forest.
10.2307/2996234|Plant communities of Inwood Hill Park, New York, New York were surveyed and their historical development analyzed. Distribution of forest, successional field, salt marsh, and lawn communities are presented in a map. Forest vegetation was divided into four types: valley, slope, north-facing, and successional. Since 1940, six salt marshes have grown, which are dominated by Spartina alterniflora and Iva frutescens. Soil analyses indicated that natural soils are acid while fill soil pH is near neutral; both are low in potassium, phosphorus, and nitrates. High densities of non-native ground cover species and elevated soil nutrient values in soil samples were evidence of previous cultivation in the successional field community.
10.2307/2483871|Four species of spring ephemerals native to Wisconsin mesic forests were studied, Erythronium albidum, E. americanum, Dicentra cucullaria, and D. canadensis. Both E. americanum and D. canadensis have a more northern distribution in the state than the other two species. All four species over-winter as bulbs and grow rapidly the following spring. The primary storage material in the bulbs is starch. This accumulates rapidly to a high level by the first of June. During the fall when the bulbs undergo some development, the amount of starch decreases and the soluble sugar content increases. This high level of soluble sugar is maintained throughout the winter and subsequent growing season. Chromatographic studies showed that different amounts of free sugars were present at various times of the year. Both the soluble sugar and the amount of raffinose were higher in the two northern species. Maltose was found in D. canadensis in relatively high amounts, but was absent in D. cucullaria.
10.2307/2484872|Ludwigia peploides ssp. glabrescens spreads extensively by stolons in wet areas of the southeastern United States. The flowers are large and showy and each produces copious quantities of nectar and pollen Potential pollinators are abundant in south-central Oklahoma and north-central Texas. Three classes of pollen collectors among the bees are based on their foraging positions: I. Bees which sit atop the stigma to collect both pollen and nectar. II. Bees which land on the anthers to collect pollen, but cross the stigma moving from anther to anther. III. Bees (pollen thieves) which also land on the anthers, but move directly from anther to anther and fail to contact the stigma. Another bee, Hemihalictus, visits only for nectar. Bees of classes II and III and Hemihalictus do not contact the stigma while collecting nectar. Classes I and II may effect either cross- or self-pollination. Skippers and syrphids are ineffectual pollen vectors. Both the flowers and insects are generalists. The plants are self-compatible, thus reproduction may be either autogamous or allogamous. Geitonogamy should be more common than xenogamy.
10.2307/2996485|Two hypotheses are examined which attribute the selective advantage of liana exclusion to tropical trees possessing buttresses and smooth bark Chi-square (X
10.2307/2484768|Flowers of Ipomopsis rubra are red, tubular, horizontal or pendant, lack a landing platform, and produce copious quantities of nectar. These characteristics are typical of hummingbird-pollinated plants. Archilochus colubris is the pollen vector of I. rubra. The staminal configuration of Ipomopsis and facial features of the ruby-throated hummingbird interact to promote efficient pollen transfer.
10.2307/2483413|The results of an artificial pollination program demonstrate the presence of an incompatibility system in Pontederia cordata L. (Pontederiaceae), which is a tristylous member of the Monocotyledoneae. Self-incompatibility is apparently strongest in the short-styled form, slightly weaker in the long-styled form, and much weaker in the mid-styled form. Corresponding differences in the strength of incompatibility were also noted in "illegitimate" cross pollinations among the three floral forms. Fruit production following inter-form pollinations between anthers and stigmas at an equivalent level (i.e., legitimate pollinations) was markedly higher than from illegitimate ones, although not as high as expected. Observations on inflorescences collected in the field indicate that fruit production under natural conditions exceeds that of artificially, legitimately pollinated plants in the greenhouse. In most field populations examined all three floral forms were present, although in many instances the forms were unequally represented. Possible explanations are offered to account for this inequality. The reproductive floral morphology of other taxa of Pontederiaceae is reviewed and the conflicting reports for several species pointed out. The breeding system of Pontederia cordata is compared with that of the related Eichhornia crassipes, although data for the latter species are incomplete.
10.2307/2482643|Pollen of loblolly pine (Pinus Taeda L.) has a wide tolerance for the action of freeze-drying. Samples have, thus far, in these preliminary tests maintained their viability sealed in nitrogen gas, following freeze-dry treatment, up to 99 days in an otherwise uncontrolled environment.
10.2307/2482318|1. Data are presented for in vitro screening tests for antibacterial substances in the seedling extracts of cultivated plants belonging to 37 different families using Escherichia coli, Serratia marcescens, Sarcina lutea, and Staphylococcus aureus for test organisms. 2. The use of seedling extracts is of value in screening tests of higher plants for antibacterial substances. 3. Approximately 12 per cent of the total number of different kinds of plant seedling extracts tested evidenced antibacterial properties.
10.2307/2482394|1. Seed of Myriophyllum spicatum is not subject to ready germination early in its first year unless exposed to certain conditioning treatments. The necessity for a period of after-ripening is shown by the greater germinating ability of year-old seeds. 2. Treatments which were found to enhance after-ripening, in approximate decreasing order of effectiveness, are 1) partial removal of the stony endocarp, 2) scarifying, 3) freezing, 4) alternate freezing and drying, 5) drying, 6) exposure to relatively high H-ion and OH-ion concentrations and 7) prolonged exposure to low temperature. 3. The pericarps are inhibitory to germination. The conditioning treatments presumably increase germination through some action upon the pericarps. 4. There was suggested a minimum temperature below which germination does not normally occur. In nature there is postulated prompt germination when waters warm in the spring to this temperature. Cooling during the winter and possible freezing condition the seeds for such a spring eruption. 5. The mode of germination and the stimulative effect of certain habitat factors were described as having survival value, even should an adult population become decimated.
10.2307/2483951|A species of Caeoma parasitizing an undetermined species of Salacia from Mysore State, India, has been described as new to science as C. indicum Rajendren., on the basis of comparative studies with two other species described vis. C. callianthum Syd. and C. divinum Syd. on species of Salacia. The Indian species differs significantly from the other two reported species in their morphological characters and the mode of infection persisting within the host from year to year.
10.2307/2483738|The presence of oil cells has been used as a unifying characteristic for the woody ranalian complex. Very little information is available concerning the development of the oil cell and, thus, the validity of this characteristic is questioned. Shoot tips of representatives of 27 genera from nine woody ranalian families were studied. The early stages of oil cell ontogeny are similar in all species studied. The oil cell initial is larger and contains a higher RNA and protein content than the surrounding parenchyma cells. The oil sac is attached to the cell wall by a peg-like structure, which is composed, at least partially, of insoluble carbohydrates. As the oil sac enlarges the protoplast decreases in volume until the entire lumen of the cell is occupied by the sac. In some species not all young oil cells develop into mature oil cells but, instead, give rise to mucilage cells and cavities, lysigenous cavities, and acidic cells which contain tannin-like substances. The secondary structures formed by oil cells appear to be, in some cases, significant generic and familial characteristics, but not significant at the ordinal level. The uniformity of at least the early stages in the ontogeny of oil cells does appear to be significant as an ordinal characteristic.
10.2307/2484551|Study of cambial collections made at fortnightly intervals for 3 consecutive calendar years (1974-1976) has revealed that in Polyalthia longifolia cambial activity begins in May and continues until mid-November. During this period, phloem is produced twice in a year in two distinct installments, the first in May and the second in October-November. The sieve-tube elements, along with their associated companion cells, produced during the first installment remains functional only until the end of October or early November, while those produced during the second installment become non-functional by next May. Thus the longevity of sieve-tube members in P. longifolia extends only for about 7 months at the most.
10.2307/2483719|Studies across an ecotone between deciduous and coniferous forest at Itasca State Park, Minnesota, in 1939-41 had suggested that coniferous forest species were able to colonize openings in the adjacent deciduous forest and that coniferous vegetation might be the climatic climax vegetation in the study area. In 1959, published observations of the same study area suggested that the deciduous forest species were now colonizing the coniferous zone and that a change in climate to wetter conditions in the intervening period was responsible for the change in direction of advance of the ecotone boundary. The present paper reports that in 1966 sugar maple (Acer saccharum) seedlings were abundant within the balsam fir (Abies balsamea) forest in this study area, and extended 650 m into it from the maple forest border. The success of maple advance seemed to be correlated with the opening up of the fir forest canopy following blowdown of senescent fir trees. The occurrence of maple seedlings, contemporaneous with thickets of fir seedlings, within the fir forest suggested that "islands" of fir found within the maple forest in 1939 might have arisen from fir seedling thickets stranded during an earlier successional invasion of the fir forest by maple. The problem of attributing forest ecotone movements to climatic changes over short intervals of time is briefly discussed. Detailed quantitative description of the vegetation is needed to determine the extent to which the deciduous and coniferous vegetation types represent mutually exclusive plant communities in this region.
10.2307/2996512|The vegetation of open, south-facing slopes of Peters Mountain in southwestern Virginia was sampled along 16 transects to provide quantitative data on composition and structure of all strata of woody plants. Three community types were distinguished along the gradient of elevation: (1) a red oak-white oak community at higher elevations, (2) a community dominated by chestnut oak at middle elevations, and (3) a red maple-mixed oak community at lower elevations.
10.2307/2484959|Specimens of the secondary xylem of 18 species of Knema were examined and compared with other genera of the Myristicaceae. The secondary xylem in this genus, on the basis of all the characters considered, can be characterized as primitive. The different species of this genus show a considerable degree of homogeneity in the secondary xylem. The vessels are long, of medium diameter and have scalariform perforation plates. Thin walled fiber tracheids with pits with reduced borders are present. Uniseriate and biseriate heterocellular rays are found. Oil cells and tanniniferous tubes were observed in many specimens. Using available literature on the other Asiatic genera of the Myristicaceae, it was concluded that the wood structure of the four genera (Horsfieldia, Gymnacranthera, Myristica and Knema) is remarkably similar. However, it was noted that the secondary xylem of Knema is structurally closer to Myristica than to the other two genera.
10.2307/2484922|In an attempt to explain the lower elevation limit of Abies amabilis (Dougl.) Forbes in the Cascade Mountains of Washington, seeded and transplanted seedlings were studied above and below the typical lower altitudinal limit (300 m a.s.l.) on N- and S-facing slopes. The growing season was 24 weeks at 300 m but only 12 weeks (in the open) or 8 weeks (in the forest) at 900 m. Nevertheless, growth differences due to elevation did not appear. Growth in the open was greater than in the forest on all sites, but survival percentages were lower due to later drying out of the upper 5-10 cm of soil. Inadequate soil moisture in mid-summer is probably the limiting factor on most sites below approximately 300 m. However, some perpetually moist sites do exist at low elevations; here competition (interference) from fast growing vegetation is probably limiting. Transplants on such sites were buried by dying non-woody vegetation and did not grow during two seasons.
10.2307/2996762|The restricted endemic Dicerandra frutescens Shinners (Lamiaceae) is known from fewer than a dozen localities on the Lake Wales Ridge, Florida. A study of all known populations revealed that this species is virtually restricted to excessively-drained yellow sands in areas that support evergreen oak-dominated scrub vegetation. Microhabitats supporting individual plants have lower litter cover and depth, and greater sky opening, than microhabitats lacking D. frutescens, and tend to be dominated to a greater extent by herbaceous species. Spring fire, defoliation, or removal of aboveground tissues killed 100% of Dicerandra frutescens individuals in field experiments. Control mortality rates for the six-month period were 38-54%. D. frutescens populations recruited following fire from seed stored in the soil. The sensitivity of this narrow endemic to loss of aboveground tissue is consistent with its recently described chemical defense.
10.2307/2484065|Fog drip is a mechanism which leaches metabolites of many kinds from foliar crowns. In southern California few herbs of any species are found beneath the canopy of Eucalyptus globulus. Their absence proved not to be attributable to competition for essential resources; but rather allelopathic chemicals were found to be of principal importance. Natural fog drip was collected from beneath Eucalyptus globulus and shown by bioassay with Bromus rigidus to be inhibitory without concentration. Paper chromatography of fog drip revealed the phytotoxins chlorogenic, p-coumarylquinic, and gentisic acid. Artificial fog drip concentrated three fold inhibited several species of grasses in bioassays performed in artificial media. Fog drip was also toxic in soil bioassays. Additional allelopathic mechanisms in Eucalyptus involving terpenes adsorbed to soil colloids and phenolic acids leached from the leaf litter do exist, but Eucalyptus globulus fog drip acting alone appears to be capable of producing severe inhibition of growth in some herb species. The importance of fog drip as an agent of metabolite transfer from leaves and deposition in the environment lies in the capacity of these compounds to influence the structure and diversity of a plant community.
10.2307/2484591|Examination of macerated bark of five species of Dalbergia reveals that intrusive growth is universal in phloem fibres but slight in sieve tube members. Fibres grow 3-7 times more in length than the cambial initials from which they develop, while increase in sieve tube members due to intrusive growth is almost negligible. The mode as well as the amount of intrusive growth differ in the various types of elements within a species.
10.2307/2997169|Populations of buffalograss (Buchloe dactyloides (Nutt.) Engelm.) consist of varying proportions of plants with male inflorescences only, female inflorescences only, or a mixture of male and female inflorescences that appears to depend on environmental conditions. To investigate the degree of stability in sex expression and its potential hormonal control, we applied exogenous gibberellin, cytokinin, auxin, Ethrel, and a gibberellin inhibitor (paclobutrazol) to monoecious, male, and female plants of buffalograss in a series of experiments. No changes in sex type in male and female plants were observed. Gibberellin showed significant effects in promoting maleness in monoecious genotypes and increasing male inflorescences in male plants. Paclobutrazol greatly enhanced femaleness in monoecious genotypes. For all other hormones, there was no consistent effect on sex expression. For all genotypes paclobutrazol greatly reduced plant height and stolon internode length and produced a dense prostrate mat by changing the tiller habit from upright to prostrate. In contrast, gibberellin-treated plants had a higher growth rate and longer stolons (due to increased internode lengths) than controls. Furthermore, the gibberellin-treated female culms were significantly taller than controls, while male culms were not, also indicating that a higher gibberellin endogenous level is associated with the production of male inflorescences in buffalograss. There were highly significant genotypic differences within the same sex type in numbers of inflorescences and in the inflorescence sex ratio in monoecious plants. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that a mutation(s), greatly reducing gibberellin levels or its activity and leading more or less simultaneously to shortened culms, contracted inflorescences, and increased femaleness, initiated the evolution of dioecy in buffalograss.
10.2307/2482923|1. Classification of the Chlorophyceae should be undertaken with the recognition that there is a closely knit phylogenetic sequence of isogamous green algae with ulotrichoid chloroplasts from the most rudimentary to the most advanced filamentous forms. No justification is recognized for dividing the group at any point into orders, and family boundaries are regarded as somewhat artificial conveniences. Even genus and species lines are frequently indistinct, and traditional categories should be regarded with skepticism. 2. The first distinct trend toward the filamentous condition is an elongation of one cell axis and cell division perpendicular to that plane. Irregular cell division results in irregular branching. Establishment of an axis restricts side branching, but the line between branched and unbranched genera is not a sharp one. Various plant forms are also distinguished because of the origin of opposite, unilateral, and dichotomous branching. The differentiation between relatively unbranched main filaments and smaller side systems has resulted in the plant form of Draparnaldia. 3. The forms which show any filamentous trend could well go into a single family, but the spherical members of the Chlorosphaeraceae should be assigned to a separate family. See figure 9 for comparison with Vischer's system. 4. The primitive ulotrichoid chloroplast can vary to cup- or hour glass-shaped but, in average development it is a parietal plate covering a little over half the cell perimeter. Perimeter coverage increases along with plant size to the rings of large Ulothrix and the laciniate cylinders of Draparnaldia. 5. Gelatinization becomes a firm character only in the advanced genera Geminella, Chaetophora, and Draparnaldia. 6. While the branch or cell derived type of setae are present only in branched forms, their development is greatly influenced by environmental conditions, and they should be considered of little critical value. 7. The Coleochaete and Protococcaceae are remotely derived from the sequence discussed here. The Chlorococcales may have been derived from a tetrasporaceous plant similar to Pseudodendrocloniopsis. 8. The genus Stigeoclonium is the main trunk of the confervaceous system. Its variation is so extensive that the genus needs a complete taxonomic reassessment. Traditional species, drawn on the basis of oppositealternate branching and the development of setae seem to have little correspondence to the plants. 9. A closely related phylogenetic sequence is postulated in the ulotrichoid Chlorophyceae, from indefinitely branched to unbranched and differentially branched forms. In this sequence the development of some structural characters can be followed easily and virtually without gaps, and many characters which have been used to differentiate categories appear not to be constant. Hence, the genera of indefinite branching (the Leptosireae and others), Ulotrichaceae, and Chaetophoraceae should be assigned to a single family. The classification of the entire group is in need of careful study, the traditional concept of Stigeoclonium and its species being especially inadequate.
10.2307/2483310|Refractile radially symmetrical birefringent bodies are formed in the nucleoli of lemon fruit tissue growing in vitro. Within a short period following nucleolar body formation, starch granules become apparent, each starch granule containing a body at its center which shows all the optical and morphological characteristics of the nucleolar bodies Evidence is presented which indicates that the crystalline bodies at the center of the starch granules are of nuclear origin and that an intimate relationship exists between nucleolar body formation and starch synthesis. Such refractile bodies as described for growing citrus fruit tissue were also observed in nucleoli and starch granules of Zea mays, thus indicating that the phenomena observed in citrus tissue are not limited to a single genus or family of plants.
10.2307/2996014|The existence of a red cedar (Juniperus virginiana L) seed bank was investigated by conducting germination tests on soil samples collected from a series of red cedar stands of increasing age and with increasing distances from fruiting red cedar trees in southwest Virginia. The propagule shadow around the fruiting trees was compared to the red cedar seed bank Seed longevity was determined by a burial experiment A red cedar seed bank was largely absent. Seedling emergence from soil samples collected at 0 and 3 m from fruiting red cedar trees represented only 4 and 8%, respectively, of the propagule shadows at these locations Viability and fullness of buried seeds declined exponentially over time; only 55% of the seeds were viable after 14 months. The open habitat in which red cedar occurred prior to European settlement may provide an explanation for the absence of prolonged dormancy in this species. Widespread avian dispersal of seeds, combined with a tolerance for xeric conditions, may explain the rapid spread of red cedar to abandoned pastures so common in post-settlement landscapes of eastern North America
10.2307/2996072|Vincetoxicum nigrum (L.) Pers., (Kleo.) Barb, V. rossicum and V. hirundinaria Medik. (Asclepiadaceae) are exotic twining perennial herbs found in eastern North America. The nomenclatural status as well as the historical and current distribution of these plants were surveyed by studying floristic manuals of flora and journal literature and by examining herbarium specimens, and corresponding with authorities familiar with the species. Vincetoxicum rossicum is the most invasive of the species, often forming large colonies; it occurs from the northeastern Atlantic coast W to S Michigan and from S. Ontario to s. Pennsylvania. Vincetoxicum nigrum and V. hirduninaria appear less aggressive and have more limited patterns of distribution. Vincetoxicum nigrum occurs from the northeastern Atlantic Coast west to Missouri and Kansas and from southern Ontario to southern Pennsylvania. Vincetoxicum hirundinaria is found in southern Ontario, New York and Pennsylvania. Vincetoxicum species may persist for decades after establishment, spreading vegetatively and by means of polyembronic seeds.
10.2307/2995910|A quantitative phytosociological survey was made of the woody and herbaceous vegetation of the Balsam Mountains of southwest Virginia Sixty-five forest stands were sampled between 1125 and 1547m in elevation Density measurements for understory vegetation and per cent cover for herbaceous species were measured in 20 of the 65 stands Stands were ordinated using detrended correspondence analysis (DCA), and divided into nine community-types: spruce, spruce-fir, northern hardwoods (beech-maple and dwarf beech subtypes), yellow birch (ravine and boulder field subtypes), mesophytic, mesophytic-oak, and northern red oak A correlation analysis was performed to test for significant correlations between community composition and environmental parameters Canopy species importance values tended to correlate predictably with most environmental parameters (particularly with elevation and moisture, and associated parameters such as pH) Herbaceous vegetation commonly associated with mesic conditions tended to show a strong correlation with magnesium and calcium The first ordination axis of both the canopy and herbaceous vegetation correlate with an elevation-moisture gradient Axis 2 of the canopy ordination, which correlates with calcium levels and herbaceous species diversity, separates mesophytic from mesophytic-oak communities Axis 2 of the herbaceous ordination, which correlates with magnesium levels and organic matter percentage, separates mesophytic, mesophytic-oak, and northern red oak communities One fairly extensive community-type, located on open north slopes, resembles the high elevation cove forests of the Great Smokies In fact, the vegetation of all topographic types was found to be much more mesic than forests of similar topography elsewhere in the southern Appalachians Slopes below 1500 m in elevation may have been dominated by spruce prior to the large scale logging operations of the early 1900's Perhaps the disturbance of former boreal forests has enabled mesic hardwood forests to exist at these higher elevations where moisture is abundant
10.2307/2484712|A high frequency of triploids of the tuber-bearing Solanum microdontum subsp. gigantophyllum (2n = 3x = 36) is reported from some western mountain ranges of provinces La Rioja and Catamarca, Argentina, where the climate is much drier than in the typical localities of the diploid cytotypes. It has been found that the triploid cytotypes hybridize in the field with the diploid species S. kurtzianum and S. chacoense giving origin to generally sterile, diploid hybrids. Nevertheless the presence of some pollen fertile hybrids suggests that the diploid cytotypes of S. microdontum may be also present in some localities of Sierra de Velasco, La Rioja.
10.2307/2996103|For those members of the Magnoliidae possessed of reduced flowers, their grouping into the monophyletic "Amentiferae" is no longer given serious credence Nonetheless, there are certain taxa within the "Amentiferae" that do share characteristics other than the presence of aments or catkins In the present study, the technique of absorption was employed on antisera produced to the following reference pollen meals: Ailanthus altissima, Amphipterygium glaucum, Betula pendula, Comptonia peregrina, Corylus americana, Fagus grandifolia, Juglans nigra, Leitneria floridana, Liquidambar styraciflua, Pterocarya fraxinifolia, Quercus borealis, and Rhus copallina Indices of Absorption Similarity Coefficients were used as a method of analysis, the data from which were subjected to the Unweighted Pair Group Method Analysis (UPGMA) from which a dendrogram was generated Pollen proteins of 22 taxa of heterologous pollen meals were compared and used as antigens to react with absorbed antisera by double diffusion. When the 22 taxa were compared the majority of taxa could be grouped into 2 superorders: the Rutiflorae and Rosiflorae Only Fraxinus, Humulus, and Morus pollen extracts revealed no close affinities with tested taxa of either superorder
10.2307/2996000|A comprehensive review revealed references that mention or describe extrafloral nectaries (EFN's) in 42 genera of Leguminosae (13 Caesalpinioideae, 19 Mimosoideae, 10 Papilionoideae) EFN's of the two former subfamilies, with rare exceptions, have a compact, palisade epidermis and are not on stipules or stipels. Papilionoideae EFN's are known almost exclusively from tribes Vicieae and Phaseoleae; all unambiguous reports indicate that these EFN's consist of an aggregation of clavate nectariferous trichomes on either stipules or stipels. We found that Mucuna pruriens (L.) DC has filiform stipels with nectariferous trichomes scattered from base to tip. Stipels of four species of Erythrina (E berteroana Urban, E greenwayi Verdcourt, E herbacea L, E variegata L) examined are thick and variously shaped but all have abaxial depressions, ranging from a shallow depression to a cryptic cavity, lined by clavate nectariferous trichomes EFN's of Mucuna and Erythrina resemble those of other Phaseoleae by having a loose aggregation of trichomes, but their modified stipels are different The literature and our observations lead us to conclude that EFN's of Papilionoideae have evolved independently, and in a simpler manner, than EFN's of Caesalpinioideae and Mimosoideae.
10.2307/2996126|Portulaca smallii P. Wilson is a succulent, summer annual endemic to granite outcrops of the Piedmont of Virginia, North Carolina and Georgia. Freshly matured seeds were buried in pots of outcrop soil in mid October 1981 and exposed to natural seasonal temperature cycles. Beginning on November 1, seeds were exhumed at monthly intervals for 28.5 months and tested in light and darkness at thermoperiods of 15/6, 20/10, 25/15, 30/15 and 35/20<sup></sup>C. Seeds were dormant at maturity but became completely nondormant by May 1982. Nondormant seeds required light and a temperature regime >15/6<sup></sup>C to germinate. After seeds lost their initial dormancy, they retained the capacity to germinate to 65-100% in light at 35/20 and 30/15<sup></sup>C throughout the remainder of the study, which ended in March 1984. In September 1982 and September and October 1983, germination at 25/15<sup></sup>C declined to 38, 19 and 35%, respectively, but by November and December seeds had regained the ability to germinate to 73-98%. Seeds germinated at 20/10<sup></sup>C only in April-July 1982 and February-April 1983. The species belongs to the category of summer annuals in which the buried seeds do not re-enter dormancy in spring. Thus, seeds potentially can germinate throughout the growing season.
10.2307/2482532|New distributional records are listed for 7 species and 3 varieties of Juglans and 4 species of Carya from Mexico and Central America. One new state record is given for J. major var. glabrata, C. myristicaeformis, and C. palmeri. Additional notes are given on the description of J. olanchana var. standleyi. A hybrid, C. illinoensis X C. ovata var. mexicana is reported for the first time from Mexico in San Luis Potosi.
10.2307/2996415|Mountain laurel and rosebay rhododendron comprise an important evergreen component in the deciduous forests of the southern Appalachians These evergreen, sclerophyllous shrubs are widely distributed over the landscape with Kalmia associated with drier, more exposed sites and Rhododendron associated with more mesic sites Dense stands of these two species may interfere with tree establishment and may contribute as much as 32 per cent to the total standing crop of leaf biomass in some forests Even though nutrient concentrations of their leaves are generally lower than that of deciduous trees, leaf longevity permits significant storage of nutrients Resorption of N, P and K prior to leaf fall is an important nutrient flux
10.2307/2484362|The biomass allocated to component organs of Impatients capensis varies between two populations living under extremely wet and dry conditions for the species. However, seed output per gram and the percent of total biomass in component organs showed no appreciable differences. Under uniform greenhouse conditions there were no significant differences between the two Impatiens populations. Although growth of I. capensis is environmentally controlled, resource allocation is not. The same conclusions are obtained if "reproductive effort" is estimated by number of viable seeds/gram of plant biomass.
10.2307/2484661|Asexual spores of Auxarthron reticulatum (Zukal) Orr and Plunkett, a fungus producing arthroaleuriospores, were suspended in sterile solutions of distilled water, physiological saline, and a 5% concentration of wetting agents including Tergitol 4, Nalquot, sodium lauryl sulfate, dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate, triethanolamine oleate and Roccal. Suspensions also received sonic and hand agitation to improve dispersion. Spores were completely inhibited by Roccal and nearly so by dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate and Nalquot. Viability of spores suspended in the other fluids was reduced by 15-62% compared to spores suspended in distilled water, or in physiological saline, where viability was approximately the same as in distilled water. Sonic agitation reduced spore viability in all but TER and NQ.
10.2307/2996923|Errors of omission and commission in the text so far detected are tabulated. The opportunity to correct, add, or update certain information has been taken by Dr. Cronquist.
10.2307/2482630|1. A new genus and species of aquatic Hyphomycetes, Culicidospora aquatica, are proposed. 2. The organism is compared with similar organisms, especially Tricladium Ing., Tetrachaetum Ing. and Clavariopsis DeWild. Spore production in each is reviewed. 3. The aleuriospore of Culicidospora aquatica is described as a quadriradiate, asymmetrical spore with lateral arms and an apical and basal extension elongating simultaneously.
10.2307/2483350|The adult form assumed by all known species of Pandanus section Acanthostyla Martelli is described. This habit appears to be unique in the monocotyledons. Because of its superficial similarity to the habit of some conifers, e.g. Araucaria, it is termed "coniferoid."
10.2307/2483868|Asynchronous replication of chromosomal DNA was demonstrated in root tip cells of Haplopappus gracilis by means of pulse labeling with tritiated thymidine and autoradiography. The results indicate that chromosomes proceeded from a condition of generalized DNA synthesis at early S to one in which synthesis was restricted to specific segments at late S. There was some evidence that at least some of the late replicating regions were also delayed in their initiation of DNA synthesis.
10.2307/2996450|In relatively young, closed canopy, temperate forests, forest management may achieve important ecological goals by using modified silvicultural techniques that mimic natural patterns of disturbance, forest structure, and stand development. This paper reports the short-term effects on canopy closure and understory vegetation of a partial harvest that removed 42% of the basal area in a 1 O-ha portion of a 40-ha study area dominated by 60-80 year old, post-agricultural Ouercus rubra L., Pinus strobus L., and Acer rubrum L. in mid-coastal Maine. All harvestcreated canopy gaps were inventoried and mapped fourteen months after the harvest. Naturally occurring ledge gaps (gaps caused by the absence of canopy trees due to extremely shallow soils or exposed bedrock) and tree gaps were mapped and measured on 30 adjacent, untreated, hectares. Tree gaps ranged from 10 m
10.2307/2484462|Petal flavonoids of four white-flowered species (Anemonella thalictroides; Jeffersonia diphylla; Podophyllum peltatum; Sanguinaria canadensis) of the woodland spring flora of eastern North America were characterized. A floral flavonoid syndrome of one to several kaempferol glycosides present in high concentration was observed in all four species. A chromatographic survey of 16 other white-flowered spring-blooming species indicated that this floral flavonoid syndrome is widespread in the spring flora. It is suggested that ultraviolet absorption by floral flavonoids may function in pollinator attraction, and that convergent evolution for floral flavonoid complements has occurred among these species.
10.2307/2996099|Scanning electron microscopy was used to examine the surfaces of leaves of representatives of the five native species of sumac and several interspecific hybrid combinations Two trichome types (acicular with micro-papillae and -striae, and bulbous gland), three cuticular patterns (smooth, ridged, and striated), and glaucousness due to epicuticular wax are described and illustrated These micromorphological features are considered to be highly adaptable with usually the most extreme vestiture, striated cuticle, and glaucousness found in the driest, most exposed habitats They are useful as analytical and synthetic taxonomic characters
10.2307/2996793|We measured pollinator visits of Impatiens capensis flowers found in different-sized patches beneath canopy gaps and beneath closed canopy in a mature, old-growth deciduous forest in New Jersey. Honeybees, bumblebees and halictid bees made up the majority of visitors. Visitation rates per flower increased slightly, but not significantly, in relation to flower patch size (number of open flowers) and floral density. By contrast, pollinator visitation rates, floral density and seed production per pod were all significantly higher in patches located beneath forest canopy gaps compared to patches located beneath closed canopy.
10.2307/2996211|Detrended correspondence analysis was used to analyze the variations in the distribution of tree species with respect to aspect in an upper slope oak-hickory community of the mixed mesophytic forest of southeastern Ohio Intensive sampling within this restricted slope position minimized the heterogeneity of soil parent materials while maximizing aspect variation between stands Aspect proved to be of predictive value in estimating species distribution patterns Quercus spp and Carya glabra were more abundant on south-facing slopes Carya ovata appeared to be more closely associated with the mesic species of north-facing slopes Carya tomentosa, however, exhibited a distribution pattern apparently independent of aspect
10.2307/2484502|Zone electrophoresis, as opposed to moving boundary electrophoresis, is a convenient and powerful tool used in many areas of the physical and life sciences (including taxonomic studies) where separation of molecules is paramount. Although a wide spectrum of stabilizing media is available for zone electrophoresis, starch gel or polyacrylamide gel are usually the preferred media because they offer increased resolution. Various electrophoretic strategies are available. This paper should prove helpful in the selection of the proper strategy for any given study, because it covers the total electrophoretic technique in a general way. Emphasized are the procedures involved in studying a tissue electrophoretically, including preparation of samples, electrophoresis of samples, staining of the gels after electrophoresis and recording of data. Sample preparation is simple since crude extracts can be used. Use of electrophoresis requires decisions regarding the medium, the set-up (slab or tube), and running conditions (constant current, constant voltage, or constant power). Several factors can lead to inadequate or altered gel patterns, and these are discussed. Inadequacies in the final results can usually be corrected by modifying the approach. After electrophoresis of the sample, one may stain the system for proteins or specific enzymes. The major staining systems are listed. Also discussed are the tetrazolium technique, ATP detection technique, and coupling techniques which form the underlying bases of many enzyme stains. Gel banding patterns should be photographed unless they are very common. Electrophoretic banding patterns (especially isoenzyme patterns) can arise as a result of several mechanisms-both real and artifactual. Proper interpretation of electrophoretic patterns is an essential aspect of research using electrophoresis as a tool.
10.2307/2996044|The pattern of biomass distribution, and the concentrations of N, P, K, Ca, and Mg were determined by standard methods in goldenrod ramets throughout the annual growing-dormancy cycle. In spring, N, P, K, and Mg were translocated to new rhizomes over a month before ramets emerged and, with the exception of Mg, the concentrations of these elements rapidly declined in above-ground organs after ramet emergence. Although there was a continuous uptake of all five elements from soil reserves during the growing season, there was little autumn retranslocation of nutrients from above-ground to below-ground organs. The mineral element allocation patterns were stable during the growing season except for the principal trade-off between the major sinks of leaves and inflorescences for N, P, K, and Mg and between stems and inflorescences for Ca. The data show that S. altissima is efficient in its use of nutrients, thus reducing the amounts of nutrients required from soil reserves. This, in part, may explain the broad site tolerance of tall goldenrod.
10.2307/2484786|A unique population of southern wild rice (Zizania aquatica L.) is described from the estuary of the Wading River in Burlington County, New Jersey. Individuals of this population grow below low tide in shallow protected areas and broad, slip-off slopes of river meanders. The substrate of these habitats is a mud or soft, black muck. The decumbent stems of these plants root at the lower 3 to 6 nodes and have 2 to 6 branches with axillary panicles on the upper nodes. The submerged, floating and aerial leaves have an unusually narrow mean width of about 8 mm. The emergent inflorescences bear pistillate florets with long lemma awns (maximum 10.5 cm), averaging 6.5 cm. These long awns assist in the method of non-dispersal of the ripened caryopsis. The Wading River plants also flower, produce mature grain and shatter over a longer period later in the fall than do plants from any other New Jersey population. This population is, perhaps, an ccotype of Z. aquatica.
10.2307/2481846|1. A number of specimens of a fossil, vesselless, angiospermous wood have been collected near Sweethome, Linn Co., Oregon. 2. The horizon is presumed to be middle or upper Oligocene and a continental equivalent of the Eugene formation. 3. A new form genus of fossil wood, Trochodendroxylon, has been erected to contain fossil woods showing affinities to the genus Trochodendron. 4. The species Trochodendroxylon beckii nov. sp. has been described and figured as the type of this new genus.
10.2307/2996565|Biomass and nutrient allocation patterns were studied during the growing season in a wild leek (Allium tricoccum Ait.) population in southern Quebec, Canada Wild leek is a spring geophyte in which the photosynthetic phase precedes and does not overlap the reproductive phase N, P, K, Mg and Ca allocation to plant structures was studied concurrently with biomass allocation in reproductive plants during the 1983 growing season. Biomass allocation to individuals of all size-classes (divided into two size-classes) of the population was studied in 1984 and 1985 Patterns observed are typical of plants with a spring ephemeral phenology, such as a high investment to leaves during the short photosynthetic period The large allocation to the bulb suggests a conservative survival strategy, based primarily on vegetative propagation. Nutrient and biomass allocation patterns were largely similar, except for mobile nutrients (N and P) in the scape Little variation in biomass allocation was seen in large reproductive wild leek plants from year to year; smaller, non-reproductive plants showed higher variability, probably because of higher phenological response to climate
10.2307/2995938|The relationship of the shrub layer to soil factors (K, pH, P, Mg) and to death of canopy elms was studied on a stand basis in 15 southern Wisconsin lowland forests. Ordination and correlation analysis revealed a positive relationship of shrub layer species composition to soil K, but not to pH, P, or Mg. Rank correlation of species composition to density of dead elm was not significant. Total shrub density, however, did show a relationship to dead elm density. When dead elm density was greater than 5 stems/ha, shrub density increased significantly and predictably. If the density of dead elm/ha is lower than this critical density, no community (i.e., whole stand) response can be detected and shrub response is essentially a small gap phenomenon. Above this critical density, shrub density increases significantly as the number of dead elms increases, resulting in a transition from small gap processes to a more general openness. That is, as the number of dead trees/ha increases, the gap effect widens and gaps begin to coalesce.
10.2307/2996775|Alliaria petiolata (Bieb.) Cavara and Grande is widely naturalized in the northeastern 1/4 of the United States and adjacent Canada, where it is an aggressive invader of moist woods. The plants are facultatively xenogamous, and the white flowers attract a variety of short-tongued bees and flies. High fruit and seed set by open-pollinated, emasculated flowers demonstrated that flower visitors move pollen between flowers. Cross-pollination resulted from the bees visiting only one or two flowers per plant. High fruit and seed set by bagged flowers demonstrated that flowers self-pollinate in the absence of pollinators. The nectar contained 51% fructose, 44% glucose, and little sucrose, which is typical of the nectars of flowers pollinated by short-tongued bees. The nectar contained no free amino acids, but did contain numbers of peptides, which, when hydrolyzed, yielded most of the amino acids present in floral nectars.
10.2307/2996433|Samples from thirteen populations of Oenothera grandiflora from southern Alabama were analyzed cytogenetically Ten of the populations consisted of structural homozygotes showing 7-pairs of chromosomes at meiosis or forms with small circles Three populations, however, included plants exhibiting either a large circle of 14, a large circle of 12, or a large circle of 10 at meiosis. Of the 13 populations, 6 consisted only of self-compatible plants; the remaining populations were composed of both self-incompatible and self-compatible plants The cytogenetic analysis of the large-circled plant from the earlier collection from Brewton, Alabama is reported. An understanding of the origin of the large-circled forms of O grandiflora and their relationships with the structurally homozygous members of the species awaits further analysis of their complexes.
10.2307/2996884|We compared black oak (Quercus velutina Lam.) leaf and shoot parameters between current shoots from current buds and reserve shoots formed from reserve buds after winter clipping treatments. We compared small trees growing in the light of an open field to trees in the shade of a forest understory in order to test for the importance of current and stored resources in shoot development. The populations of reserve shoots formed after clipping were similar to normal current shoots. Compared to current shoots, reserve shoots had the same numbers of leaves with similar lengths. Leaf areas per shoot, leaf number per shoot, and leaf lengths were lower on reserve than current shoots in the shade, but higher in the light. Mean shoot and internode lengths were greater for reserve than for current shoots primarily because there were fewer reserve shoots less than 4 cm long, particularly in the light. Only a few reserve shoots were longer than the longest current shoots. Specific leaf area was the same on reserve and current shoots. Leaves on reserve shoots were less lobed then on current shoots. In general, shoot populations from the two different compartments of the bud bank were similar.
10.2307/2484468|The vegetation and soils of forest and shrub wetlands in and near Tompkins County, New York, are described. Percentage cover estimates were made for all vascular plant species within 0.1 ha plots, and a bucket auger was used to examine soil pH and horizon characteristics for each of 45 samples. The data on woody vegetation of each sample were then subjected to cluster analysis, resulting in four groups of samples. Ordination by reciprocal averaging revealed that two of these groups were distinctive vegetation types (swamps with Tsuga canadensis, Acer rubrum, and Betula lutea, and stands of Acer saccharinum and Fraxinus spp.); another group actually comprised two vegetation types (Populus deltoides-Platanus occidentalis-Ulmus americana floodplain stands and Acer saccharum-Fraxinus americana stands). The last group, a collection of varied successional and long-lived Swamp Shrub communities, is too heterogeneous to be considered a vegetation type. Seasonality of water levels and soil texture constitute the major environmental gradients separating these swamp vegetation types. Herbaceous species do not appear to be grouped into the same vegetation types as the woody species.
10.2307/2484035|Observations (1969-70) of field and greenhouse grown plants of Amphicarpum purshii Kunth indicate the presence of viable seeds in the aerial spikelets, and leaves and spikelets on the underground culms. Viable seeds and leaves on culms have previously been reported not to occur on specimens of this species.
10.2307/2483011|An axenic culture of Scenedesmus dimorphus typically produced coenobes in soil extract medium. With addition of a soil bacterium the culture was entirely unicellular.
10.2307/2484442|Upon germination, seedlings of the swamp lousewort, Pedicularis lanceolata Michx., require hosts for continued development. Without hosts seedlings are stunted and chlorotic, whereas seedlings planted with clover (Trifolium incarnatum L.) or wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) as hosts were tall with expanded green leaves. In sterile culture, seedlings on a mineral nutrient medium with a low pH had growth similar to seedlings attached to hosts. At a higher pH or when the medium was supplemented with sucrose, fructose, glucose, casein hydrolysate, glutamine, kinetin, gibberellic acid or indoleacetic acid growth was stunted. It is therefore probable that P. lanceolata relies on a host for an increased supply of water and minerals with little reliance on a host for organic compounds.
10.2307/2484745|A new species of Tapura from Mexico, T. mexicana is described. This is the first record of this genus in Mexico. Previously the genus was known from South America, Cuba, Hispaniola and the lesser Antilles. It has not been collected in Central America.
10.2307/2996400|Two semiaquatic grasses, Phalaris arundinacea (a perennial) and Echinochloa crusgalli (an annual), were grown for six weeks in the greenhouse to examine the interaction of environment and plant-plant interactions on plant biomass, biomass allocation patterns, and survival. Plants were grown in monoculture or in mixture in four water regimes (moist, emergent, variable, and submerged) and two nutrient levels (low and high) in a randomized block replacement series design. Phalaris had higher survival than Echinochloa in all treatments. Echinochloa survival was greatest in moist and emergent water levels. Both species produced greater biomass in the high nutrient treatment than in the low nutrient treatment. Root: shoot biomass ratio increased for both species with decreasing nutrient level; however, the root:shoot ratio of Echinochloa was significantly lower than that of Phalaris at both nutrient levels. Interspecific competition did not adversely affect survival or biomass allocation strategy of either species; rather, their greater survival in mixture than in monoculture suggests that intraspecific competition is relatively more important for both. In wetlands, Phalaris may be more successful than Echinochloa in fluctuating and submerged water because of low Echinochloa survival.
10.2307/2484411|A study of pyrite petrifactions from Middle Devonian strata near Cairo, New York revealed an aneurophyte root, specimens of Stenokoleos sp., and pyritized spores in sectional view. In addition, a reconstruction of the vascular system of Cairoa lamanekii is proposed. The aneurophyte root is diarch, and secondary xylem is present. Stem specimens of Stenokoleos sp. are characterized by considerable variation in stelar configuration. The series ranges from a three-fluted stele with three protoxylems to a subdivided three-fluted stele with incipient traces and nine protoxylems. A bifurcated rachis of Stenokoleos is also described. The spores, 30-375  m in diameter, are unnamed.
10.2307/2996731|Sex determination in flowering plants is complicated and variable at flower, individual, population, species, and higher taxa levels, and despite its importance, basic questions have still not been clearly answered. A mechanistic model is proposed that assumes that one hormone has male and female receptors to inhibit one sex and induce the other independently. The range of hormone concentration and the two sensitivity levels of the receptors interact to regulate sex expression. Every possible relationship among the three components matches a sex form in nature, and all sex forms in nature can be explained by these relationships. Furthermore, evolutionary transitions among breeding systems are suggested. The model has empirical support and generates testable predictions.
10.2307/2484032|The rhizome of Polygonatum canaliculatum (Muhl.) Pursh is structured in easily discernible yearly increments. The soluble sugars of each increment of the rhizome were extracted and identified. In addition, each increment was studied to determine any changes in the appearance of the tissues of the rhizomes. Fructosans, highly polymerized sugars, were found to undergo a seasonal change within the rhizome. Several fructosans exist as distinct entities during the late summer and winter months but undergo depolymerization during the spring when the upright shoot is produced. The younger increments of the rhizome store greater quantities of soluble sugars than the older increments. The ground tissue of the rhizomes exhibited deterioration with increasing age of the particular increment. The phloem tissue appeared to remain functional until senescense of the organ was near completion.
10.2307/2997165|The contributions of growth, mortality and recruitment to long-term changes in the composition and structure of an Allegheny northern hardwood forest were quantified for a set of four permanent plots in south-central New York. Increment cores, taken from all trees  10 cm dbh, indicated that more than half (53.3%) of the stems inventoried in 1935 died before 1988. Mortality was highest on an unthinned plot (62.8%) and least (37.5%) on the plot with the lowest initial basal area. Mortality was highest for the short lived, shade intolerant species (e.g., black cherry [100%] and black birch [83%]) and lowest for longer lived, more shade tolerant species (e.g., sugar maple [34%] and beech [51%]). Relative growth rates of overstory trees were significantly lower on an unthinned plot than on three thinned plots for two decades after thinning. Sugar maple appeared to be the most responsive species to thinning. Growth rates of basswood declined markedly from 1930-1987. These results suggested that sugar maple would continue to dominate these plots while basswood and beech would become less important in the future forest.
10.2307/2484505|The application of electrophoresis of various kinds-including agar gel, starch, acrylamide, immunoelectrophoresis (IEA)-to the taxonomy of non-pathogenic fungi is reviewed. Research on molecular characteristics, genetics, and development of fungi which offers insights into the taxonomy of various groups, and the strengths and weaknesses of the application of electrophoresis to taxonomic problems of non-pathogenic fungi are discussed.
10.2307/2560350|Allozymes coded by 13 genes were examined by starch gel electrophoresis in populations of the three varieties of Chenopodium incanum. With the exception of three alleles in very low frequency in C. incanum var. elatum, no alleles unique to a variety were encountered. Genetic distance between the varieties indicates that each is differentiated and lends support to their taxonomic recognition. The largest proportion of total genetic diversity in C incanum resides between the varieties, providing further support for their recognition. Allozyme data are concordant with the recognition of C. fremontii and C. incanum as distinct species. At several allozyme loci in each species the alleles present in highest frequency are either missing from the other taxon or are found in very low frequency The genetic distance between C. fremontii and C. incanum is much greater than the distance between the varieties of C. incanum.
10.2307/2996124|In Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument, Arizona, organ pipe cactus (Stenocereus thurberi) attains its greatest densities on upper southwest-, south-, and southeast-facing slopes with angles from 15 to 24<sup></sup>. The height-class distributions of organ pipe cactus populations on these sites indicate that steep, upper bajadas with southerly exposures are characterized by continuous seedling establishment. Cacti on these warmer sites likely escape some of the frequent freeze damage that causes higher seedling mortality on north-facing slopes and in valley bottoms affected by cold air drainage. Establishment of organ pipe cactus on southerly exposures is facilitated by shading from nurse plants or rocks; 85% of all organ pipe cacti <1 m tall that were sampled grew in association with nurse objects. Northerly aspects and flat terrain support populations characterized by irregular height-class distributions with few small plants. On these sites, height classes represented by the greatest number of individuals likely correspond to sporadically occurring past episodes when conditions were favorable for establishment.
10.2307/2484139|Populations of Linanthus androsaceus (Benth.) Greene growing on and off serpentine soils in southern California have been investigated by means of soil and plant shoot analysis, transplant experiments and nutrient supplementation. The ability of the serpentine plants to flourish in serpentine soil, in contrast to the inability of the non-serpentine plants to do so, is apparently the result of several factors prominent among which are the calcium/magnesium ratio and nickel and chromium toxicity.
10.2307/2484156|Seta elongation of many liverwort sporophytes occurs without cytokinesis and without the concomitant tissue differentiation that characterizes growth of higher plants. A comprehensive review of early and current work with setae illustrates the potential usefulness of this system for studies on cell elongation. Phototropism, growth regulator responses, wall extensibility, water relations, fine structure, and wall and membrane synthesis during growth have all been studied to varying degrees. A characteristic shown to be particularly advantageous is tissue homogeneity. Uniform cell type makes the elongating seta readily amenable to micro-analysis using quantitative techniques. Critical dependence upon various aspects of active metabolism during growth have been demonstrated by the appropriate use of such techniques. A rapid growth response to auxin is demonstrated in Pellia epiphylla for the first time. Auxin-stimulated growth rates of excised Pellia setae equal or exceed the rates of intact plants. These and other findings open the door to further study on the mechanism of auxin-stimulated growth in this simple, little used model system.
10.2307/2484766|The genus Capsicum encompasses approximately 20-30 taxa, including 4-5 domesticated species, all of which were originally native to the New World. During the past 25 years cytotaxonomic and plant breeding techniques have been especially useful in gaining an understanding of several wild and domesticated species-pairs each of which may well represent a wild progenitor and its associated domesticate. The data available argue strongly for the polyphyletic origin of the four known domesticated species. Recent investigations using the biochemical systematic method of chromatography and subsequent flavonoid analysis have generally corroborated earlier findings.
10.2307/2996797|Chestnut-dominated forests of the Caucasus Mountain area of Russia are very similar to former chestnut-dominated forests in eastern North America. The distribution, pathology, and reproductive status of European chestnut (Castanea sativa) in the Caucasus are described and compared to that of American chestnut (C. dentata). Chestnut forests are distributed continuously along the southern slope of the Caucasus mountains near the Black Sea, and are found in isolated populations on the north side of the Caucasus, at elevations ranging from 200 to 1300 meters. Chestnut blight was apparently introduced into the region after 1880 and continues to destroy chestnut forests today. Chestnut in the Caucasus is also infected by several other fungal and bacterial parasites and the joint infection of blight and bacteria may be especially dangerous for chestnut trees. Chestnut-dominated forests comprise only a few percent of total forest cover in the Caucasus Biosphere Preserve, and usually occur in mountain valleys or coves with deep brown soil. The age structure and reproductive status of chestnut in the Caucasus was investigated on six study plots in the Caucasus Biosphere Forest Preserve near the upper altitudinal limit of chestnut. Although chestnut is at least 70 percent of the overstory on these sites, there are very few trees less than 50 years old, and very few recent seedlings on any of the plots. Most large chestnut trees appear to have originated as basal spouts from previously established stems. Although chestnut seed production appears adequate, we suspect that competition with shrubs and other tree seedlings, and predation by herbivores and rodents, now prevent the establishment and survival of chestnut seedlings in the Biosphere Preserve.
10.2307/2484869|A revision of the Central American species of the vacciniaceous genus Disterigma is presented. The Central American representatives include D. humboldtii (Klotzsch) Niedenzu (Guatemala, Costa Rica, Panama, and northwestern South America) and two endemic Panamanian species, D. panamense Standl. known only from the Province of Darien and D. luteynii sp. nov. presently known only from the Province of Panama.
10.2307/2482464|1. A foot rot of tomato in the canning crop near Stockton, California, yielded cultures of Phytophthora capsici. 2. Inoculations with this fungus caused a basal stem rot when the mycelium was added to the soil around the stems of young or half mature unwounded, potted tomato plants. 3. Infected immature and mature tomato fruits developed specific symptoms and signs. 4. The fungus proved pathogenic to unwounded, potted young Kidney bean plants and to young or mature pepper and pea plants. 5. Remarkable features of the pathogen were the non-motility of the majority of its zoospores and their fusion in pairs. 6. The variability of the fungus was studied by making single zoospore cultures. The single zoospore progenies of two single zoospore cultures were studied and differences were found.
10.2307/2997179|An examination of the vegetation in and around an old-growth oak-hickory forest in Central New Jersey suggested that hickories (Carya spp., Juglandaceae) were not regenerating in the forest at the same rate as in adjacent wooded hedgerows (5-7 m wide corridors dominated by trees and shrubs). The goal of this study was to experimentally examine how factors affecting seed and seedling survival might account for these differential recruitment patterns in contrasting landscape elements. To determine seed discovery efficiency by small vertebrates, I planted seeds of mockernut hickory (C. tomentosa (Poir.) Nutt.) with and without their aromatic husk in both forest and hedgerow. Regardless of diaspore type or habitat, seed discovery by herbivores was found to be 85-100% after only 5 days. Gray squirrels (Sciurus carolinensis), the principal predator-disperser, were determined to be equally abundant in both landscape elements. To assess the effects of diffuse competition and predation on seedling establishment and survival, I constructed split-plot shade/exclosure cages into which 576 seedlings were explanted and subsequently monitored (survival and mortality agent) for three years. Browsing by deer and rabbits resulted in considerable mortality after one year, particularly in the forest (64% mortality) compared to the hedgerow (21% mortality). During the second year, the major source of mortality switched to physiological stress resulting from drought. Mortality due to drought stress was more noticeable in the hedgerow. By the end of the third year few seedlings remained alive (ca. 1% in forest, 10% in hedgerow). Over the 3-yr period, a small percentage of seedlings were lost due to other factors such as root grubbing, whole plant removal, and litterfall. Shading (50%), to emulate diffuse competition by overstory, was not found to affect survival to any significant extent in either habitat. Phytophagous insects did not result in any observable mortality but did remove 1-10% of the leaf area of the majority of seedlings in both habitats in each field season. I conclude that certain stages of recruitment may be significantly influenced by the presiding landscape element.
10.2307/2482990|1. The author's conclusions on the relationships of twenty-one species of Lobelia . section Lobelia are based on correlated data derived from taxonomic, ecological, cytological, and genetic studies. 2. There are fifteen diploid species, one species with both diploids and tetraploids, three tetraploid species, and two hexaploid species. The taxonomy of these species and their infra-specific taxa is discussed. 3. Three new combinations are proposed and some artificial interspecific hybrids are listed. 4. The phylogenetic relationships of the twenty-one species are discussed and a diagram illustrates the relationships. 5. There are four lines of speciation. In each of three lines, only a single diploid species has survived. The remaining eighteen species have evolved in one complex system of speciation in which there are three distinct subgroups: (i) seven small-flowered species; (ii) a subgroup of four narrow-leaved species; and (iii) seven medium- to large-flowered species. 6. Lobelia cardinalis is related to L. siphilitica.
10.2307/2484470|Fire scars, soil charcoal, historical accounts, and fire control records indicate that the fire regime in the western portion of Great Smoky Mountains National Park has changed dramatically during the last 200 years. The mean interval between fires, based on fire scars from pine forests for the period 1856 to 1940 was 12.7 years. Most of these fires were probably set by settlers, and man-set fires may have been an important influence since Indians migrated into the Little Tennessee River Valley.
10.2307/2484867|Tournefortia latisepala is described as new along with T. pauciflora, an unpublished species of E. P. Killip, and T. killipii, a new species named in honor of the discoverer. The existence of Killip's unpublished manuscripts on the Andean species of Cordia and Tournefortia is acknowledged and the possibility of their publication is discussed.
10.2307/2484048|The first division of meiosis usually occurs within the mother spore much earlier than the development of the promycelium. The typical features of meiosis involve formation of bivalent pairs with "chiasmata" comparable to those in higher plant nuclei. The haploid number of chromosomes is two.
10.2307/2484777|Mount Monadnock, an isolated peak in southern New Hampshire, was once completely wooded, the upper part being covered with mature red spruce. Fires in 1800 and 1820 denuded the upper part and produced an artifical timberline. Invasion of pioneer vegetation which included some arctic-alpine species proceeded rapidly at first, and spruce regained much of the slopes. Now, the progress of spruce in reclothing the summit has slowed to a halt and spruce may even be retreating from its former outpost.
10.2307/2482565|Codium fragile, first discovered on Long Island in 1957, was carried as an unknown contaminant on oysters taken from Long Island to restock beds near Chatham, on Cape Cod, Mass., in 1961-62. Drift specimens have also been found in Rhode Island.
10.2307/2483401|In an attempt to account for the sterility of an autotetraploid eggplant, embryo sac development in a diploid cultivar and its autotetraploid (C
10.2307/2996999|The invasiveness of nonnative Acer platanoides in an isolated New Jersey Fagus grandifolia-Quercus spp.-Acer saccharum forest preserve was investigated by comparing size and age profiles of the exotic species with those of other tree populations present. Increment cores show that Acer platanoides was present by 1915 and is now plentiful in all younger age classes. Acer platanoides is the second most abundant canopy species (17.2% of stems), outnumbered only by Fagus grandifolia (41%), and more numerous than either Acer saccharum (9.4%) or Quercus spp. (11.7%). Because of its relatively recent arrival, Acer platanoides ranks in dominance (8.2% relative basal area) below Quercus velutina (29.1%), Fagus grandifolia (26.1%), and Quercus alba (12.1%), but above Acer saccharum (1.9%). Acer platanoides seems likely to increase in importance in the future, because its abundant (>2000/ha) shade-tolerant seedlings and saplings comprise 59% of all small (DBH < 5 cm) woody stems, over twice the amount of Fagus grandifolia reproduction (23.1%) and five times the Acer saccharum reproduction (10.5%). To maintain or restore examples of relatively natural forest communities in this region, it may be necessary to restrict horticultural plantings and remove mature individuals of this popular tree in the vicinity of nature preserves.
10.2307/2484426|Semigamy was used as a method of producing haploids in two species of cotton, Gossypium barbadense L. and G. hirsutum L. The G. barbadense semigametic strain VSg-7 produced 40% haploids in its S
10.2307/2483057|Two new cellular slime molds are described from New Jersey. Acrasis rosea, a new species with a pink pigment in all its cells, produces fruiting bodies with branching chains of spores. It has been isolated on an orange bacterium and several pigmented fungi. Acrasis probably occupies an advanced position in the Guttulinaceae. The second organism, Protostelium mycophaga, is described as a new genus and species. Its cells also contain a pink pigment. It grows well on Rhodotorula and several other fungi, especially pigmented ones. During sporulation a single amoeba arises on a slender stalk and encysts at its apex. The genus is tentatively considered a primitive member of the Acytosteliaceae.
10.2307/2484008|Atrichopsis compressa (Hook. f. & Wils.) comb. nov. [Polytrichum compressum Hook. f. & Wils.] replaces Atrichopsis magellanica Card. as the name of the sole species of this unique Fuegian genus of Polytrichaceae. Polytrichadelphus minimus Card. is transferred to the genus Psilopilum as Psilopilum minimum (Card.) comb. nov. Psilopilum antarcticum (Mull.-Hal.) Par. [Catharinea antarctica Mull.-Hal.] is considered a synonym of Psilopilum trichodon (Hook. f. & Wils.) Mitt.
10.2307/2484572|Spores of L. fuegianum Roivainen were encountered in two beds of interstadial limnic sediments in glacial drift located in a gravel pit about 6 km south of the western end of Lago Rupanco at 41
10.2307/2997107|Pollen grains of 22 taxa of Hosta and nine taxa of closely related monocotyledons were investigated by light microscopy (LM), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). On the basis of exine ornamentation and wall ultrastructure, the pollen of Hosta can be divided into five types; reticulate, reticulate-like, rugulate, rugulate-baculate, and rugulate-granulate. The rugulate-granulate type is the most common and can be divided into eight subtypes based on variation in shape and size of the granules and degree of density of the rugulose exine elements. There is some speciesspecific variation in exine ornamentation. On palynological grounds, it is suggested that Hosta, Hesperocallis, and Leucocrinum may have originated from a common group of ancestral plants.
10.2307/2995918|A survey of the herbarium specimens of the gentianaceous genus Halenia, together with field work, has demonstrated that six species occur in the seven countries of Central America (Guatemala-Panama) Keys, descriptions, synonymy, selected exsiccatae and critical comments are provided These species are H alata, H aquilegiella, H brevicornis, H decumbens, H euryphylla and H rhyacophila This is a reduction from the nine species reported in the national floras and checklists of that area Halenia shannonii is here reduced to synonymy of H decumbens and H woodsoniana to that of H rhyacophila Halenia crassiuscula, attributed to the flora of Guatemala, is shown to be a misidentification of H decumbens rather than the considerable range extension of the Mexican endemic, H pringlei (incl H crassiuscula)
10.2307/2482257|1. It has been shown that virus tumor tissue from the root of the sorrel plant (Rumex acetosa L.) requires vitamin B
10.2307/2996324|A floristic study of the poorly investigated Bolivian part of the Pantanal at Puerto Suarezhas been carried out. Available information upon the area is reviewed and a floristic list of the study area comprising 67 species is presented. Although the limited range of the investigation does not allow a detailed floristic comparison of the area with the Brazilian portion of the Pantanal, no obvious differences were found to previously investigated areas in the proximity
10.2307/2484550|Lobelia gattingeri A. Gray is an annual plant species endemic to the cedar glades of the Central Basin of Tennessee and is on the Smithsonian Institution's 1978 list of plant species recommended for threatened status in the United States. Seeds germinate in both autumn and spring, and plants can behave as either winter or summer annuals The primary period of flowering and seed production is in spring, but in wet summers flowering can occur until October. Seeds are dormant at maturity in spring but some afterripen during summer, so that a portion of them can germinate in light at field temperatures in early autumn. Seeds that do not germinate in autumn are stratified during winter, and this lowers the temperature requirement for germination. Consequently, seeds can germinate in light at habitat temperatures in March and April. A wide range in size and reproductive output exists among plants in a population, and the number of individuals at a given site varies greatly from year to year.
10.2307/2996882|Embryos in seeds of the winter annual Corydalis flavula are differentiated but underdeveloped (small) and have physiological dormancy (PD) at maturity in May. Thus, seeds of this species have morphophysiological dormancy (MPD). A high percentage of the seeds lost their PD (afterripened) when kept at 12/12 hr daily thermoperiods of 30/15 and 35/20
10.2307/2484691|Fruit collections were made from three trees of Acer rubrum L. in each of 39 geographic locations representing the natural range of the species. Measurements of fruit characteristics revealed highly significant differences among geographic locations and among individual trees within locations. In no case were within-tree differences large enough to nullify differences among trees of a given location or among locations. Samara width showed exceptional uniformity among different fruits collected from the same tree. Average samara width, fruit weight, seed length, and the ratios of samara width/samara length and seed length/samara length were not significantly correlated with latitude or longitude of the source locations. Samara length was significantly correlated with latitude but not with longitude; length decreased from south to north. For most traits, the variation among trees within areas was as large or larger than the variation among geographic locations. Samara length and fruit weight were correlated with the length of the freeze-free period, mean annual temperature, and mean January temperature.
10.2307/2996547|In Smilacina racemosa and S stellata the seedlings and mature plants differ in the form and development of their aerial parts The epicotyl shoot of seedlings develops monopodially in a morphologically precise fashion over the course of three years The first year, there is no foliage leaf; the second year, petiolate foliage leaves develop in the absence of an extended aerial stem; the third year, sessile leaves are borne on an extended upright stem. Mature plants of these species grow through the annual sympodial branching of fully extended determinate shoots, and foliage leaves are always sessile The protracted development and leaf shape exhibited by the seedlings are also exhibited by mature individuals of S trifolia, (a species which branches profusely to form extensive clones) indicating that these two features are generally characteristic of establishment growth in Smilacina
10.2307/2483184|The cell membrane of Gloeocapsa was found to be about 280
10.2307/2483805|The two-dimensional development of gametophytes of Pteridium aquilinum was found to be under the strict control of blue light. Gametophytes remained filamentous if cultured in red light; two-dimensional gametophytes returned to the filamentous mode of development if transferred back into red light. Gametophytes were grown in red light, transferred into white light for specific intervals, and then transferred into red light or darkness. The percentage of two-dimensional gametophytes (plants with at least one oblique cell wall) was assayed at the time of the transfer from white light and again at the end of the experiment. The increase in the percentage of two-dimensional gametophytes was found to be proportional to the time in white light.
10.2307/2484180|The species-soil relationships of halophytes growing in salt flats south of Antero Reservoir, Park County, Colorado were investigated. Gradients of soil moisture and salinity appear to have the greatest selective action on species distribution and relative abundance. Wet, highly saline soils were dominated by Salicornia rubra, while drier saline sites were characterized by Distichlis stricta. Of the four species variously dominant along the moisture-salinity gradients, D. stricta was restricted to two of the five community-types, but Triglochin maritima, Puccinellia nuttalliana and S. rubra were found in all of the communities investigated. The relative abundance of these ubiquitous species varied in the given communities and may in part be a reflection of interspecific competition.
10.2307/2484853|Significant differences in biomass allocation to asexual and sexual tissues were found among populations of Sedum lanceolatum Torr. at four elevational sites in the Rocky Mountains, Colorado. Plants harvested at similar stages in their phenological development from the lower (2,196 m) and upper (2,591 m) montane, subalpine (3,048 m) and alpine (3,744 m) zones revealed an increase in the total number of leaves and rosettes, with concomitant decreases in the mean number of leaves per rosette and the total dry weight of plants with increasing elevation. With increased elevation, the number of flowering stems, the mean height of the inflorescences and the total number of flowers per plant decreased. Student-Newman-Keuls multiple range test distinguished the lower montane plants by their greater total dry weight biomass, whereas the alpine forms were characterized by more total leaves, yet fewer leaves per rosette than upper montane forms, decreased height of the flowering stems and fewer flowers. The subalpine and alpine populations were similar in that they partitioned a lesser percentage of biomass to sexual tissues than did other populations. The correspondingly greater percentage in asexual biomass was produced by a significantly larger proportion of leaves, stems and rhizomes in alpine plants. The distinctiveness of the alpine population in the field concurs with other designations of the forms as subspecies. More elevational groups were distinguished by the number of flowers per plant than the number of inflorescences or the vegetative characters. The greater population differentiation within Sedum lanceolatum based on sexual rather than asexual characters measured variation in response to environmental changes with elevation. This variability may afford populations increased flower and seed production when growing conditions improve.
10.2307/2996414|A history of postglacial local and extralocal montane vegetation is preserved in sediments recovered from Balsam Lake, a small lake (ca 2 ha) in the western Catskill Mountains, New York, and a radiocarbon-dated sequence is provided as time control Early postglacial pollen assemblage zones at Balsam Lake are similar to pollen assemblage zones recognized elsewhere in New York and in New England Abies and Picea forests became dominant in the Balsam Lake area around 12,000 Y BP and were replaced largely by Pinus which reached its highest development by 9,000 Y BP. By 7,000 Y BP Pinus was succeeded by Tsuga, Betula, Fagus, and Acer Fossil pollen from these genera are compatible with the local and extralocal present-day vegetational community structure surrounding Balsam Lake. Except for the dramatic Tsuga decline recorded around 4430 Y BP, the pollen record at Balsam Lake from the mid-holocene to the present registers only slight changes in pollen frequencies for most major trees These changes include a partial recovery of Tsuga and the appearance of Castanea pollen by 2,500 Y BP Some regional components of the pollen rain are preserved in the Balsam Lake sediments as weaker pollen signals from surrounding lowland positions These signals are broadcast mainly from prolific pollen producers, such as Quercus, and they may represent larger vegetational events occurring at lower elevations (below 500m) Poor pollen producers (e g., Carya, Juglans) are not strongly represented in the Balsam Lake pollen record Evidence indicates that the fossil pollen record is influenced largely by site elevation and surface area of the pollen catchment site
10.2307/2482424|1. This discussion has shown that the terms used for inflorescences are often so defined as to be inapplicable to the types of flower-clusters for which they are intended; some, indeed, have very rare, if any, counterpartsin nature. Moreover the classification of inflorescences into "indeterminate'' (centripetal or acropetal) and "determinate" (centrifugal or bastpetal) groups refers to their behavior rather than to their structure and is not conducive to clear understanding of the modes of flowering. The terms "monopodial" and "sympodial" more accurately describe the results of contrasting methods of development of inflorescences; for the underlying difference adoption of the terms "basitonic" and "acrotonic" is suggested.2. In order to fit the terms we use to the parts for which we use them, revised definitions are proposed as follows:Cyme: a compound, more or less flat-topped sympodial inflorescence, sometimes simulating a compound umbel but the branches less regularly disposed.Dichasium: a typically three-flowered cluster composed of a peduncle which bears a terminal flower and, below it, two braeteoles which subtend lateral flowers. (The bracteoles may be abortive; and one or two flowers also may fail to develop.) A compound dichasium arises from repetitive branching of a simple dichasium.Monochasium: a sympodial inflorescence composed of a peduncle which bears a terminal flower and, below it, a single fertile bracteole which subtends a lateral flower; the peduncle of the latter in turn giving rise to a single lateral branch; and so on. (The bracteoles may be abortive.)Pleiochasium: like a dichasium, but the peduncle giving rise to three or more lateral branches.Bostryx: a monochasium in which successive pedicels describe a spiral around the sympodial axis.Cincinnus: a monochasium in which successive pedicels follow a zigzag path along one side of the sympodial axis.Rhipidium: a bostryx compressed so that all flowers lie in one plane. Drepanium: a cincinnus compressed so that all flowers lie in one plane. Raceme: a monopodial inflorescence composed of a central axis along the sides of which arise pedicellate flowers or small flower-clusters, usually in the axils of bracts.Corymb: a raceme whose pedicels are proportionally elongated so as to bring all the flowers more or less to the same level.Umbel: au inflorescence (monopodial or sympodial) composed of several branches which radiate from almost the same point and which are terminated by single flowers or by secondary umbels.Spike: an inflorescence composed of sessile or almost sessile flowers arranged singly or in contracted clusters along a central axis.Spadix: a spike with a thickened, fleshy axis and usually enveloped by a spathe.Capitulum (Head): a compact inflorescence (monopodial or sympodial) comparable to a spike with a very short (often discoid) axis, or to a contracted compound dichasium.Ament (Catkin): a slender, often pendent, usually scaly spike bearing unisexual, apetalous flowers, and finally deciduous as a whole.Panicle: a loosely branched inflorescence of which the ultimate units may be of various types.
10.2307/2996254|Specimens of a red-flowered shrub from Sonora and Chihuahua are described as Anisacanthus andersonii. The species appears to be related to A. thurberi of the Sonoran Desert and is distinguished from it by its larger corolla, thecae and capsule and by the leaves which are usually larger and evenly disposed along the stems. A comparison of the new species with A. pumilus is also provided.
10.2307/2997180|I investigated interrelationships among topography, resources/conditions, fire, and woody vegetation over the lower half of an elevational gradient, from arid lowlands to productive intermediate elevations, in the Chiricahua Mountains in southeastern Arizona. With increasing elevation, soil water potential, litter depth, organic carbon, canopy cover, and fire probability increased, whereas forest-floor light levels, soil temperature, pH, and percentage bare soil decreased. With increasing soil moisture levels, plant cover increased and forest-floor light levels decreased. Fire frequency and soil moisture availability were positively correlated. Comparison of the fire data with published studies suggests that relationships between elevational gradients and fire may change in predictable ways from southern to northern latitudes in western North America. First axes of direct (DCCA) and indirect gradient analysis (DCA) showed a strong relationship between vegetation and variables correlated with elevation, including fire and resource variables such as light and soil moisture. Further variation in plant community composition was explained by a second axis that appeared to relate to variation in soil pH and soil texture, probably resulting from differences in parent material. The major environmental variables explaining axis 1 of the DCCA were the same as those found controlling the elevational distributions of tree species in separate single species studies.
10.2307/2997127|Multiple pattern analysis was employed to determine the vertical and the horizontal patterning of the Hearts Content area, an old-growth hemlock-white pine-northern hardwood stand in northwestern Pennsylvania. The largest scale of patterning separated the beech-hemlock-white pine forests of the well drained uplands from the hemlock and yellow birch forests of the poorly drained, seepage-fed footslopes and flats. Groves of small hemlock represented a finer scale of patterning which added another dimension to the vertical stratification and the regeneration patterns of the stand.
10.2307/2484264|The term "ecotype" was proposed by Turesson in 1922 and subsequently used to refer to groupings of populations (ecological races, subspecies) in relation to a type of habitat or climate. In the last 20 years, investigators studying either only a few populations or several widely separated populations have shown an increasing tendency to imply that each population sampled was an ecotype or represented one, and the term is now being used by ecologists to indicate almost any degree of genetic difference below the level of the species. Our increasing knowledge of genecology and population differentiation is making it clear that an ecotype may not be the best ecological unit and is definitely not an evolutionary unit. Consideration of the Turesson ecotype as a reliable ecological unit requires an assumption of environmental uniformity within climatic or altitudinal regions or habitat-types and thus a lack of ecologically significant variability among populations. Since the evolutionary unit is the population, the use of "ecotype" for the concept of genetically-based variation that is habitat correlated can only contribute confusion, not additional information.
10.2307/2996071|Although few of the following wood characteristics may be synapomorphic, at least some species of Plumbaginaceae share the with Polygonaceae simple perforation plates, small pits on lateral vessel walls, libriform fibers as imperforate tracheary elements, paratracheal axial parenchyma, storying, silica bodies, and dark-staining amorphous deposits. These features suggest close relationship between the two families. A similar roster of features is cited as supporting placement of the two families close to Caryophyllales, a placement suggested recently on the basis of macromorphology and rbcL evidence. The latter evidence also links the two families with Nepenthaceae and Droseraceae. These latter families resemble each other in wood anatomy, although their wood features are significantly more primitive than those of Plumbaginaceae. Raylessness and paedomorphic rays in Plumbaginaceae suggest an herbaceous or near-herbaceous ancestry for the family. Wood of Plumbaginaceae is markedly xeromorphic. Large fusiform silical bodies in axial xylem idioblasts and conjunctive tissue astrosclereids are newly reported for dicotyledons. Newly reported for Plumbaginaceae are vessel restriction patterns, pervasive axial parenchyma, abaxial axial parenchyma, raylessness, storying, and centripetal successive cambia.
10.2307/2996179|Cambial peroxidase isoenzyme patterns were determined for more than 90 taxa in the genus Quercus. Certain major anodal isoenzyme bands were characteristic of the subgenera Cerris (AA) and Protobalanus (D). Species of subgenus Quercus (AC) had an AC phenotype with the C band most prominent, while the subgenera Cyclobalanopsis (A,B,C) and Erythrobalanus (A,B,C) had three bands with A band predominating. However, it was not possible to assign any given species unequivocally to one of these latter 3 subgenera on isoenzyme patterns alone because of band variability. General graft compatibilities were related to taxonomic classification, only in the sense that individuals with similar isoperoxidase patterns in either intersubgeneric or intrasubgeneric grafts are likely to be compatible. However, there is so much variation in isoperoxidase patterns, even among individual trees, that there are many deviations from expected results.
10.2307/2484854|Three methods are used to describe the population dispersion patterns of four tree species in a Louisiana hardwood forest. These methods are based on 1) the variance-mean ratio from thirty-eight 10 x 10 m quadrats, 2) the distances from randomly selected points to the closest plant of each species, and 3) the distances from individual trees to their nearest neighbor of the same species. Results indicate that two species, Celtis laevigata Willd. and Ulmus americana L., occur in clumps within which the stems tend to be uniformly dispersed. The dispersion pattern of Carpinus caroliniana Walter was tested for two size classes; the stems over 10 cm DBH are uniformly dispersed and stems between 2.5 and 10 cm DBH are clumped, suggesting that the uniform pattern in large stems is caused by differential mortality incurred as the stems increase in size. Quercus nigra is also clumped.
10.2307/2484774|Three dimensional structures and inorganic constituents of dumbbell-shaped bodies in the leaf lamina epidermis of rice plants (Oryza sativa) were examined by micromanipulation and X-ray microanalysis at the scanning electron microscopic level. In fixed or mineralized specimens, dumbell-shaped bodies appeared like two combined dumbbells, and each of them appeared to consist of a central, dark strip and bright wings derived from both sides of the central strip, when over-viewed by scanning electron microscopy. In the three dimensional features revealed by micromanipulation, the bodies appeared to comprise two molar-shaped bodies which seemed to be amorphous crystals at least from the outside view. Furthermore, it was shown that the dumbbell-shaped bodies were crystals rather than cells. Microanalysis revealed that the greater concentrations of Si were confined to the dumbbell-shaped bodies, while greater quantities of Ca and K were found to be present in the surrounding regions than in the bodies.
10.2307/2996085|Twenty-two natural xeric forest openings in southern Illinois on a variety ofsubstrates were sampled using a modified Daubenmire canopy coverage method in order to classify, describe and define these plant community types. Barrens, xeric forest, sandstone glade, loess hill prairie and limestone glade plant community types were identified from an agglomerative hierarchical clustering of sites using Percent Similarity as the resemblance function and an Unweighted Pair Group method of classification. Some vegetation types were strongly related to substrate (i.e., limestone glades, sandstone glades) while others reflect successional status (i.e., xeric forests and barrens). Discriminant Analysis identified soil pH, soil depth, soil texture, amount of exposed rock, slope angle, cation exchange capacity and soil nutrients as significant discriminators among the community types. Four of the twenty-two sites are barrens, an endangered plant community in the Midwest (Heikens and Robertson 1994). Barrens are characterized by open-grown trees, primarily Quercus stellata and Quercus marilandica, and a mixture of prairie and dry woodland herbaceous species, including Schizachyrium scoparium, Danthonia spicata, Helianthus spp. and Chasmanthium latifolium, with 1-5% exposed rock, and soil depth of 8-15 cm on sandstone, shale and chert substrates. In this region, barrens appear to be timetransgressive communities that are remnants of a once more widespread community type and, unless maintained by fire or other disturbance processes, will succeed to forest.
10.2307/2484492|The small leaves of Diapensia and Pyxidanthera have a venation pattern which is highly unusual among dicotyledons. The secondary veins curve basally and become attenuated in that direction often without rejoining the primary vein or other secondaries. This new pattern is termed inverted-eucamptodromous. Diplarche, at one time placed in the Diapensiaceae, has a kladodromous pattern more like that in some genera of the Ericaceae in which it is now classified.
10.2307/2996815|Direct and indirect gradient analysis related stand tree composition and species richness to maximum detected stand age and successional patterns in relatively homogeneous first bottom floodplain forests along three tributaries of the Ohio River in unglaciated southeastern Ohio. Two-way indicator species analysis and the first axis of detrended correspondence analysis ordination recovered a successional sequence from pioneer stands to older stands that had more species and exhibited a wider range in species richness than younger stands. The second ordination axis reflected a gradient from stands disturbed by timbering and dominated by Acer negundo, to stands with little human disturbance. Acer saccharinum had the highest importance percentage in 25 and was present in 28 of the 30 stands sampled. Tree species colonizing newly deposited alluvium, Salix nigra, Populus deltoides, A. saccharinum, and A. negundo, were present in nearly all of the stands and remain as major components of floodplain forests in southeastern Ohio for at least 100 years in the absence of human disturbance. Stands from the three rivers are compositionally similar and do not ordinate into clearly distinguishable groups by geographical location or river system.
10.2307/2997028|32 extant species of the genus Nothofagus Bl. are characterized by their leaf architecture. Some essential characters are discussed and general features of leaf architecture at several taxonomic ranks are given. Finally, an illustrated key has been prepared for the identification of the 32 species studied.
10.2307/2996939|The structure, development, and response to fire of sand-live oak (Quercus geminata Small) and myrtle oak (Q. myrtifolia Willd.) colonies (domes) were examined in a longleaf pine-wiregrass (Pinus palustris Mill.-Aristida stricta Michaux.) community in Ocala National Forest, Florida. Dome areas ranged from 30 m
10.2307/2483077|1. Two strains of x-ray mutant wheats, R-1 and R-9, were subjected to 24 hr. long days and 8 hr short days at different ages (2, 3, 4 and 5 weeks). In other experimental sets the same photoperiods were given to 8, 16, 24, and 32-day-old seedlings for different durations of 8 to 32 days. 2. Long days in every case brought about a significant shortening in the vegetative period while short days lengthened the same. With regard to the age of the seedlings at which these treatments showed the maximum effectiveness it was noted that more earliness or lateness was seen in the plants which were youngest at the time of commencement of the long-day or short-day treatments respectively. 3. Long-day conditions produced an adverse effect on grain yield consequent upon the production of less number of heads, smaller lengths of the heads, very poor setting and decrease in absolute grain weight. Short-day conditions on the otherhand, produced beneficial effects in some of these characters but resulted in no marked increases in yield. Acknowledgement. I express my indebtedness to Prof. Shri Ranjan for his guidance and stimulating criticism throughout the progress of the work at the Botanical Laboratory of the Allahabad University. I am thankful to Mr. C. M. Bastia for his help in the preparation of the diagrams and to Prof. B. Samantarai, R. College, Cuttack, for his helpful criticism.
10.2307/2484852|Defined multispore cultures of Ceratopteris thalictroides, C. pteridoides and Matteuccia struthiopteris were observed for characteristics of germination and gametophytic development while growing at specified temperatures on a gradient temperature bar. In Ceratopteris spp., spores did not germinate at 12 C; optimum germination occurred at 22 to 30 C, 3 to 11 days following sowing. Gametophytic development was promoted at the higher tested temperatures, 27 and 30 C. In M. struthiopteris, spores germinated at all tested temperatures, 11 to 27 C. Female and hermaphroditic gametophytes in this species were produced only at 11 and 16 C; gametophytes grown at 22 to 27 C remained male. Characteristics of spore germination and gametophytic responses to temperature correlate with the natural distributions and life cycles of these species. The tropical taxa have optimum development at higher temperatures than does the temperate taxon. The pattern of growth response of M. struthiopteris gametophytes correlates with the winter and early spring discharge of spores. It is hypothesized that a limiting factor controlling the southern distribution of this species may be the inability of gametophytes to complete normal development in warmer temperatures.
10.2307/2484843|Data are presented, from a number of different Piedmont forests of differing successional ages, which extend the recent contention of Buckner and McCracken that yellow-poplar (Liriodendron tulipifera L.) may be an important component of Southern Appalachian climax forests. Our data suggest that yellow-poplar, generally considered a pioneer hardwood on the southeastern Piedmont, is both persistent until climax is attained and highly important in stable, permanent Piedmont forests. Our data and field observations strongly suggest that yellow-poplar growing in conjunction with various upland oaks and hickories may in fact be the typal forest climax of the southeastern Piedmont and that the commonly-referred-to oak-hickory and oak-hickory-pine communities are merely edaphic and/or moisture-controlled variants of the oak-hickory-yellow poplar community.
10.2307/2995919|Bucida spinosa (Northrop) Jennings was based on Terminalia spinosa Northrop, a later homonym of T spinosa Engler, and therefore illegitimate The correct name for this widespread West Indian species is B spinosa Jennings, treated as a nomen novum rather than as a new combination
10.2307/2484539|A three-year study of 16 species of vascular plants at the Morro Bay strand, California determined the magnitude of seasonal response in numbers of plants per m
10.2307/2996624|Solidago shortii T. & G. (Asteraceae) is endemic to a 12.2-km
10.2307/2995976|Four populations of a coastal goldenrod (Solidago sempervirens), varying in habitat and distance from the coast at Island Beach State Park, New Jersey, were compared in growth, phenology, biomass allocation, and reproductive characters. At increasing distances from the coast, these populations were Primary Dune (PD), Dune Hollow (DH), Intermediate (INT), and Bayshore (BAY). Percentage reproductive effort (i.e., proportion of aboveground biomass in reproductive parts) in the field ranged from 13.9 to 28 3% BAY plants were taller and heavier and had the greatest reproductive effort. The BAY population also ranked highest in reproductive potential as indicated by the greatest number of inflorescences and achenes, and achene weights. INT, the only population with even a partial tree cover, was lowest in weight and reproductive characteristics. High allocation to leaves at INT may be a response to shading. In general, those populations (BAY and PD) that occurred in the most unstable sites (subjected to frequent catastrophic events) had a greater reproductive effort and fecundity than those populations (DH and INT) that occurred in the more stable sites. However, strong similarities among greenhouse-grown populations in growth, biomass allocation, and fecundity indicated that most field differences were phenotypic products of the local genotype- environment interaction.
10.2307/2996320|To characterize life history strategies of Florida scrub plants in relation to fire, we classified 98 species into guilds based on recovery mechanisms and post-fire abundance patterns. Two types of scrub were analyzed: xeric, infrequently-burned rosemary scrub and more productive, more-frequently burned scrubby flatwoods. Based on recovery mechanisms, most (92%) species are in four guilds: resprouters (mainly woody shrubs), resprouters and seeders (small-statured shrubs, palms, and herbaceous perennials), obligate seeders (mainly herbs), and resprouters and clonal spreaders. The last category contains most of the dominant shrubs of scrubby flatwoods. Two pine species each comprised a unique guild based on recovery mechanisms. Most species of scrubby flatwoods (59%) and rosemary scrub (53%) had no significant trend in post-fire abundance. About twice as many scrubby flatwoods species increased as decreased in frequency with time since fire; increasers included ground lichens and two of the three dominant oaks. Similar numbers of species increased and decreased in rosemary scrub. Most increasers were ground lichens and most decreasers were herbaceous perennials. In scrubby flatwoods, most plants with vegetative recovery modes tended to increase in frequency with time since fire, mixed recovery mode plants usually had no trend, and obligate seeders decreased. In rosemary scrub, mixed recovery modes were associated with decreasing post-fire trends, while seeders tended to increase in post-fire abundance. Infrequently-burned rosemary scrub provides opportunities for seedling recovery from fire, evident in both in its dominant species and in the many endemic and open-space specialist herbs. In contrast, recovery from fire by resprouting and clonal growth is common in the more-frequently burned scrubby flatwoods, promoting rapid post-fire recovery and long-term competitive superiority in this more productive habitat. To promote life history and species diversity, fire management in Florida scrub should avoid overly regular fire regimes, fire suppression or too-frequent burning. Modal intervals will differ between scrubby flatwoods (520 years) and rosemary scrub (15-40 years). When to reburn rosemary scrub may depend on the specific responses of its many endemic plant species to fire.
10.2307/2482189|1. In this investigation, the intention has been to examine the known species of Spegazzinia from as many type specimens as possible because it is only in this manner that it will ever be possible to know them properly. For instance, without reference to type material there could always be some doubt as to the actual identity of S. trichophila, S. meliolicola, and I. spinosa. Because I was able to study type material, however, this difficulty is obviated and support is derived for the opinion that S. meliolae and others are also identical with I. spinosa although their types have not been available for study. 2. Of the described species, S. brasiliensis Speg. and S. chandleri Hansford have not been studied from specimens. S. chandleri, though not seen, is known from Hansford's clear description and illustrations; and the type of S. brasiliensis appears to be lost (Lindquist, personal communication). It is hoped that these considerations may serve as a basis for monographic work in this genus, and that they may serve to broaden our understanding of some less well-known genera of Hyphomycetes.
10.2307/2483952|Somatic chromosome number of C. burhia Hamilt. is 16. Four types of chromosome pairs are noted after karyotypic analysis, which suggests that this species is more towards the primitive stage.
10.2307/2482282|1. Study of the species of the grass genus Eragrostis has shown that there are the following five undescribed taxa in North and Middle America: E. yucatana, allied to E. oxylepis and E. ekmanii, known only from Yucatan; E. glandulosa, allied to E. hirsuta, known from southern Mexico and northern Central America; E. oreophila, allied to E. intermedia and E. trichocolea; known from the Mexican plateau and southern Baja California; E. praetermissa, allied to E. tracyi, E. trichocolea and E. oreophila, known from Michoacan, Mexico and Guatemala; and E. perplexa, allied to E. pilosa, known from the great plains regions of the United States.
10.2307/2484560|Strawberry plants from 12 distinct populations in California were examined for their "sexual" status. While most of the plants were found to be exclusively pistillate or staminate, many polygamodioecious individuals and 6 full hermaphrodites were discovered. It was concluded that the genes necessary for hermaphrodism are still segregating in many of the populations. The means by which these genes might be maintained are discussed in the paper.
10.2307/2484084|The understory (vascular plants < 1 m tall) of 0.5 ha of old-growth beech-maple forest was resampled five times using each of two contrasting sampling designs: (1) random distributions of 100, 0.5 x 1.0 m plots and (2) an equal number of 0.5 x 10 m plots uniformly spaced along two transects of equal length (50 m), perpendicular to each other, and crossing at the center of the stand. In design (2) axes were kept perpendicular and their direction rotated randomly. Mean floristic similarity (Jaccard's index) between all pairs of replicates (n = 10) within designs (1) and (2) was 0.696 and 0.643, respectively. In no case was chi-square significant at P = 0.05. Both designs determined understory flora with about the same accuracy, with the "true" floristic composition determined by traversing the stand at parallel 5 m intervals and recording all species that came into view. With regard to mean vegetational similarity (percentage similarity coefficient based on frequency and relative cover, total cover = 100), differences between designs were small. Rankings of frequency and cover for relatively common species, i e, those present, on average, in > 10% of the random plots, were highly correlated (P < 0.001). The efficiency with which each sampling design attains accurate estimates of frequency and cover was determined by computing a running mean as plots were randomly added together, and measuring the deviation of the mean from the 100-plot value. The 100-plot value is assumed to be very close to the "true" value for most species of high frequency or cover. On average, the transect method required 59 and 72 plots to attain estimates of frequency and cover, respectively, with 10% of the 100-plot estimate. The random design required 73 and 94 plots. Estimates of frequency by the transect method were more variable than those by the random method regardless of plot number However, the transect method required considerably fewer plots for stable estimates of cover. The principal advantage of the random design is that valid estimates of standard error can be obtained. However, this theoretical advantage is offset by substantial inefficiency and trampling damage in placing plots. The transect design estimates floristic composition and species importance with sufficiently great accuracy and reproducibility to justify its use in comparison of understories of small stands, and at the same time permits efficient study of understory dynamics, since plots can be relocated rapidly with minimal trampling damage.
10.2307/2483824|Fourteen synthetic hybrids were obtained from 20 seeds formed in 36 hand-emasculated florets of E. canadensis exposed to E. glaucus pollen. The hybrids were inter-mediate between the parent plants for most morphological characteristics. The E. canadensis and E. glaucus parents were both tetraploids, 2n = 28, and behaved cytologically as alloploids. Mean chromosome associations in 54 hybrid cells at diakinesis were 0.41 I, 13.59 II, 0.04 III, and 0.07 IV. Chromosome pairing in the hybrids was less complete at metaphase I and averaged 2.38 I, 12.78 II, and 0.02 III in 104 cells. Lagging chromosomes appeared in more than 70% of the cells at anaphase I and II. More than 50% of the quartets contained micronuclei, which averaged 1.45 per quartet. Pollen abortion appeared to be complete in 12 hybrids. Two hybrids produced approximately 0.2% stainable pollen. One hybrid yielded 8 viable seeds, and the remaining hybrids failed to set any seed. The ready cross-compatibility of E. canadensis and E. glaucus and the chromosome pairing in their hybrids suggest that these species are very closely related. These data were fully consistent with the hypothesis that many self-fertilizing species of Agropyron, Elymus, and Sitanion contain the same basic genomes. Some taxonomic implications of these data were discussed.
10.2307/2482595|1. Eleven unrecorded species of Physoderma from various herbaria in the United States, Canada and Argentina are described on new hosts. 2. Only the endobiotic resting sporangial stage is present in these specimens, and nothing is known about ectobiotic evanescent sporangia, zoospores, and the germination of the resting sporangia. 3. Whether or not any of these species are new remains to be proven from more intensive developmental as well as host range studies. Several of them will probably prove to be identical to previously known species.
10.2307/2482502|1 No difference in chromosome number between parent plant and cutting was observed in any of the plant types examined A study of microsporogenesis revealed that both the parent plant and cutting had identical chromosome numbers There was some indication that the chromosome number of the flower was determined early in development and that in these cells no subsquent variation occurred. This would indicate the possible presence of a germ track. 2. Seeds from each of the plant types gave rise to progeny of various chromosomal constitutions. The majority of the plants had one, two or three supernumerary chromosomes. This variation could be explained by non-disjunction or cross pollination. 3. The evidence indicated that all the supernumeraries were homologous 4. A study of adventitious roots revealed a variation in the number of chromosomes within each of the plant types.
10.2307/2483793|The gametophytes of the three Latin American species of Equisetum are described. One, E. giganteum, is normally bisexual, and produces both archegonia and antheridia simultaneously from the same meristem. Another, E. myriochaetum, produces initially some antheridial and some archegonial gametophytes. The latter, with age and in the absence of fertilization, cease bearing archegonia and develop antheridial lobes. The third species, E. bogotense, also produces unisexual gametophytes, but these are dimorphic and were never observed to change sex. Thus there appears to be a series illustrating development from a primitively bisexual condition to a stable unisexual condition through an intermediate plastic unisexuality. It is suggested that this may have been the pathway followed by both heterosporous vascular plants and seed plants in their evolution.
10.2307/2482562|Seaward populations were compared in two contiguous locations differing only in wave action. Substrate, tidal effects, temperature, light penetration, and currents were identical or nearly so at both locations. Harbor and tidal characteristics made unlikely significant differences in salinity, pollution, chemical characteristics, and pH. Successional changes were minimized by a brief collection period. In one location (windward) wave action was moderate and nearly continuous. In the other (lee), waves were nearly always absent. A quadrat-transect method was used to study inter-and sub-tidal vegetation. Calothrix and Enteromorpha linza belts and Fucus spiralis were limited to the windward location. The belt of Fucus spp. was 6 in. to 1 ft. lower in the lee location. The zone occupied in the windward location by Enteromorpha linza was populated in the lee location by the lowered Fucus belt and an upward extension of Chondrus crispus (and associated algae) compared with their upper windward limit. Fucus varied between locations in presence of bladders, number of germlings, and size of plants. The windward location presented more species than the lee. Differences were found in the distributions of 15 species other than those named above. Average quadrat crop did not vary significantly from one location to the other.
10.2307/2484680|The anatomy and development of the lateral ramulinal gametangia of two monoecious species of the genus Tolypella, T. intricata Leonh. and T. glomerata (Desv. in Lois) Leonh. were analyzed. The clustered gametangia all arise from separate peripheral cells of the branchlet node with the exception of geminate oogonia which can originate from a single peripheral cell. Both lateral antheridia and oogonia are supported by 2-celled stalks. These anatomical features, which were indecisively analyzed by previous workers, are compared with those of the other genus of the tribe Nitelleae, Nitella The present discussion concludes that Tolypella should remain as a distinct genus. Wood's conjecture that this taxon could be reduced to a section of Nitella seems to be unfounded
10.2307/2483610|The endosperm development and method of filling up its central vacuole is studied in 15 plants of the Cucurbitaceae, one each of Caricaceae, Passifloraceae, and two of Violaceae. The nucleated cytoplasmic nodules are observed in Carica papaya only, while enucleate types occur in Passiflora foetida, Blastania fimbristipula, Cucumis melo var. pubescens, Cyclanthera explodens, Dicoelospermum ritchiei, Echinocystis wrightii, Edgaria darjeelingensis, Herpetospermum pendunculosum, Luffa acutangula (hermaphrodite var.), Momordica charantia and Sechium edule. No cytoplasmic nodules are recorded in the endosperm of Coccinia cordifolia, Gymnopetalum cochinchinense, Luffa graveolens, Melothria maderaspatana, Ionidium suffruticosum and Viola tricolor. Generally the nodules are found to be better developed in plants of the higher altitudes or temperate regions. Only weakly developed nodules may occur in plants of warmer regions. The nodules grow, fuse and ultimately amalgamate with the general cytoplasm of the endosperm. It is shown to be an active method of the filling up of the central vacuole of the embryo sac.
10.2307/2483873|A technique is described in detail which can be used for quantitative estimation of volumes of aqueous solutions in the range from 0.02 to 10  l. The principle on which the technique is based is that aqueous solutions produce wet spots on filter paper and the size of the spot increases with increase in volume. The technique is capable, with careful use, of providing quantitative accuracy to within 10%. The principal advantages of the technique are its simplicity, the rapidity with which measurements can be made, and the potential adaptability for a variety of other problems.
10.2307/2484465|The increase in bituminous coal spoils revegetated with conifers has resulted in an increase in favorable conditions for the growth of Pisolithus tinctorius (Pers.) Coker and Couch. This ectomycorrhizal fungus was found associated with seven conifers and two hardwoods growing on bituminous spoils. Larix leptolepis and Picea glauca are two new records as Pisolithus associates. Tree species averaged 1.5-4.4 basidiocarps per tree with an average basidiocarp dry weight of 52.19 g. More than one-third of Pinus strobus trees were associated with Pisolithus basidiocarps. Most tree species had less than 1% of the trees associated with Pisolithus basidiocarps. Approximately 98% of the basidiocarps were found in a zone up to 162 cm from the outside of the tree dripline. This zone was sparsely vegetated and averaged 11% ground cover. No Pisolithus basidiocarps were found on limestone or sand-gravel spoils or bituminous spoils revegetated with grasses and legumes.
10.2307/2996227|To determine the influence of old-field woody vegetation height on the dispersal pattern of bird-disseminated plants, white ash (Fraxinus americana) saplings, of similar size and shape, were cut and placed on stakes at various heights (0.5-3.0 m) in a 1 ha field in central New Jersey. From August 9 to December 30, 1981 a total of 1247 seeds was collected from under the saplings in a total trap surface of 36 m
10.2307/2995902|The age structures of four wooded stands, representing a range of pine and oak forests on a Maryland serpentine area, were sampled Ring counts from increment borings showed distinct age clusters in three of the stands These indicated past episodes of recruitment, which may reflect disturbance of the stands by fire or drought
10.2307/2484697|Transplants (and/or their descendants) of Dionaea muscipula (Venus fly trap) have survived for at least 22 years and have produced viable seed in the New Jersey Pine Barrens in a bog approximately 528 km north of the species' natural northern limit.
10.2307/2996519|A new species of Tapura, T. ferreyrae is described. It is the third neotropical species of the genus with the inflorescence arising from the midrib of the leaf.
10.2307/2996916|Composition, structure and radial growth patterns were studied in relatively undisturbed, mature mixed-oak (Quercus), valley floor forests and in similar forests extensively logged between 1936-1946 in central Pennsylvania. These data were analyzed in relation to presettlement forest composition and historical fire records to investigate temporal variation in Quercus recruitment versus accelerated succession of more shade tolerant species following logging. Presettlement valley floor forests in the study area were dominated by Quercus alba and Pinus strobus. Recurring logging and fire between 1780-1900 associated with charcoal iron furnace activity increased Quercus and decreased Pinus dominance in second-growth forests established during that period. Between 1908-1989 the total area burned by wildfire throughout Pennsylvania decreased by >99% (from >400,000 ha to <3500 ha per year). The decreased influence of logging and fire this century facilitated recruitment of later successional Acer and Prunus species in Quercus forest understories. Logging of forests in this condition rapidly accelerated the rate of obtaining canopy dominance for A. rubrum, A. saccharum and P. serotina in area forests. This form of disturbance-mediated accelerated succession should be anticipated in a wide variety of forest types with an overstory dominated by early successional species and an understory comprised mainly of later successional species.
10.2307/2483685|Synthetic triploid hybrids, 2n = 21, between allotetraploid Agropyron scribneri Vasey, 2n = 28, and diploid A. spicatum (Pursh) Scribn. & Smith, 2n = 14, averaged 6.91
10.2307/2483791|Plants of two evergreen species from arid climates were more conservative in use of water and energy reserves during induced drought than were related winter deciduous species having centers of distribution in cooler, moister climates.
10.2307/2997150|1. The relationships and phylogeny of Synchytrium are not certain. The aquatic species, which were formerly included in Micromyces and now constitute the subgenus Microsynchytrium, however, show close affinity with Micromycopsis and Endodesmidium, two aquatic genera of the family Synchytriaceae. 2. In postulating relationships and phylogeny within the family on the basis of presence or absence of prosporangia, secondary sporangia and secondary zoospores, Micromycopsis cristata and M. fischeri might be regarded as primitive. 3. From these species suppression of secondary sporangia and secondary zoospores may have occurred along several lines: (1) through M. intermedia and M. mirabilis to the subgenus Microsynchytrium by way of Synchytrium ovale which occasionally forms exit canals; (2) through Endodesmidium formosum to Microsynchytrium; or (3) through Micromycopsis zygnaemicola, in which only one zoospore stage is known, to Microsynchytrium. 4. The subgenus Microsynchytrium might be regarded as a link connecting Micromycopsis and Endodesmidium with the terrestrial species of Synchytrium, which may possibly have retrogressed in complexity of life cycle as they began to parasitize land plants
10.2307/2995901|Little Talbot Island State Park, located east of Jacksonville, Florida, 30
10.2307/2483214|1. Three crustose lichen fungi, Acarospora fuscata (Nyl.) Arn., Buellia stillingiana Steiner, and Sarcogyne similis Magn., were isolated from the symbiont lichen thallus by germinating ejaculated ascospores. All isolates grew comparatively rapidly on malt extract-yeast extract agar and in synthetic liquid media. No ascocarps or lichen acids were produced in pure culture. Buellia stillingiana formed conidia when CaCl
10.2307/2996402|Between 1986-1987, 259 locations with American chestnut trees were examined in Michigan's lower peninsula. One hundred forty-four locations had trees with chestnut blight disease, while at 115 locations blight was not found. All locations combined had 1492 (75%) diseased trees and 493 (25%) disease-free trees  10 cm dbh. At 52 locations with blight 9813 chestnut trees less than 10 cm dbh were located and examined, while at 22 blight-free locations 4161 chestnut trees were found. At forty-two locations in Michigan, American chestnut trees had abnormal cankers and were recovering from the effects of chestnut blight disease. Quantitative measures were established at these locations to determine the extent of hypovirulence. At these locations there were 989 chestnut trees  10 cm dbh and 3233 smaller chestnuts. It appears that initially all locations with abnormal cankers had normal virulent blight. Only after a lag of 1525 years did abnormal cankers appear. The percentages of abnormal cankers and live branches above those cankers were determined for all 42 locations and compared to soil texture. Between 13% and 100% of the cankers at each location were abnormal. The percentage of live branches above abnormal cankers ranged from 41% to 100% per location. Trees on sites with sandy soils had more abnormal cankers and more surviving stems above them than those on heavier textured soils. Possible ecological factors which may explain the differential success of hypovirulence on different soil types include: (1) a better competitive advantage of the American chestnut on well drained sandy soils, (2) the origin of hypovirulence from sandy textured soils, and (3) more dispersing agents of hypovirulent strains on sandy textured soils.
10.2307/2483686|A series of cytological changes is observed in the characteristics of mitosis in Ornithogalum virens as it matures from germination to flowering. These changes, taken in the order of their occurrence during ontogeny include: (1) A change from separated sister chromatids to closely associated sister chromatids at metaphase; (2) a change from comparatively long to short metaphase chromosomes; (3) a change from widely separated chromosomes on the metaphase plate to closely associated short arms of the chromosomes on the metaphase plate; (4) and a change from no pairing of chromosomes to chromosomes being fairly commonly paired in both somatic and premeiotic sporogenous tissue. These changes give mitotic divisions an increasingly meiotic appearance and are termed premeiotic changes. The possible significance of premeiotic changes in relation to preparation for meiosis is discussed.
10.2307/2996843|We have repeated a survey of soil pH and native herbaceous vegetation conducted in 1922 by E. T. Wherry, at a site on Long Island, New York. There has been a dramatic decline in surface soil pH. Ridgetops currently have an average pH of 3.8, slopes 3.9, and bottomlands 4.1; bottomlands are today more acidic than ridgetops were in 1922. There has also been a simplification of dominant flora and a dramatic shift to dominance in all habitats of the site by acid-tolerant taxa such as Maianthemum canadense, Viburnum acerifolium, and Aster divaricatus, and a loss of such taxa as Geranium maculatum, Sanguinaria canadensis, and Medeola virginiana. The influence of acidic precipitation on these changes cannot be demonstrated, but remains the most plausible explanation.
10.2307/2997166|Agalinis strictifolia (Benth.) Penn. (Scrophulariaceae) is a self-incompatible annual distributed from central Texas south into northern Mexico. In central Texas, flowering can begin in mid-July and continue through mid-October. Pollinators are Bombus pennsylvanicus and Apis mellifera. Previous field experiments have shown that two populations differ in seed production from single bee visit experiments (Wellhouse population with a high seed production and Firefly Meadow population with a low seed production). An isozyme study was undertaken to discern whether any differences in genetic structure existed between the two populations that might be associated with the difference in seed production. Populations of A. strictifolia maintain high levels of genetic diversity with values ranging from 0.200 to 0.233. Values of F
10.2307/2996128|Lake Mize is a brown-water lake containing large amounts of dissolved organic materials near Gainesville, Florida. In May, 1968, eight aquatic macrophytes were present in the lake, including the submerged Eleocharis baldwinii (Torr.) Chapm., Sphagnum macrophyllum Bernh. and Mayace aubleti Michx. as well as the emergent Pancium hemitomon Schultes. and Leersia oryzoides (L.) Swartz. In the latter part of 1968, a flock of mallard ducks were placed on the lake by another investigator. Food given the ducks but not utilized resulted in accelerated eutrophication of the lake with accompanying changes in the aquatic flora. By May 1970, three of the aquatics had disappeared from the lake-two of the three submerged species and the emergent L. oryzoides. Also, the population of P. hemitomon had increased greatly, appearing as a dense growth around the shoreline. The ducks were removed in 1972. A partial recovery of the lake then occurred with most species, which had disappeared during the eutrophic phase, reappearing by the spring of 1980 and P. hemitomon declining. Eleven species of aquatics were present in 1980.
10.2307/2996104|Two study areas in the lower coastal plain of South Carolina were sampled to describe sites containing Gordonia lasianthus, and to evaluate natural regeneration, define phenological relations, and estimate tree growth of Gordonia The canopy of the sampled sites in both study areas was primarily composed of Gordonia, Nyssa sylvatica, Persea borbonia, Pinus taeda and Pinus serotina, with Lyonia lucida most common in the understory Average density of stems greater than 3 cm DBH (trees) was 1,912 stems/ha, with a basal area of 25 m
10.2307/2997052|Strandline seed microsite conditions were simulated in the laboratory to investigate the importance of organic material (wrack), seed burial depth, temperature, and moisture on germination and emergence of Cakile edentula (sea rocket). Viability of seeds in petri dishes (12 hr photoperiod and day-night temperature of 23.2/11.6
10.2307/2483855|The most markedly woody species of Plantago are insular. Detailed anatomical descriptions, quantitative data, and photomicrogiaphs are presented for woods of P. arborescens (Canary Islands, lowlands), P. maderensis (Madeira, lowlands), P. webbii (Canary Islands, alpine areas), P. fernandeziana (Juan Fernandez Islands, rain forests), and P. princeps (Hawaiian Islands, shady areas in rain forest). Vessel element length and width are greatest in the rain-forest species, least in the alpine species These expressions seem clearly correlated with degrees of xeromorphy or mesomorphy. Plantago woods are all basically rayless, but rays are eventually formed in larger stems of the species from Macaronesia (the term given collectively to the Cape Verde Islands, Canary Islands, Madeira, Azores, and nearby islands). Rayless woods as exemplified by Plantago tend to occur in dicotyledons in which (1) cambial activity is limited or finite; (2) woodiness is phyletically in the process of increase, rather than decrease; (3) fusiform cambial initials are relatively short; and (4) juvenilism or paedomorphosis occurs.
10.2307/2483445|Walton's transfer technique has been modified for use with polyester plastics and epoxy resins. Besides conferring conveniences in handling and processing, these materials allow the preparation of large size transfers.
10.2307/2996252|The effective concentrations of Cd which reduced the population growth of Chlorella saccharophila, Navicula incerta and Nitzschia closterium by 50% after 96 hrs. of exposure (EC
10.2307/2483543|This research describes the morphological variation found in 11 New Jersey populations of Opuntia compressa (Salisb.) Macbr. Anatomical, cytological, and morphological parameters are evaluated. Morphological and anatomical data were analyzed using an analysis of variance for factorial design and the Just Significant Interval test. The quantitative morphological variation could not be correlated with a north-south geographical distribution of the populations; and neither did the qualitative characteristics correlate with geographical trends in color variation. These data indicate that this taxon in New Jersey should be treated as a single species displaying wide morphological variation, without infraspecific taxa.
10.2307/2996743|Polystichum acrostichoides (Christmas fern) is a widespread and abundant understory plant in deciduous forests of eastern North America. This species has a wintergreen leaf lifespan, in which a cohort of fronds expands in April-May and senesces the following spring as the next frond cohort expands. Because the wintergreen leaf lifespan confers the opportunity for photosynthetic C gain during moderate days in late autumn and winter, we hypothesized that the plant should delay nutrient resorption (retranslocation) from fronds until spring, thus rendering the plant susceptible to overwinter resource loss. We monitored foliar nutrient levels in three cohorts of P. acrostichoides fronds in each of three forest stands which differed in soil fertility, and also made periodic measurements of gas exchange. Polystichum acrostichoides exhibited the capacity for positive net photosynthesis during moderate winter days, with net winter fixation rates similar to those reported for other understory plants during the summer. Foliar N and P concentrations differed significantly among forest sites. Foliar N was highest in plants from the site with the greatest soil N availability but foliar P was not higher at sites with higher P. Nutrient resorption occurred throughout the autumn, winter, and spring, and averaged 54.3% of maximum foliar P and 53.4% of N, with no indication of a significant bias towards autumnal or vernal resorption. N resorption did not differ among sites or correlate well with site fertility; P resorption was greatest in the intermediate fertility site. There was no clear linkage among foliar nutrient concentrations, resorption, winter C gain, and site fertility.
10.2307/2483601|A distinct vegetational pattern in the Santa Ynez Valley of Santa Barbara County, California, involves the relative positions of two shrub species, Ceanothus cuneatus and Salvia leucophylla. The pattern indicates that Ceanothus, essentially alone, now occupies areas recently shared by both species. Several possible mechanisms of suppression of one shrub by the other were tested experimentally. Ceanothus material was shown by bioassay to lack effective phytotoxins. Measurements of soil moisture failed to reveal significant differences between Ceanothus and Salvia stands. A comparison of soil nutrients showed no significant depletion by Ceanothus. It was shown that Ceanothus stands interfere sufficiently with the light reaching the enclosed Salvia plants, which are of smaller stature, to suppress and kill them. Thus light competition is shown to account for the observed suppression.
10.2307/2996919|The ultrastructure of six discoid shaped pollen grains recovered from Lower Cretaceous deposits from DSDP-361 and the Sunday's River Formation (Southern Africa) were studied. Four grains from the Aptian-Albian interval of DSDP-361 have affinities with Cyclusphaera psilata and a single grain has affinities with Balmeiopsis limbatus. A single grain from the Sunday's River Fm. (Valanginian-Hauterivian) exhibits features of Araucariacites australis. Discoid pollen occurs in a few fossil taxa believed to have gymnosperm affinities and the extant angiosperm family Acanthaceae. Pollen shape, in concert with wall structure, may function to withstand compression and expansion loads exerted on a pollen grain due to changing environmental conditions during pollen transfer. These loads are evenly distributed over the surface of a spherical to slightly oblate or prolate pollen grain. These loads are unevenly distributed in disc shaped pollen and the structural strength to withstand these loads is transferred to the rim of the disc. The occurrence of this pollen shape in widely disparate taxa in time and space, and the selective pressure that might have led to this pollen shape, may be due to some unique aspect of the environment or reproductive biology.
10.2307/2484575|Juncus interior Wieg. and Juncus bufonius L. plants contain silica in the forms of both opal and  quartz. The despositional pattern of silica in leaves is reported. Spherical particles occur in rows, and a more continuous layer is fibrous. The silica content of the entire above-ground portion of the plants of J. interior increased nearly eight-fold during a growing season.
10.2307/2484834|Chromosomal and crossability characteristics of variable populations of O. hernandesii did not correlate with morphological and ecological data of the same species. In O. hernandesii, attempted crosses among diploids (n=7) either produced viable seed or failed, while all crosses among tetraploids (n=14) produced viable seed. Two sympatric populations containing plants which represent the two extremes of morphological variation in O. hernandesii were found and may signify an example of character displacement; the variants in these field populations maintain their morphological distinctions and apparently do not hybridize although both forms are diploids and are crossable under greenhouse conditions. These observations and results suggest that the populations of O, hernandesii have diversified independently of each other and are adapted to specific ecological habitats.
10.2307/2484113|Acetylcholine promotes the growth of wheat apical coleoptile segments, with no clear optimal concentration from 5 mM to 0.1 M. The interaction of red light (660 nm) and 500 M acetylcholine depends on the time of addition of acetylcholine and red light to the excised segments. When exposure to red light is given immediately following excision, as the time of addition of acetylcholine is delayed from 0 to 6 hr after excision, the inhibitory effect of acetylcholine on the red light promotion of growth decreases from 34 to 0%. If exposure to red light follows 0 to 6 hr after addition of segments to acetylcholine, the red light effect is inhibited from 36 to 27%, until at 4 hr, growth equivalent to the red light control is achieved. When the red light and acetylcholine are added concomitantly 0 to 6 hr after excision, growth equivalent to the red light control is achieved at 6 hr. The interaction of IAA and acetylcholine depends on the concentration of IAA and acetylcholine used. As the concentration of acetylcholine increases from 0 to 750 M, the inhibition of IAA stimulation of growth increases. The degree of inhibition increases as the concentration of IAA increases from 2.5 to 100 M, the optimum. No interaction of GA
10.2307/2483276|Isolated vesicle stalks from mature lemon fruits (Eureka variety) proliferate extensively for extended periods on a defined nutrient medium of inorganic salts and sucrose. Subcultures indicated that this tissue may be capable of indefinite culture under the conditions employed.
10.2307/2996449|Phlox idahonis is a narrow endemic known fromfour metapopulations in north-central Idaho. Due to its extreme rarity, past habitat loss, and ongoing disturbances, Phlox idahonis is a candidate for listing under the Endangered Species Act. Seven permanent plots were established in mountain meadows containing Phlox idahonis in 1978 and resampled in 1993. Direct gradient analysis of vascular plant cover data indicated that livestock grazing intensity explained a majority of the floristic variation in the plots. Two secondary variables, physiognomic meadow type and soil water content, explained much of the remaining variation. Ramet density for all plots over the 15-year monitoring period indicated that Phlox idahonis remained stable. There were, however, significant intersample differences. Ramet density increased in one plot for unexplained reasons and decreased in another, probably resulting from post-fire succession at this plot. Phlox disappeared completely from one plot. Ramet density and vegetation composition and structure data suggest that intense livestock grazing caused the disappearance. Our results indicate that no grazing and moderate levels of grazing are not detrimental. We recommend that all populations be protected from further direct habitat loss, grazing be excluded from heavily grazed meadows to facilitate recovery, and permanent plots be sampled every five years.
10.2307/2481960|1. The ovary of the prune is uniloculate, enclosing two anatropous ovules. One of the ovules disintegrates during fruit development. 2. In the formation of the drupaceous fruit, three internal histogen-like layers of the ovary give rise to three distinct tissues of the pit: the inner epidermis forms a multiseriate layer of vertically elongated sclereids; the next outer stratum of cells forms a multiseriate layer of tangentially elongated sclereids; and the following 2-4 layers produce a zone of isodiametric sclereids. 3. The skin of the fruit is composed of the cuticle, epidermis (which may be periclinally divided at various places), and 2-6 layers of collenchymatous cells derived from two hypodermal layers in the ovary. No lenticels are formed. 4. The flesh includes most of the vascular bundles of the fruit, which are embedded in parenchymatous tissue. 5. Two ovular bundles are embedded in the lignified tissues of the pit. Lying in sulci at the surface of the pit are the dorsal bundle and two wing bundles. 6. Evidence is presented that the dorsal and wing bundles are equivalent to the three bundles of the other foliar organs of Prunus and that the ovular bundles are separate structures. 7. The suggestion that the rosacean carpel is primitively a five-trace organ is supported by a comparative review of the structure of the carpel in other members of the Rosaceae.
10.2307/2484885|The chromosome-breaking action of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) was tested in Tradescantia paludosa microsporocytes. The dosage levels used were 5 and 10 g/ml. Microsporocytes from treated and control buds were analysed for general cytological effects of the drug, chromosome association and distribution, isolocus breaks and their released fragments, chromatid bridge-fragment configurations at ana-telophase I and II, subchromatid bridge-fragment configurations at ana-telophase I and II and pollen viability. The data presented indicate that 5-FU-induced meiotic anomalies were the consequence of breakage-fusion events accompanied by changes in chiasma distribution and patterns of exchange events. 5-FU interference with a macromolecular synthesizing apparatus, leading to abnormal genetic regulation of meiosis, is postulated to be responsible for the observed changes in chiasma distribution and patterns of exchange events.
10.2307/2996511|The misapplication of the names Hemizonia congesta DC. and Hemizonia corymbosa (DC.) T. & G. has resulted from the lack of critical examination of type specimens, misinterpretation of the protologues of de Candolle, and his failure to distinguish clearly the differences between the ray achene morphology of the species. This has led to confusion with respect to the proper assignment of subsequently collected specimens. Historical events detailing this situation are provided. Typifications and synonymies are given for these species. A new species, Hemizonia leucocephala, is described to accommodate unnamed specimens formerly attributed to H. congesta.
10.2307/2481848|1. Tetrazolium chloride can be reduced to a red insoluble formazan within cells of many plants. This makes visible numerous structures such as mitochondria, plastids, fat droplets, and crystals. The plastids are of various shapes; spheres, coiled filaments, ribbons, and rolled sheets. 2. It was demonstrated that in an emulsion of fat in water produced by ultrasonic vibrations the fat droplets could be stained by formazan. 3. It was further demonstrated that fat droplets of the emulsion could take up formazan previously formed in meristematic cells of root tips. 4. It seems probable, therefore, that tetrazolium chloride is not a specific test for reducing enzymes nor is the occurrence of formazan in a structure proof that it was formed by that structure. 5. Since most plant embryos contain oil which may persist after the death of the embryo (as regards enzymes) and since this oil can be stained under certain conditions, it is not surprising that the TTC test for seed viability is not exact.
10.2307/2484730|The germination of dark-germinating seeds of cucumber is strongly inhibited by continuous exposure to blue, far red or white radiation. About 15-25% of the seeds that do not germinate under continuous blue radiation become green at the distal ends of the cotyledons. The green, non-germinated seeds contain chlorophyll, and their chloroplasts show some development of thylakoids and grana. The green, non-germinated seeds have higher rates of light-dependent oxygen evolution and ATP formation than the non-green, non-germinated seeds. These results indicate that the inhibition of germination does not completely prevent the initiation of the complex and integrated sequence of reactions required for the development of the photosynthetic apparatus.
10.2307/2996286|Vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal spore densities varied among sample areas ranging from 200 cm
10.2307/2482336|1. Casparian strips are present in cells of a specialized layer of the leaf at the ligule base of Isoetes muricata var. Braunii.2. The name ligule-endodermis is suggested for this specialized tissue. 3. A considerable supply of tracheids are present at the ligule base and are very closely associated with the endodermis, many of them being in contact with the walls of the endodermal cells. 4. The ligule-endodermis of I. muricata var. Braunii and I. macrospora are alike in structure but differ in nuclear and cell size. 5. The presence of a ligule-endodermis in two species of Isoetes indicate the probability of its occurrence in other species of the genus. 6. The location of the ligule-endodermis, its high degree of development, and its association with vascular tissue seem to indicate that it is related functionally to the ligule. The writer wishes to thank Dr. Eugene S. McDonough and Dr. William N. Steil for critical reading of the note and examination of the preparations.
10.2307/2482989|1. Turtle grass, Thalassia testudinum, is abundant in the shallow wellilluminated waters of Puerto Rico and other tropical areas. The standing crop of Thalassia, ranging up to about 33 tons per acre, provides shelter for many species of animals, and contains large amounts of basic foodstuffs, in the form of proteins 13%, crude fiber 16%, and other carbohydrates 36%. 2. Among thc 12 amino acids assayed, the most abundant were aspartic and glutamic acids, arginine, lysine and leucine. Tryptophan was relatively scarce. 3. Marine bacteria convert organic constituents of Thalassia to microparticulate food suitable for protozoa, which are in turn available to smaller and larger animals. 4. Some fishes, notably the ballahoo, may feed almost exclusively on leaves of Thalassia at certain times. 5. Much work remains to be done on the ecology of Thalassia and its contribution in the cycle of productivity through intermediary conversion by bacteria and protozoa.
10.2307/2484416|Seeds of the annual plant species Helenium amarum (Compositae) germinated to low percentages in continuous darkness. However, three to five exposures to daily photoperiods of 1 to 60 min greatly increased the percentage of germination over the dark controls. The amount of germination obtained at a particular photoperiod depends on the number of times the photoperiod is given and on the temperature. At 20
10.2307/2483977|Leaf buds in virus infected plants of tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill. variety Crack Proof) were observed in the axillary position along the rachis. Factors causing leaf bud formation in tomato are discussed in the light of relevant literature. It is suggested that the study of material accumulation and hormonal level in different transient stages of plant, i. e. normal, growth up to the stage of leaf bud formation may throw some light on the mechanism of normal organogenesis in higher plants
10.2307/2483672|In a plant of Aloe vera L. a part of root system was found to have diminished chromosome number 2n = 10 rather than 2n = 14. The missing chromosomes could be recognized. The pollen mother cells had regular 2n = 14. Meiotic anomalies like asynapsis, lagging chromosomes, bridges with or without fragments and side loops (side arms), and delayed disjunction of some bivalents were noted. Possible origins of such aberrations are discussed.
10.2307/2996389|A number of studies have tested whether reproductive effort (RE) is correlated with successional maturity; in these, annuals generally had higher RE than herbaceous perennials (29 and 13%), and RE in herbs often diminished as succession progressed. It is not clear whether these patterns were the result of phenotypic or genetic variation.
10.2307/2996318|When the first-formed, velamentous aerial root of Spathoglottis plicata (Orchidaceae) attached to meprotocorm was incubated in
10.2307/2484548|Vaucheria longicaulis Hoppaugh var. longicaulis is reported here for the first time from near oligohaline habitat in Basrah, Iraq.
10.2307/2483294|Results in a recent report on experimentally induced oospore variation in Chara are difficult to compare with the results of a systematic study cited. A discussion is submitted to indicate some problems involved and some information desired, hoping that this will be helpful in future work of this kind.
10.2307/2482518|1 The chlorophyll a and chlorophyll b content of 75 samples of green, oolong and black tea have been determined by a spectrophotometric method. 2. The average total chlorophyll content of the green teas examined was 1.39 mg./gm. Comparable figures for oolong and black teas were 0.82 mg/gm and 1.01 mg./gm respectively. 3. The percentage of chlorophyll a averaged 81.1 per cent in green teas, 78 5 per cent in oolong teas and 70 9 per cent in black teas.
10.2307/2483295|Among the major scientific problems of the Nuclear Age are those which deal with the collection of data and the development of concepts to be used in making realistic, quantitative evaluations of the biological hazards, if any, resulting from increased environmental radiation due to fallout. This paper presents a brief review of some of the ecological aspects of these problems. The major topics considered are: (a) the kinds and amounts of "natural" and "man-made" sources of ionizing radiation in the biosphere, (b) the formation and dispersal of fallout, including a comparison of local, tropospheric and stratospheric fallout patterns, (c) the redistribution of fallout materials by environmental processes, their accumulation by plants and animals, and their cycling in terrestrial food-chains, and (d) the evaluation of potential biological hazards arising from small increases in external and internal exposure of organisms to ionizing radiation.
10.2307/2482158|1. Respiratory response of four species of monocots and three species of dicots to change in acidity and to maleic hydrazide was investigated. 2. The effect of increase in acidity alone from pH 6.0 to pH 4.0 was to stimulate respiration in pea, sunflower, maize, barley and oat; while under similar conditions respiration in tomato and wheat was depressed. 3. Respiration of root tips of none of the species tested was appreciably affected by maleic hydrazide at pH 6.0; but as the maleic hydrazide solutions were increased in acidity oxygen consumption of all seven species decreased. 4. Respiration of barley, wheat, and oat roots was more severely affected by all concentrations of maleic hydrazide used-0.05, 0.10, 0.20, and 0.40 per cent-than roots of any of the other plants tested. Pea and maize roots were most resistant to maleic hydrazide poisoning, while those proving intermediate in response were sunflower and tomato. 5. Inhibition of respiration in maize and oat by maleic hydrazide increased with time. 6. Possible modes of action of maleic hydrazide on the respiratory mechanism are discussed.
10.2307/2996322|Pines readily invade small old fields in the southeastern United States,but continuing observations on a large old field in South Carolina have indicated limited initial invasion and subsequently poor reproductive success by loblolly pines. To generate hypotheses concerning the poor reproductive success of pines, studies were conducted of seed production, seedling establishment, and seedling survival and growth. Production of viable seeds was similar to data for other loblolly pine sites, but seed dispersal distances were short with most seeds being deposited within 20 m of the parent. The rate of establishment of 1 yr old seedlings was  1 seedling per 3000 viable seeds, which was small compared to data for other loblolly pine sites. Most seedlings were established within 20 m of their parents. Once established, seedlings showed survivorship and growth that was typical for loblolly pines. These initial results suggest: 1) that the most important limitation to reproductive success may be the low rates of seedling establishment from seeds; but 2) that limited seed dispersal distances may represent an important secondary limitation.
10.2307/2996228|In 1982 an organizational framework for the ordering of algal toxicity responses was proposed (Rachlin et al. 1982). This framework assumed that physiological responses were, in fact, character states, and therefore could be ordered by linking these responses to the organismic relationships deduced through the methodology of phylogenetic systematics. That is, closely related species should respond to environmental stress in a similar fashion. The original test was based on growing and testing organisms under optimal conditions. If the proposed framework is to have utility it must also operate under less than optimal conditions. This study tested this notion. Three algal species Chlorella saccharophila, Navicula incerta, and Nitzschia closterium were cultured under identical and non-optimal growth conditions and then challenged with the metal toxicant cadmium for 96 hours under static conditions. Logarithmic response curves for the test Cadmium concentrations were generated and the respective slopes were found to be -1.27, -1.65, and -1.57. Analysis of covariance indicated no significant difference in the response rates of the two diatoms Navicula and Nitzschia but each was significantly different from the response rate of the chlorophyte Chlorella. These results are consistent with the framework's prediction that organisms more closely related to each other will respond to environmental stress in a more consistent fashion than either will when compared to less closely related taxa; this, regardless of whether they are grown under optimal conditions or not. Hence, the proposed organizational framework holds and has predictive value.
10.2307/2996466|To monitor survival, reproduction, and seedling recruitment of Pedicularis furbishiae S. Wats. (Furbish's lousewort), a restricted riverbank endemic, we established permanent plots at seven sites. Within sites, plants were concentrated in a horizontal band only 1-2 m wide, which makes the populations vulnerable to local disturbances and suggests that very specific conditions favor Pedicularis growth. Density, percentage of plants in each size class, and the quantities of inflorescences and seeds produced varied considerably among populations. Seedlings emerged from late June through August, except at one site which completely lacked seedlings Eighty-one per cent of the seedlings survived the summer; survival was higher at sites with wetter soil. Seedlings occurred disproportionately on moss rather than on bare soil, gravel, or litter. Flower initiation and number of inflorescences produced were positively correlated with plant size, although dense cover reduced seed output. Disturbance, as ice scour or bank slumping, destroys individual plants and creates conditions inhospitable for immediate colonization, but it seems important in maintaining suitable habitat, since dense vegetation appeared to limit lousewort density Pedicularis furbishiae's rarity can be described by its narrow ecological "windows" both in time and in space.
10.2307/2996335|This study of bur oak (Quercus macrocarpa) in east-central Illinois examines some ecological consequences of the variation in seed number per acorn. The frequency of double-seeded acorns ranges from 0-20% per tree (n = 17 trees). Insect damage of acorns per tree ranges from 43-100%. Such infestation reduces the probability of germination per seed. At least one seed escapes insect damage more often in double- than single-seeded acorns. In double-seeded acorns, a seed's weight is approximately one-half that of single-seeded acorns of the same tree, but the proportion of acorn biomass allocated to seeds is similar in the two types of acorns. Germination of the two seeds is fairly synchronous in double-seeded acorns. The resulting two seedlings are smaller in size and biomass at 10 mo than single seedlings but survive equally well under greenhouse conditions. Conflicting selection pressures have the potential to maintain some variability in seed number per acorn a single tree produces.
10.2307/2996493|Pontederia rootstocks do not require low temperature treatment to produce shoots and the lack of a required stratification period enables established Pontederia plants to have the longest possible growing season. Seeds are dormant at time of dispersal in late summer and autumn and will not germinate until they have been stratified for 6-8 weeks After stratification, seeds germinate best at constant or alternating temperatures greater than 20
10.2307/2996856|A well-known experiment published by Sagar (1959), Harper et al. (1965) and Harper (1977) showed that microsite variation had dramatic effects on the germination behavior of Plantago seeds, P. lanceolata in particular, and in part led to the formulation of the "safe site" concept for germination. We repeated this experiment as closely as possible both indoors and outdoors. In our study, microsite variation had no effect on P. lanceolata, contrary to the published results, and no effects were observed in P. major and P. aristata. The controls were never different from the experimental treatments. The previously published P. lanceolata results were not correlated with our results, showing that the trends of the results were not even the same. Our results illustrate the difficulties of attempting to repeat ecological experiments, particularly those involving seed germination in natural conditions.
10.2307/2482920|1. On the basis of all extant descriptions of Commelina; on the fact of the acceptance of the genus Commelinantia by the only two recent eminent workers to monograph the Commelinaceae on a world-wide scope; on a current re-examination and comparison of living material of both genera by myself; on the fact that the species anomala in question (and C. pringlei as well) is excluded from Commelina by the very key by which Dr. Woodson seeks to include it in that genus; and on the basis of strikingly dissimilar chromosome complements-on all of these bases, Commelinantia would appear to be a valid genus. Note. The known geographic range of C. anomala is from the flood plain of the Nueces River in Nueces County (doubtless brought down by flood waters from the Edwards Plateau) to the moist, shaded, limestone slopes of the Edwards Plateau in central Texas and similar slopes northeastward to the vicinity of Dallas County. It is abundant in the vicinity of Austin, and we have cultivated it in sandy garden soil on The University of Texas campus. I have never observed it to suffer from frostbite in this vicinity and am confident that it may be grown outside, at least as far north as the latitude of Dallas. I shall be glad to furnish both herbarium sheets and seeds to anyone interested in deciding for himself the taxonomic position of this very interesting plant.
10.2307/2483308|Individual germinating seed samples are exposed to x-rays at five, 24-hour-intervals and then returned to controlled growing conditions. Collections of nonirradiated plant material are made at the same five, 24-hour-intervals for the purpose of DNA estimation and anatomical-cytological information. Dry weights of root material are determined after a 30-day growth period. The average nuclear volume of the root meristem cells increases and reaches a maximum at 48 hours. The amount of DNA per meristem cell reaches a peak at 72 hours. The highest radioresistance is at 24 hours and the greatest radiosensitivity is at the 72-hour DNA peak or 24 hours after the maximum nuclear volume enlargement. These findings indicate that in a vegetative organ the amount of DNA per cell is more strongly correlated with radiosensitivity than is nuclear volume.
10.2307/2482566|Transverse and longitudinal sections of galls of Melanopsichium pennsylanicum Hirschh., growing on Polygonum lapathifolium, revealed the presence of spherical locular sori embedded in gall tissue. Teliospores extruded from locular sori formed tortuous smut tendrils on the outer surfaces of galls. These spores were nonpulverulent, being embedded in a gelatinous matrix. They germinated normally by promycelia with both lateral and terminal sporidia. Sporidial cultures on PDA grew best at 26-28
10.2307/2482971|1. A previously unrecognized cultivated pepper. Capsicum sinense Jacq., is reported from Central and South America. This species is most readily distinguished by the 3-5 flowers at each node, the declinate pedicels, and the circular constriction at the base of the calyx in fruit. 2. Crosses between C. sinense and both C. annuum and C. frutescens, to which it appears most closely related, generally give hybrids showing some impairment of fertility. Notes on the geographical distribution of the other cultivated peppers, C. annuum, C. frutescens, C. pendulum, and C. pubescens, are also presented.
10.2307/2484735|The major stages of development of the gynodioecious rush, Juncus roemerianus Scheele, representative of both plant forms as based on the occurrence of pistillate and perfect flowers, are traced through the basic differences in floral morphology, seed production, germination, seedling and mature plant development. In Mississippi, J. roemerianus flowers from mid-winter to mid-spring. The seeds have a light requirement for germination and are highly viable. Seedling development proceeds in a one-plane (abaxial-adaxial) fashion illustrative of the single rhizomes of the mature plant, which is often obscured by the habit of growth. The significance of the major features of this species' life history is discussed in terms of its ecology.
10.2307/2484714|A vegetation analysis of the tree component was conducted within the undisturbed, old-growth element of the Boiling Springs Natural Area, a Society of American Foresters Natural Area in the upper Coastal Plain of South Carolina. Compositionally, the tree component (stems greater than 7.6 cm dbh) is dominated by sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua), yellow-poplar (Liriodendron tulipifera), and loblolly pine (Pinus taeda). Within the old-growth element, the density-diameter distribution curve is of the rotated sigmoid form rather than the inversed J-shaped curve. Vertical structure, interaction between understory and overstory, species composition, and species life history characteristics contribute to this rotated sigmoid form.
10.2307/2997073|Barbula rufofusca is described as a new species from southeast Alaska and northern British Columbia. It differs from species resembling it in the weakly papillose leaf cells, and in the costa which lacks definite stereid bands.
10.2307/2482783|1. The hybrid fern, Asplenium ebenoides (A. platyneuron x A. rhizophyllum) occurs in nature as a sterile diploid over a wide range, and also as a fertile allopolyploid limited narrowly to Hale Co., Alabama. Asplenium ebenoides has been synthesized in culture, and has been backcrossed with A. platyneuron, but no new fertile allopolyploids have been heretofore produced under experimental conditions. 2. A new and distinctive allopolyploid form of A. ebenoides arose spontaneously in cultures produced by sowing large numbers of spores and sporangia from a sterile diploid form collected in Montgomery Co., Maryland. A total of about twenty-five gametophytes, appearing as clustered groups or as solitary individuals, was produced among thousands of spores. Fertilization among these gametophytes yielded a uniform type of sporophyte, resembling the sterile diploid progenitor. 3. The new allopolyploid differs from the wild Alabama type in a number of characters, including the blade texture, blade color, outline of leaf, breadth of leaf-segments, number of dwarfed segments, form of the segment margins, and the outline of the gametophytic wings. The new allopolyploid reproduces as readily from spores as does the wild type. 4. The rarity of allopolyploid populations of ferns in nature is briefly discussed, and a series of factors is suggested to account for it: (1) the small number of polyploid spores produced by the sterile diploid; (2) the necessity for the polyploid spores to fall in narrowly defined microhabitats; (3) competition with the gametophytes of normal species in the same habitat; and (4) a tendency for gametophytes to require cross-fertilization. 5. Because of the close resemblance of the allopolyploid to its sterile diploid progenitor and because of its morphological distinctness from the previously known allopolyploid from Alabama, the suggestion is made that varying forms of species of this evolutionary origin may be due to genetic differences between parental races in different localities.
10.2307/2484450|Hypoxis longii, originally on the endangered species list, is now known from 11 counties in 5 states: Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, Texas, and Virginia (type location). Full description of the species is given based on numerous recent collections. Its habitat is Loblolly pine (Pinus taeda)-hardwood forests with sparse understory. Since it is always associated with Loblolly pine, this overlooked species is expected to be found throughout the Coastal Plain where P. taeda is common.
10.2307/2997068|Differences between leaves of coconut trees in an early stage of cadang-cadang and those of healthy trees were confined to the yellow spots, no differences being found in the green portions of the leaves. In more advanced stages, the differences extended even to green areas adjacent to the yellow areas. Leaves from trees in medium and advanced stages of the disease were significantly thinner than those from healthy trees. The difference in thickness is due to the small size of all types of cells, there being little or no difference in their numbers. The palisade cells are not only small and compact but are irregularly-arranged rather than in tiers. Mesophyll cells are rounded rather than angular. The differences observed seem to be due to incomplete or arrested development of all types of cells in the leaf and to necrosis of some of the cells in the characteristic yellow spots. Disintegration of chloroplasts seems to be a characteristic symptom of cadang-cadang and it proceeds slowly from cells in the yellow spots to cells in the adjacent green tissue in a manner distinguishable from that which occurs in yellow spots caused by feeding punctures of various arthropods.
10.2307/2483332|In order to assess the relative importance of physical and biotic environments in plant distributions, adults and seeds of several species native to Michigan, where the work was done, were planted on all parts of a soil moisture gradient in cultivated plots, lacking natural understory vascular plant interaction. Another experiment in a clearcut transect along the same gradient furnished supplementary data. Most species survived, grew, germinated, flowered and fruited nearly uniformly from excessively- to imperfectly-drained soils, even if naturally restricted to a part of these soils or absent from them. Where differences were present, there was no demonstrable relation between species' performances and their natural distributions, either on these soils or under the more extreme conditions of an intermittently flooded bog and a clearcut upland area. Under moderate conditions, therefore, natural distributions may be restricted primarily by interactions, and physical factors may act indirectly, through influences upon interactive potential. But severe suppression of survival and growth under the more extreme conditions suggests that physical factors may be more directly limiting here. Recent transplants may differ from established plants in ability to survive these extreme conditions, however. Slightly more marked differences in general for flowering, fruiting, germination and seedling survival than for adult survival suggest that the former stages in the life cycle may be the more vulnerable, but for growth measurements, they may merely reflect greater sensitivity to statistical tests.
10.2307/2484067|In Cliftonia monophylla the anther wall consists of four layers and the tapetum is of the secretory type. Many cells of the epidermis, endothecium and middle layer contain tannin. Both normal and aposporous embryo sacs develop in the same ovule. A single archesporial initial in the micropylar part of the nucellus produces monosporic, 8-nucleate embryo sac of the Polygonum type, whereas 5 to 7 cells that differentiate in the chalazal end form aposporous embryo sacs of the Hieracium type. The aposporous embryo sacs are functionless and the embryo is produced only from the normal gametophyte.
10.2307/2995953|Two field experiments were performed to determine if reproductive allocation in 3- to 4-year-old Artemisia tridentata ssp. vaseyana (Rydb.) Beetle, mountain big sagebrush, was affected by spatial dispersion pattern and by small additions of water and/or nitrogen fertilizer In the spatial dispersion study, most measures of reproductive allocation were higher for plants growing singly compared to plants growing in clumps of four shrubs. Total achene biomass and the ratio of total reproductive biomass production/vegetative biomass production (a measure of reproductive effort) for 1984 were much higher for plants growing in a regular pattern In the water and nitrogen fertilizer study, addition of water and fertilizer decreased reproductive effort in 1983, while addition of water alone increased reproductive effort in 1984. Different expressions of reproductive effort yielded very different numerical values. Reproductive allocation increased from the first to the second year of the study
10.2307/2481842|1. The amino acids present in acid hydrolyzed casein, with the exceptions of L-hydroxyglutamic acid and L-serine but including L-tryptophan, were tested for biological activity toward Streptomyces scabies. 2. Melanin production and growth of S. scabies in a synthetic medium containing L-tyrosine were stimulated by single additions of arginine, lysine, histidine, aspartic acid and glutamic acid, (L-isomers). 3. Growth of the organism was inhibited by tyrosine, when this was the only amino acid present, but with additions of stimulatory amino acids, singly or in combinations, growth increased progressively as tyrosine was utilized. 4. In shake cultures the maximum yield of exogenous melanin (under defined conditions and assuming there was no change in molecular weight in the conversion of tyrosine to melanin) was 13.01 per cent of the tyrosine metabolized.
10.2307/2996106|Twenty-five sandstone glade sites in the Arkansas Ozarks were surveyed for vegetation and soil characteristics The soil factors were similar to those of other glade types reported in the literature with the exception that the Calico Rock glades had a wide range of soil pH. The mean soil depth was 4 2 cm; 86 4% of all soil measurements were less than 10 cm Juniperus virginiana was the most common tree species, and the mean basal area for all trees was only 2 8 m
10.2307/2996100|Scanning electron microscopy was used to examine foliar surfaces of Fagus grandifolia and the species of Castanea native in eastern North America Six trichome types are recognized in this survey: simple, bulbous, solitary, acicular, fasciculate, and stellate Fagus has the first four of these and exhibits seasonal as well as ecotypic and geographic variation in the density of the vestiture, but lacks a consistent qualitative difference correlated with the proposed races or infraspecific taxa. Castanea has all six trichome types and there are some differences in trichome complements and density that are taxonomically useful There are two cuticular types represented plus the presence of epicuticular wax in some taxa
10.2307/2996340|Two decades of vegetation change, under a fire-protected, post-hurricane regime in southeastern Connecticut, reveal a strong tendency to return to pre-disturbance conditions. Various oaks (Quercus spp.) remained dominant, and black birch (Betula lenta) declined rapidly, as forest age structure matured. Following the 1938 hurricane, the reestablishment of hemlock (Tsuga canadensis), chiefly on former hemlock-oak sites, was rapid. Factor analysis suggested three major statistical quantities; an oak forest factor, a storm disturbance factor, and a post-agricultural factor, which together accounted for 37% of the quadrat-to-quadrat variance samples. Transition probability analysis was useful as a format for portraying historical change, although it was found to lack predictive value in the study area. Expectations of future change include the continued dominance of oak and an increase of hemlock where it was present prior to the hurricane. Given fire protection, expansion of hemlock into oak hardwood sites is expected, but will be slow and will occur principally around rock outcrops and windthrow gaps where site conditions are especially favorable for its establishment.
10.2307/2482049|1. Clappertonia is an African genus of Tiliaceae with two closely related species differing greatly in habit of growth and ecological requirements. 2 C. ficifolia was found at five widely separated stations to have a 2n-number of 36 chromosomes : C. minor, at two stations to have the same number. Chromosomes are small. Determinations were from leaf smears. 3. C. ficifolia holds some promise as a commercial source of a jute-like fiber. The plant grows rapidly either from seed or from cuttings. It prefers a wet habitat.
10.2307/2996839|Bruniaceae have peculiar leaf tips, composed of thin walled cells containing reddish-brown accumulations; these cells often break open at maturity. Files of cells (which also contain the deposits) are produced by a meristem subadjacent to the tip cells; no hydathode occurs at the leaf tip, and no lateral teeth are present on leaves. All of these features occur in Geissoloma, and nearly all in Myrothamnus, in which the meristem is lacking. These similarities are thus considered indicative of relationship among these families. SEM studies of epicuticular waxes and longitudinally-oriented cuticular relief on leaves of the three families reveal similarities. The presence of ultrastructual grooving on trichomes, the uniseriate nonglandular nature of the trichomes, and the nonlignified nature of walls in the hairs are features by which Geissolomataceae resemble Bruniaceae. Multiple epidermis is newly reported for Geissoloma. The possible significance of intracellular pectates in the epidermal cells and the multiple epidermis of Geissoloma is discussed.
10.2307/2997170|Black maple [Acer saccharum Marsh. subsp. nigrum (Michx. f.) Desm.] anthers overwinter in the microsporocyte stage. The microsporocytes are surrounded by a tapetal layer, two middle layers, an endothecium, and an epidermis. In the spring, tapetal cells become binucleate or multinucleate as microsporogenesis proceeds basipetally through the entire inflorescence and its individual branches. Development is nearly synchronous within all locules of individual anthers. As microsporogenesis progresses, middle layers become crushed and the glandular (secretory) tapetum degenerates. Tetrahedral tetrads are formed by simultaneous cytokinesis, followed by dissolution of callose and release of microspores. After microspore mitosis, pollen is shed at the two-celled stage. In functionally pistillate flowers, pollen maturity is delayed until after anthesis, yet filament elongation and anther dehiscence do not occur. Endothecial wall thickenings are present in the anthers of pistillate flowers and show no differences that appear to contribute to the lack of anther dehiscence. In both staminate and pistillate flowers, mature endothecial cells are radially elongate with fibrous thickenings forming a cage of more-or-less parallel bands along each cell's anticlinal walls. On the inner periclinal cell face, the bands anastomose into a central baseplate; on the outer periclinal face, bands are continuous, though often attenuated. This paper presents the first photographically documented observations of microsporogenesis and the first description of endothecial wall thickenings for the Aceraceae. Observations presented confirm and supplement previous scattered observations of anther and pollen development in Acer
10.2307/2482821|1. The stimulating potencies of Bengal gram steep liquor, corn steep liquor and rice steep liquor have been studied in the production of penicillin by P. chrysogenum Q 176 (Wis). and P. notatum NRRL 1249-B-21 using Moyer and Coghill's lactose medium with and without phenyl acetic acid. 2. It has been found that Bengal gram steep liquor is superior to corn and rice steep liquors.
10.2307/2995941|Synandra hispidula (Michx.) Britt., an herbaceous species of mesic deciduous forests, has been reported to be an annual, winter annual, biennial and perennial. Our observations on its ecological life cycle in Kentucky show that it is a strict biennial. Seeds germinate from February to April, and all surviving plants flower and produce seeds the second spring, after which the entire plant dies.
10.2307/2482395|1. Fiber lengths are greater in outer than in inner growth rings at the same level of the trunk. 2. Greater fiber lengths in outer rings were noted at the higher level sampled. 3. Length of fibers shows no relationship to lean of tree trunk in the eastern cottonwood.
10.2307/2996833|Phytolacca americana L. is a common native weed of the eastern United States, ranging from Quebec and Ontario south to northeastern Mexico. Previous authors have disagreed as to the status of a second taxon, P. rigida Small, which is distinguished from P. americana by erect, rather than drooping racemes and pedicels that are shorter than the berries. In addition, P. rigida is restricted to Florida and the Atlantic and Gulf coasts. Artificial cross-pollinations between plants of the two taxa yielded viable seeds, but interpretation of this result is equivocal because of the strongly autogamous nature of the plants. Flavonoid profiles of the two taxa were found to be indistinguishable, consisting of six glycosides of the flavonols quercetin and kaempferol. No taxonomically useful differences were detected in salinity tolerance or seed germination. The region between the Upper Coastal Plain and Quaternary deposits of the Lower Coastal Plain appears to form an ecological barrier between the two taxa. Analyses of 14 morphological characters in 36 populations from the Coastal Plain of the southeastern United States showed that P. rigida is distinct from P. americana in several characters. It is not, however, sufficiently distinct to deserve recognition as a separate species. Therefore, a new combination is proposed: Phytolacca americana var. rigida.
10.2307/2996257|Flowering frequency and vegetative reproduction in E. propullans, a narrow endemic of southeastern Minnesota, were compared with that of nearby populations of E. albidum, a widespread species of the eastern deciduous forest. The average proportion of flowering plants in colonies of E. propullans was 28.3% (range 7.8-50 9%), while in colonies of E. albidum it was 3.8% (range 1.1-9 9%). Flowering frequency is correlated with runner position, since all runners are produced on flowering plants in E. propullans, and most are on non-flowering plants in E. albidum. Populations of E. propullans produce about 80% as many bulbs each growing season as do those of E. albidum, and only about 20% as many runners. Vegetative spreading in E. propullans is accomplished by a combination of an angling growth of the new flowering stem through the soil before emergence, followed by the production of a stem offshoot runner which produces a new bulb. Bulb-to-bulb distances gained in this way exceed those of E. albidum, in which all runners arise from bulbs. However, E. albidum is more aggressive vegetatively due to its greater number of runners. Factors to express amount of vegetative reproduction and degree of aggressiveness are calculated. Apparent advantages and disadvantages of the two types of vegetative reproduction are discussed, with possible implications regarding the origin of the type found in E. propullans.
10.2307/2996515|The names of two well-known species of Aster must give way to earlier, validly published names. Aster oolentangiensis Riddell (April, 1835) has priority over A. azureus Lindley in Hooker (November, 1835), and A. retroflexus Lindley in DeCandolle (1836) takes the place of A. curtisii Torrey & Gray (1841).
10.2307/2484363|A zoospore of Phytophthora palmivora with 3 tinsel flagella and 3 whiplash flagella has been observed in the electron microscope. Lateral hairs characteristic of each type of flagella were also observed. It is assumed that the multiflagellated zoospore described is trinucleate.
10.2307/2484593|Root fragments of Mirabilis multiflora occur in abundance in a rock shelter in southern New Mexico occupied by a hunter-gatherer people who practiced limited agriculture from about 1700 BC to 100 AD. The raphide-filled root fragments were identified by comparison with large-rooted perennials including the following Nyctaginaceae with macroscopically similar tissue: Abronia elliptica, A. fragrans, Mirabilis multiflora, M. linearis, and M longiflora. Only M. multiflora possessed the properly colored and textured root surface to match the prehistoric material. Modern Pueblo Indians employ the ground root for food, to suppress appetite, and to counteract swelling; modern medical research demonstrates anti-tumor activity in the root extract.
10.2307/2482121|1. Five enzymes from pea homogenates were studied in respect to their distribution between the cotyledons and the root-shoot axis and to their development during germination up to 6 day-old seedlings. 2. When the activity is expressed in terms of wet weight, ascorbic oxidase occurred predominantly in the root-shoot axis, while amylase was equally distributed between the two regions, and cytochrome oxidase, succinoxidase, and phosphorylase were primarily found in the cotyledons. When compared in terms of dry weight or protein, ascorbic oxidase, cytochrome oxidase, and amylase activities were now more concentrated in the root-shoot axis, and phosphorylase and succinoxidase were more concentrated in the cotyledons. 3. All of the above enzymes except ascorbic oxidase were found in ungerminated seeds, and all increased in activity upon germination.
10.2307/2483007|Two sphagnous wet lands were selected for a comparative floristic study, Uttertown Bog located in northern New Jersey, and Bennett Bog Sanctuary located in southern New Jersey. Both of these areas were undrained depressions with acid soil and sphagnum moss. Uttertown Bog, located in a glaciated area in the Ridge and Valley Province, had a floating mat of vegetation, nearly constant water level, continuous sphagnum distribution, and a deep peat deposit. Bennett "Bog," located on the sands of the Coastal Plain in an unglaciated region, lacked a floating mat of vegetation, displayed a seasonal variation in the water level, possessed a scattered sphagnum distribution and a shallow peat deposit. One hundred and forty nine species of vascular plants were identified from Bennett "Bog" and forty three species from Uttertown Bog. Only nine species were found growing in both of the "bogs." Thirty nine and one half percent of the Uttertown sphagnous wet land species were woody and 60.5% were herbs. The woody plants were growing from the waters edge to the forest border. Nineteen and one half percent of the Bennett sphagnous wet land species were woody and 80.5% were herbs. In contrast to Uttertown the woody species were confined to outer edges or to restricted areas within the "bog." Evidence is presented to show that 30 of the 149 Bennett species had southern geographical affinity, and Uttertown Bog had twelve of 43 species with northern geographical affinity, two reaching their southern limit in New Jersey. In addition a portion of the Bennett flora was also shown to have an affinity with the flora of the New Jersey Pine Barrens. The data presented in this paper indicate that there are species with a southern floral affinity extending their northern limits in sphagnous wet lands in the southern part of New Jersey and species with a northern floral affinity extending their southern limits in a sphagnous wet land located in northern New Jersey. Authors have stated that northern plants south of their continuous range and near the southern limit of their distribution may be restricted to northern bogs. Our data substantiated this. In addition, the evidence presented confirms the views of Long and Stone that southern species north of their continuous range and near the northern limit of their distribution can be restricted to sphagnous wet lands.
10.2307/2482106|1. Aeginetia indica is a small purplish parasite of the family Orobanchaceae, occurring on the roots of grasses and many other plants. There is an erect, slender scape bearing a single flower which hangs downwards. 2. There are four stamens which are epipetalous and didynamous. The anthers are bilocular, but at maturity the two loculi become confluent. The archesporium is hypodermal and occurs in the form of two crescent-shaped masses. 3. The anther tapetum is glandular and its cells become bi- or even tri-nucleate. The endothecium, and sometimes even the epidermis and outer middle layer show spiral thickenings. 4. Quadripartition of the microspore mother cell takes place by furrowing. Tetrahedral, isobilateral, and decussate types of tetrads occur. 5. The pollen grain is two-celled. The exine is smooth and shows three furrows. 6. The ovules are extremely small, tenuinucellate, anatropous and unitegmic. The nucellar epidermis degenerates and an inconspicuous integumentary tapetum is formed from the innermost layer of the integument. 7. The hypodermal archesporial cell functions directly as the megaspore mother cell without cutting off a parietal cell. The megaspores show a linear or T-shaped arrangement. 8. The embryo sac is of the Polygonum type. The synergids disappear soon after fertilization. 9. The endosperm is cellular. The first wall is transverse resulting in a primary micropylar and a primary chalazal chamber. The latter forms a weak and uninucleate haustorium which is eventually crushed by the enlarged integumentary cells. The micropylar chamber divides longitudinally and then transversely, so as to cut off a two-celled micropylar haustorium. This is very aggressive and sends intercellular hypha-like branches into the integument. The middle tier by further divisions gives rise to a narrow isthmus region and the endosperm proper. The endosperm cells store starch and oil. 10. There is a four-celled proembryo. The three terminal cells give rise to a globose embryo, which is not differentiated into the radicle, plumule and the cotyledons. The suspensor cell disintegrates and is unrecognisable in later stages. 11. The seeds are produced in abundance, but many of them are empty and devoid of either embryo or endosperm. They are yellowish, extremely small and rather powdery in appearance. The cells of the testa are reticulately thickened. The pericarp flakes off to liberate the seeds.
10.2307/2560355|Size association, population structure, density-diameter curve, and life history studies were used to evaluate possible successional trends in a Thuja occidentalis dominated association. It is predicted, in contrast to previous hypotheses, that T. occidentalis has a stable population structure and will continue to dominate, that Fraxinus nigra and Acer rubrum will increase in importance but remain subdominants, and that Liriodendron tulipifera will remain a minor component with temporary dominance in areas of canopy openings.
10.2307/2484263|Zizania texana is restricted to 2.4 km of the upper San Marcos River in southcentral Texas. Physical and chemical characteristics of the San Marcos River are unusual, being characterized by alkaline or neutral pH and water temperature varying only ca 5 C annually. Taxonomic comparison of Z. texana with Z. aquatica and Z. palustris showed several important morphological differences; these were maintained in cultivation, although Z. texana lost its streaming, submersed habit. Zizania texana is geographically isolated from all other Zizania taxa by at least 640 km. Viable seed obtained in cultivation produced 500 new clones. Human disturbances have affected Z. texana adversely. Survival depends on continued water purity and abundant flow from Spring Lake, source of the river. We are attempting to preserve the habitat and to transplant cultivated clones to other localities in central Texas.
10.2307/2482376|"Cedar glades" cover about 5 per cent of the Central Basin of Middle Tennessee at an average elevation of 600 feet. They occupy the flat exposures of Lebanon limestone in an otherwise fertile region. Soil is thin and rocky and moisture conditions are extreme. The soil is saturated much of the time from December to May, the period of greatest precipitation, and becomes increasingly drier through the summer and fall. Open glades and woods dominated by red cedar (Juniperus virginiana) are the most typical communities of the region. Both open glades and glade woods are heterogeneous communities, made up of a few "constants" and a large number of sporadic species, most of which are herbs. There is a close relationship between physiography and vegetation as evidenced by the restriction of glade vegetation to Lebanon limestone in the Central Basin and by the presence of similar glades on Ordovician limestone in Virginia and Missouri. This is probably a matter of available moisture controlled in part by stratigraphy. Ability to survive the spring saturation and fall drought is a factor in determining restriction of species to glade habitats. The plants which are able to survive these conditions meet less competition from mesic species which are unable to invade glade areas. Among species characteristic of glades are endemics, disjuncts and eastern species of western genera.
10.2307/2996748|We investigated the rates and mechanisms of canopy gap closure and changes in thicket age, stem density, crown size, and canopy closure with height in thickets of the clonal shrub, Cornus racemosa Linnaeus. We conducted the study in a well drained upland old field with nutrient-poor soil and a poorly drained lowland old field with more nutrient-rich soil in New York's Hudson Valley. As thickets grow taller, canopy closure tends to decrease because lateral growth of canopy stem crowns does not completely offset decreases in canopy stem density. When stems die, they generally die standing and singly, forming gaps in the canopy. Single stem gaps formed by standing-dead stems were closed predominantly by lateral growth of the branches in the crowns of stems surrounding the gaps. Mean closure rates of experimentally created gaps were greater on average in the wetter and more nutrient-rich lowland site (15.0 cm/yr) than in the upland site (5.0 cm/yr). Gaps closed by 85%/yr at the lowland site and 21%/yr at the upland site. The fates of understory stems differed between sites, more understory stems reached the canopy in upland thickets. Stem lean contributed to both the opening and closing of individual gaps at both sites. On average, lean opened gaps in upland thickets and had no effect on lowland gap closure rates. Stem lean after gap creation increased with canopy stem density. Larger gaps should take longer to close, allowing more opportunity for understory stems to contribute to gap closure.
10.2307/2996639|The spatial pattern of live patches of Bashania fangiana after most stands flowered in 1983 in Wolong Natural Reserve, China were analyzed. Live patches were intensely clumped at small spatial scales and remained clumped up to scales of 14.4 km
10.2307/2483597|Scleropodium julaceum sp. nov. is described and illustrated. Hypnum apocladum Mitt. is referred to the synonymy of Scleropodium caespitans var. sublaeve Ren. & Card., and the new combination Scleropodium touretii var. colpophyllum (Sull.) Lawt. is made. A key for the identification of the North American species of Scleropodium is included.
10.2307/2483328|The growth of plants in solution or sand culture is often accompanied by an increase in solution acidity and this is especially marked when ammonium is the form of nitrogen supplied by the nutrient solution. In studies that compare the effect of ammonium and nitrate on plant processes, a change in solution pH is an undesired variable. An apparatus is described in which nutrient solution passes over roots in a continuous flow, thus providing a constant pH in the presence of ammonium or nitrate salts. Adequate root aeration is maintained without the necessity of bubbling air through the culture solution. Under conditions of constant pH (6.3) wheat roots grew equally well with ammonium or nitrate but sunflower roots grew better with nitrate.
10.2307/2484508|Protein-profiles and zymograms provide additional criteria to characterize fungal taxa. The successful application of electrophoretic techniques to taxonomic problems in fungi, however, requires relatively large collections for each taxon, an evaluation of different cultural and extraction procedures, a survey of available enzyme systems, and an appreciation of the limitations of different electrophoretic methods. These factors have been considered in the study of species of Aspergillus and Ustilago and their significance is discussed. The relatively low incidence of enzyme polymorphism and the status of cryptic or sibling species have genetic and taxonomic significance.
10.2307/2483772|Net primary production of forest herbs (shoots only) was studied in a mixed hardwood forest in the spring of 1967 and 1968. Peak standing crop was reached prior to canopy closure as was leaf area index. Chlorophyll content reached a peak one month after canopy closure and was higher per unit fresh weight of leaf material than before closure This indicates that summer herbs have a higher chlorophyll content than spring herbs. Leaf area index was inversely proportional to dry matter production, being higher in the communities with lower species diversity. Dry matter production (68gm
10.2307/2484925|In order to determine possible mechanisms of habitat differentiation, germination of stratified seeds of six colonizing species which occur together in first-year oldfields, was tested on a soil moisture gradient. Seeds of Abutilon theophrasti, Amaranthus retroflexus, Ambrosia artemisiifolia, Chenopodium album, Polygonum pensylvanicum, and Setaria faberii were sown on a controlled soil moisture gradient ranging from flooded conditions down to 4.7% moisture content per soil dry weight. Much of the gradient was unsuitable for germination of any species. The species showed no differentiation in response along the gradient. Proportional similarity was high. -niche breadths were also high, but not as high as those of established plants of these species, which exploit a wider range of the gradient. Although there is no differential response of germination to soil moisture, other aspects of germination behavior may contribute to coexistence.
10.2307/2484884|The response of vegetation on Sucia Island to a number of sharp environmental gradients produces an ecocline with five major plant communities. Topography, air temperature, wind, vapor pressure deficit, and soil moisture interact to affect this vegetation pattern. South-facing slopes are hot, dry, and windy, whereas north-facing slopes and valleys are cool and moist, with low wind speeds. A Pseudotsuga menziesii/Gaultheria shallon community is in the center of the ecocline on gently rolling, interior sites, Pseudotsuga menziesii-Arbutus menziesii/Vicia americana occupies protected south-facing slopes, and Festuca idahoensis grasslands are located on exposed south-facing points of the island. Thuja plicata-Pseudotsuga menziesii/Gaultheria shallon occupies north-facing slopes, and Thuja plicata-Abies grandis/Polystichum munitum occurs in central valleys. Water potentials in saplings of P. menziesii and T. plicata correspond to the obvious moisture gradient over the island, with lowest values on the more exposed, drier sites.
10.2307/2482954|1. The importance of studying structurally preserved portions of axes of compression specimens is stressed and several examples of previous work of this nature are cited. 2. Two common types of fossil preservation in pyrite are discussed. 3. A technique which facilitates the grinding and polishing of surfaces of pyritized plant fossils is described and its usefulness to the paleobotanist is emphasized.
10.2307/2484799|Mycoirhizal fungi are members of specific taxonomic groups. Most ectomycorrhizal species are of numerous geneia of Basidiomycetes, although some are clearly Ascomycetes. Endomycorrhizal fungi are usually chlamydosporic Phycomycetes in the Endogonaceae. However, orchid and ericoid fungi are Basidiomycetes or Ascomycetes. The ectendomycorihizal fungi are still unidentifiable. In nature, mycorrhizal fungi depend on carbohydrates supplied primarily by their hosts. Soluble carbohydrates in roots is considered a major factor in formation of ectomycorrhizae and sporophore development. Amino and other organic acids, the M-factor, and possibly other root secretions are metabolized by the fungi. Certain ectendomycorrhizal fungi are readily cultured; their nutritional requirements are probably similar to ectomycorrhizal fungi. Endomycorrhizal fungi are apparently obligate parasites. However, in balanced systems of reciprocal exchanges of metabolites they are not considered to be pathogenic toward their hosts.
10.2307/2482287|1. The total amount and rate of growth, and survival of root apices from three lines of tomato were compared in treatments which involved subculturing the main apex at the end of one, two, three, four, and seven days. 2. Although there was considerable variation among the three lines, a greater total amount of growth was recorded for apices of all lines when subcultured at the end of one day. 3. In general, the rate of growth at the beginning of the treatment was higher for those roots excised after longer passages. During the later period of treatment, the growth rate of roots excised after longer passages declined rapidly and the roots failed to survive beyond at most a period of 21 days (or less). The rate of growth of roots excised after passages longer than one day, in medium which was changed daily, declined less than the rate of those in medium changed only at the time of transfer. The survival was not increased by changing the medium daily. 4. All of the roots of one line given a one-day passage treatment survived for 60 days without diminution in growth rate and thus it is presumed that they could have been subcultured indefinitely. In another line, subcultures were made for 36 days without diminution in growth rate, but all of the apices died between the 33rd and 36th day. In the other line survival was increased very little, if any, by the use of the one-day passage treatment. 5. Whatever are the factors controlling the growth potential of the root apex, it is clear that there are internal influences from the basipetal or mature regions of the root. These influences affect cell division and enlargement. They appear to be related to the presence or absence of lateral roots.
10.2307/2482152|1. All rock specimens from Val David were found to be a gabbro consisting almost entirely of anorthite, essentially CaAl
10.2307/2481793|1. Morphological differences exist in the normal chromosome complement of T. erectum L. growing in Tennessee and T. erectum L. growing in Canada. Taxonomically the plants are identical insofar as the conventionally employed morphological characters are concerned. 2. In obtaining valid comparative data as to chromosome morphology identical techniques must be employed The Feulgen and the aceto-carmine techniques give results which differ by approximately 30% in the Trillium species studied. This is shown in both the study of Y. erectum L. and T. luteum (Muhl) Harbison. There is no difference with these techniques, however, as to the position of the primary constriction; the ratio between the long arm and short arm remains the same. 3. The pattern of differential segments produced by cold treatment cannot be employed as a valid or even useful taxonomic indicator for distinguishing species, for too many differences exist in the regularly recurring pattern in the Canadian T. erectum L. and that in plants of the same species growing in Tennessee. 4. The primary constriction also behaves like a region of differential reactivity upon exposure to cold. 5 The differential segments themselves undergo less contraction than the non-affected portions of the chromosomes upon exposure to cold. 6. The morphology of the normal chromosomes set of T. erectum L differs slightly from that of T luteum (Muhl.) Harbison; however, the total length of the two complements is the same
10.2307/2484955|Twenty-two species of Xanthoparmelias are described from Arizona. Parmelia nigropsoromifera is described as new. Chemical, distributional and morphological data are provided in addition to a key for the southwestern species.
10.2307/2484926|Poa chaixii Vill. is reported from Hamilton Co., and Saratoga Co., N.Y., near old estates, and associated with other European adventives.
10.2307/2484222|The streamside forest vegetation in the Sangamon River basin of east-central Illinois was studied by direct gradient analysis. A gradient of river flood frequencies was used to combine data from three vegetational gradients and to study gradient trends in species richness, diversity, evenness, dominance, and the Gaussian curve model of species distribution. Species richness, diversity and evenness increased from minima at the streambank to maxima in mid-coenocline areas and then regressed slightly in the unflooded portion of the flood-frequency gradient. Dominance was strongest at the extremes of the gradient. Tolerance to flood and moisture conditions are suggested as the primary sorting factors controlling the distribution of species in the streamside forest. Historical disturbances, however, are also important and represent an alternative hypothesis. The Gaussian curve model was determined to statistically fit 20 of the 27 species for which there were sufficient data for analysis. Species distribution modes were distributed on the gradient apparently at random. Minor species were distributed independent of the dominants.
10.2307/2996261|Management of Residual Open Spaces (ROS) in highly urbanized areas is currently receiving increased interest in the city of Hoboken and other municipalities along the Palisades in northeastern New Jersey. The preservation and proper utilization of these ROS requires a comprehensive management plan based on both a knowledge of community compositions and relationships of the pre-urbanized (natural) communities and the effects of urbanization on such communities. Working toward this goal, we have analyzed the forest compositions and relationships of the Greenbrook Sanctuary in 1949 and 1980 and 31-year changes which have occurred. The 1949 forest communities were analyzed utilizing unpublished historical documents and data generated during the late 1940's and early 1950's whereas the 1980 forest communities were analyzed using data generated during July-August 1980.
10.2307/2484833|Horton's concept of the bifurcation ratio of stream channel networks was applied to the branching systems of sixteen north temperate woody plant species. An analysis of the bifurcation ratio by life form and shade tolerance suggests that leaf arrangement, leaf and branch evergreenness or deciduousness, and needle size are the most important determinants of the ratio. Optimal branching strategies are examined with respect to Horn's formulation of the adaptive geometry of trees. Based on a statistical analysis of shade and open grown white ash (Fraxinus americana) saplings, it is concluded that the bifurcation ratio approaches a species specific constant and thus is relatively independent of external influences.
10.2307/2482426|1. Evidence from the one example studied indicates that the low terraces that lie just above the flood level of the Raritan River can support a forest dominated by sugar maple, beech, and basswood. Their two principal but minor associates will be red oak and bitternut hickory.2. The flood plains will support forests that are much more varied in composition.3. The part of the flood plain farthest from the river, the inner flood plain, is less well drained than the part adjacent to the river. The inner flood plain forest which was investigated in this study occupies a site wheresurface erosion at flood times scours the ground resulting in an uneven surface. Sugar maple, red maple, ash and beech as a group are becoming dominant in place of the earlier established elm, box-elder, red oak, basswood, pin oak, river birch and tulip tree. This succession cannot be presumed for the inner flood plain of the river as a whole because more often deposition rather than surface erosion occurs during flooding and the conditions then are exceedingly different. No extensive relatively undisturbed stands occur on the latter type of site.4. The outer flood plain sites or broad more or less level areas of deposition next to the river have a deep, well-drained soil and support a deciduous forest of mixed composition in which no convincing trend toward the dominance of a few species is evident.
10.2307/2483931|A resurvey of the vegetation on 104 permanent sample units was conducted during the summer of 1962 in Lebanon State Forest, New Jersey. Replicate sampling was conducted to determine if the sample method used was reproducible. Comparisons of replicate sample data indicate close agreement among values derived by two independent observers for tree and shrub cover, basal area and stem numbers. Disagreement was found when comparing seedling data. Comparisons of results of the 1954 and 1962 surveys indicate a number of changes have taken place in the vegetation of the sample sites. No detectable change occurred in the canopy cover, and with one exception none in canopy space, that was statistically significant. A general increase in basal area was found, with greatest increases being found in early successional communitits and insignifiant increase or decrease noted in older Oak-Pine communities. Changes of stem size classes indicate a shift toward the larger size classes and an overall decrease in total stems. Comparisons of shrub cover values indicate a marked reduction of total shrub cover, apparently due to decreased shrub density. Indications are that a change in shrub population structure has occurred resulting in reduced relative importance of Vaccinium vacillans and increased relative importance of other major shrub species. Drought is offered as a possible explanation for the observed decrease in shrub cover and total stem number of tree species.
10.2307/2484333|Anthesis of Frasera caroliniensis Walt. consists of distinct, but slightly overlapping, staminate and pistillate phases, and this restricts the chances of a stigma receiving pollen from anthers of the same flower. However, the pattern of floral opening on each inflorescence branch and the large number of flowers on the flowering stalk insure that flowers in staminate and pistillate phases are in close proximity to each other at the same time on the same plant. Of the flowers left unbagged and thus exposed to natural pollen vectors 60.2% set fruits, and of the flowers on plants cross-pollinated solely by hand 46.7% set fruit. Transfer of pollen between flowers on the same inflorescence branch yielded 30.5% fruit set, and bagged, unmanipulated flowers had 17.9% fruit set, indicating some degree of autogamy and/or geitonogamy. The most effective pollinators were species of the hymenopteran Family Apidae: Bombus bimaculatus, B. griseocollis, B. vagans and Apis mellifera. Larvae of three orders of insects destroyed about 25% of the total seed crop.
10.2307/2996362|Allometric relationships between stem diameterand height were studied for dicotyledonous trees and arborescent palms in a tropical wet forest of Costa Rica. In a mixed population of dicotyledonous trees, stem diameter varies with the 3/2 power of height. The climax forest tree Pentaclethra macroloba (Willd.) Kuntze. appears to have a greater margin of safety against mechanical failure than the faster growing tree Pourouma aspera Trecul. This is consistent with Pourouma's shorter life span and narrower crown. As the arborescent palms Welfia georgii Wendl. ex Burret and Socratea durissima (Derst.) Wendl. grow in height, the margin of safety against mechanical failure decreases and/or the stem tissue stiffness and strength increases. Welfia shows little capacity to increase stem diameter during height growth. Socratea shows major stem diameter increase during height growth, but not enough to maintain elastic or geometric similarity. The tallest individuals of Socratea exceed McMahon's (1973) theoretical buckling limit for dicotyledonous trees. This is consistent with the observation that tall palms have stronger, stiffer stem tissue and narrower crowns than dicotyledonous trees. Differences in allometry of height and stem diameter indicate differences in stem tissue mechanical properties, the margin of safety against mechanical failure, and/or crown weight; however, we generally can not distinguish the relative importance of these three possibilities on the basis of studies of height and stem diameters alone.
10.2307/2483231|An unusual introduction of Dioscorea resembling both D. composita and D. floribunda was compared to these species with respect to morphology, chromosome behavior, crossability, and sapogenin content. The evidence suggests that the introduction is a valid hybrid of otherwise well-defined species. The facts that such hybrids have not been recognized previously and that this hybrid was found in a disturbed habitat suggest that naturally occurring hybrids are not suited to the habitat of either species and therefore do not ordinarily survive to maturity.
10.2307/2483352|Seedlings of 5 bromeliad species representing two ecological types were grown in aseptic culture using fifteen amino acids, urea, ammonium and nitrate salts alone or in certain combinations as nitrogen sources. Dry weight accumulation and total nitrogen content subsequent to culture indicate seedlings of epiphytic tank species (Aechmea bracteata [SW.] Griseb., A. recurvata [KL] L. B. Smith and Vriesea jonghii [Libon ex. K. Koch] E. Morr.) possess an ability to fully or partially replace nitrate and ammonium with more organic nitrogen sources than terrestrial species (Pitcairnia andreana Linden and Puya mirabilis [Mez] L. B. Smith) which are tank-less and incapable of impounding water. Alanine, glutamic acid and leucine inhibit growth in all five species and glutamine and urea promote an increase in dry weight over controls lacking nitrogen in all species tested The effects of other amino acids tested varied depending on the species assayed. Enhanced ability to metabolize organic nitrogen in tank bromeliads may represent an adaptation to epiphytic life.
10.2307/2996452|Vegetative characteristics of twelve Southern Appalachian riparian forests were sampled as part of alarger study which examined functional attributes of riparian zones. Riparian forests were representative of me mixed mesophytic forest, eastern hemlock forest, and transitions between these types. Early- and mid-successional stages were generally dominated by an overstory of pioneering shade-intolerant species and had an even-aged structure. The diameter distribution of these relatively young stands of mixed species was typically inverse J-shaped. Late-successional and old-growth stages were dominated by shade-tolerant or moderately tolerant overstory species and were uneven-aged. Diameter distribution in these older stands approximated a rotated sigmoid curve. Rhododendron (Rhododendron maximum L.) was the dominant understory species and controlled understory and midstory composition. Characterization of riparian forests in different stages of succession will help understanding of vegetative processes and forms the basis of subsequent ecological studies of riparian functional dynamics.
10.2307/2996087|Lists of vascular plants were compiled for 22 limestone glades innorthern Alabama, including 16 in the Moulton Valley. A total of 233 native and 36 normative taxa were identified in the limestone glades. Families with the highest number of species were Asteraceae (34), Poaceae (29), and Fabaceae (20); genera with the highest number of species were Aster (5) and Euphorbia (5). Sixty-six of the taxa (63 native, 3 nonnative) occurred in 9 or more limestone glades (presence class 3, 4, or 5). Species present in 18 or more limestone glades (presence class 5) were Agave virginica, Arenaria patula, Diodia teres, Erigeron strigosus, Hypericum sphaerocarpum, Isanthus bractiatus, Juniperus virginiana, Opuntia humifusa, Ruellia humilis, and Sporobolus vaginiflorus. Woody plants with the highest presence values were Juniperus virginiana, Rhus aromatica, and Ulmus alata. Each of the 16 limestone glade endemics known to be extant in northern Alabama occurred in one or more of the 22 glades. Endemics with the highest presence values were Dalea gattingeri (68.2%), Leavenworthia alabamica (59.1%), and Oxalis priceae ssp. priceae (54.5%). Greater than 90% of the 36 nonnative taxa were in presence classes 1 and 2, and none was in presence classes 4 or 5. Seventy-six and six-tenths percent of the 269 taxa are hemicryptophytes or therophytes, and 89.2% of them have the C
10.2307/2482976|The effect of three plant growth substances, IAA, NAA, and TIBA at 500, 250 and 100ppm upon the growth and reproduction of an early variety of rice has been studied. The treatments consisted of seed soaking only in one series and in the other a combined treatment of seed soaking plus weekly foliar spray. The study has led to the following salient conclusions. 1. IAA had no effect on flowering. It however produced a depressing effect on vegetative characters in the initial stages followed by a subsequent recovery and brought about a higher grain yield consequent upon an increase in number and length of panicles and number of grains formed per panicle. 2. NAA brought about a conspicuous delay in ear emergence and an inhibition of vegetative characters in the early stages but was without any effect on grain yield though the number of spikelets and grains were favourably influenced by 500ppm. 3. TIBA produced no significant effect on flowering but had a marked promoting effect on vegetative characters in all their aspects. It had no effect on grain yield or components of yield excepting bringing about a marked decrease in the grain plumpness at the two concentrations of 500 and 250ppm. Our thanks are due to the Utkal University, for the award of the Maharajkumari Sudhansumukhi Gajapati Fellowship to one of us (G.S.), to Professor B. Samantarai, for providing facilities for carrying on this investigation, to Sri M. P Jha for help in statistical analysis and to Prof. K. V. Thimann for helpful criticism.
10.2307/2484224|Three zones of upland, broadleaved forest are mapped for Florida: the Tropical Forest (TRF) at the tip of the Florida peninsula, the Temperate Broadleaved Evergreen Forest (TBEF) in central Florida, and the Southern Mixed Hardwood Forest (SMHF) in northwestern Florida. The TRF is dominated by tropical arboreal taxa, the TBEF by evergreen temperate taxa (mainly Quercus virginiana and Sabal palmetto), and the SMHF by deciduous temperate taxa. Because of the paucity of stands of temperate broadleaved evergreen trees and their small area, few studies have been published. This paper presents new, quantitative data on stands of broadleaved evergreen forests in central Florida. Three subdivisions of the TBEF are recognized on the basis of floristic and vegetational characteristics. A broad transition occurs between the TBEF and the SMHF and between the TBEF and the TRF. There are climatic distinctions among the three forest zones in Florida: the TRF exists under Hot to Very Warm, Subtemperate, and Subhumid C to Humid B conditions; the TBEF under Very Warm to Warm, Subtemperate to Temperate, and Subhumid B to Humid C conditions; and the SMHF under Warm, Temperate, and Humid B conditions. Measures of cold temperatures, especially the average minimum temperature of the coldest month (CM
10.2307/2482324|In a survey of the soil fungi of Maryland two new polycentric chytrids were collected and isolated on cellulosic substrata. The first of these species is characterized primarily by an unusually large coarse rhizomycelium which lacks pseudo-septa or trabeculae, and by operculate sporangia. Accordingly, it belongs in the genus Nowakowskiella and is described as a new species, N. crassa. The second species belongs in Cladochytrium and is distinguished by a very delicate rhizomycelium, bi- to multiseptate spindle organs, inoperculate sporangia and large zoospores which contain a brilliant, goldenorange or red refractive body. It is very similar to C. tenue except for its pigmentation and larger zoospores, and because of these characteristic differences it is diagnosed as a new species and named C. aureum. In addition to these species several other saprophytic polycentric chytrids were isolated from soil and water in various parts of Maryland. These include: Cladochytrium tenue, C. replicatum, C. hyalinum, Nowakowskiella elegans, N. profusa, N. macrospora, N. hemisphaerospora, N. granulata, Septochytrium variabile, Catenomyces persicinus, Myceliochytrium fulgens, and Polychytrium aggregatum. Resting spores were discovered for the first time in Polychytrium.
10.2307/2484205|The synonymy of this taxon, its geographical range, habitats, and dates of introduction into the U.S. are reviewed. In addition, morphological studies were made of New Jersey populations. It is concluded that subspecific categories should not be designated.
10.2307/2482937|Cyperacites ? filiferus (Cockerell) comb. nov. Cyperus filiferus (Cockerell) Brown, 1959. Jour. Paleontol., v. 33, no. 1, p. 120-124, pl. 28, fig. 3. Eopuntia douglassii Chaney, 1944. Am. Jour. Bot., v. 31, no. 8, p. 507-528, pls. 1-5.
10.2307/2483900|The survival in culture of excised embryos of barley 200-400  in length was markedly improved by increases in the concentrations of potassium salts in a synthetic medium. Filter-sterilization of certain organic components, including glutamine, together with the addition of ammonium malate, produced increased growth in size of cultured embryos. Reduction of sucrose concentration, to approximately 0.2M, eliminated initial "osmotic shock" in embryos but produced "precocious germination" in cultures kept in darkness. Light of 50-100 FC tended to prevent "precocious germination" on media containing lower sucrose levels.
10.2307/2484303|A study of the phenology, breeding system, and insect pollinators of Diervilla lonicera demonstrated the flowers to be protogynous, self-incompatible, non-apomictic, and adapted for pollination by bumble bees and hawkmoths. The style and filaments increased in length during authesis. The stigmas were very receptive for up to 48 hr after the start of anthesis. A color change in the corolla was linked with a decrease in flower visitation by bumble bees (Bombus vagans and B. terricola). Adults and larvae of the hawkmoth, Hemaris diffinis are associated with the plant in four widely separated localities. The flowers open late in the day, but no nocturnal pollinators were observed. Nocturnal hawkmoth pollination may occur in the southern part of the plant's range.
10.2307/2996403|Tree species composition from 53 sites in Lassen Volcanic National Park and 95 sites in Yosemite National Park, representative of the entire elevational range of forested environments in each park, were used to address two related research questions. 1.) DO patterns of overstory composition respond to similar underlying environmental gradients in each region? 2.) Are comparable forest cover types evident from each region? Canonical correspondence analysis of these data indicated that elevation was the principal environmental gradient in both regions. Substrate variables were important secondary gradients, although different variables were significant in each locale (phosphorus and soil acidity in Lassen; sand content and magnesium in Yosemite). Topographic effects were weakly expressed in the overstory compositional pattern of each region. The importance of different substrate gradients in each region is probably a reflection of the dramatically contrasting geologic terrain (volcanic in Lassen vs. granitic in Yosemite). Two-way indicator species analysis and detrended correspondence analysis were used to classify and arrange forest cover types from a composite data set comprising all 148 sites. Nine of the ten resulting groups exhibited distinct geographic affinities for one locale over the other, suggesting that compositional sorting was not parallel between regions. The composite detrended correspondence analysis suggested that primarily elevation and, secondarily, topography were important in structuring the ecological distribution of forest cover types. Substrate effects were muted in the combined data set
10.2307/2996409|In a population of Panax quinquefolium in southeastern New York, reproductive individuals produce bisexual flowers with either a two-styled ovary containing two ovules or a one-styled ovary containing a single ovule The number of flowers produced, the ratio of two- to one-styled flowers, and the percentage of ovules maturing into seeds all increase with plant size Flowers are capable of autogamy Xenogamy is effected by syrphid flies and halictid bees Fecundity appears to be regulated by the availability of resources
10.2307/2483403|Glass and wood slides suspended near the surface and bottom in three stations in Great South Bay were analyzed for algal germlings at 14-day intervals during the summer of 1962 and the data are plotted in graphs. Three periodicity patterns were found including those setting throughout the summer (Champia parvula), those terminating set during midsummer (Ceramium diaphanum, Chaetomorpha melagonium, Enteromorpha spp., Polysiphonia denudata, and Ulva lactuca), and those beginning set during midsummer (Gracilaria foliifera, Polysiphonia subtilissima, and also Ceramium rubrum and Eetoearpus silieulosus).
10.2307/2483872|Cytological evidence from Haplopappus gracilis (n = 2) and the complex heterozygote, Rhoeo discolor (n = 6), supports previous hypotheses and considerably older cytological evidence that before premeiotic interphase the homologous chromosomes pair in the contracted condition in plants, animals, and fungi. It is assumed that homologues once-paired remain paired from premeiotic division to meiotic prophase. Such premeiotic pairing is considered to be different from meiotic synapsis. In some plants, premeiotic pairing begins during early bud formation; gradually and cumulatively the paired condition increases to a high percentage by the last premeiotic division in somatic tissues and the sporogenous cells: Such divisions have characteristics of both mitosis and meiosis.
10.2307/2483493|Eight species tested showed a high degree of self-sterility, including P. fauriei which was reported earlier to be self-fertile. Many interspecific crosses were fertile, but of the 31 crosses which were not, more than half involved either P. fauriei or P. heterophylla. Fruits of interspecific hybrids showed that persistent calyx was dominant over deciduous, russet skin was dominant over smooth, and stoneless flesh was dominant over stony. Carpel number was intermediate between the two parent species.
10.2307/2484767|Twenty-four of the 31 currently recognized taxa of Dahlia were surveyed for flavonoids. Nearly all of the 64 compounds isolated were identified. All of the taxa examined possess characteristic flavonoid profiles. At the subgeneric level two sections, Dahlia and Pseudodendron, are characterized by the production of flavonols. The third section, Entemophyllon, lacks flavonols but instead produces a unique series of 6-methoxy flavones. This chemical dichotomy suggests that two major lines of evolution exist within Dahlia, a dichotomy also supported by morphological and cytotaxonomic data. This work on the wild taxa is compared with known chemical information for cultivated Dahlia.
10.2307/2482658|1. The meiotic behaviour of the F~
10.2307/2996945|The effects of shading and fertilization on the ecophysiology of the spring ephemeral Claytonia virginica L. (Portulacaceae) were examined in the field. A two-way factorial design with main factors of light treatment (ambient control irradiance vs. 90% attenuation) and nutrient treatment (unfertilized control vs. 192 kg ha
10.2307/2996691|During a 4-year study in northwestern Costa Rica, the density, phenology, and growth rate of 29 species of dry forest trees important in the diets of primates were documented in three habitat types: pristine semi-evergreen forest, old successional semi-deciduous forest, and young successional semi-deciduous forest. The overall density of adult trees for the species sampled was the lowest in the young successional forest (80 trees/ha) followed by the pristine semi-evergreen forest (140.3 trees/ha) and the older successional forest (154.8 trees/ha). However, the pristine semi-evergreen forest had a fairly constant level of food abundance, while both types of successional forest had more seasonally variable production. The average growth rate of trees in the semi-evergreen forest was slower than those documented in either of the successional forests.
10.2307/2484803|The common rhizomatous corymbose Spiraea L. (Rosaceae) of Alaska, northwest Canada and northeastern Siberia is called Spiraea betulifolia var. aemiliana (Schneid.) Koidz. in Japanese literature and S. beauverdiana Schneid. in Russian and American literature. Both names are inapplicable, being synonymous epithets for a variety of S. betulifolia Pall. of northern Japan. The correct name of this species is Spiraea steveni (Schneid.) Rydb.
10.2307/2996879|Understory structure and composition for the maritime oak and oak-pine forests on Cumberland Island National Seashore varies from dense palmetto thickets to open understories with few shrubs. The purpose of this project was to investigate the possibility that understory composition was primarily an artifact of past agricultural activity, rather than a product of anthropogenic burning or of soil moisture gradients. Historic maps were utilized to select areas of forest that had: 1) no history as agricultural fields, 2) use as cotton fields during the plantation era of the late eighteenth and the first half of the nineteenth century, 3) use for grazing during the era of private estates from 1881 to 1916, and 4) combinations of 2 and 3. The canopy and understory of 27 sample fields or non-agricultural areas were sampled by at least four randomly selected 50 m line-intercept transects. Sites with no known history of agriculture had dense understories of saw palmetto, Serenoa repens, had relatively high dominance indices for red bay, Persea borbonia, had few vines and almost no grass and forb cover. Fields with a history of grazing during the late nineteenth century had very open understories with greater dominance of grasses and forbs and widely scattered rings of saw palmetto. Sparkleberry, Vaccinium arboreum, and pines, particularly loblolly, Pinus taeda, were also characteristic of these sites. Fields utilized for cultivation during the plantation era, but not shown as fields on the late nineteenth century map had intermediate densities of palmetto, including some sabal palm, Sabal palmetto, and high covers of grasses, forbs and vines. The non-agricultural sites had significantly greater depths of soil litter and duff, but there were no significant differences in litter or duff depth among the agricultural field types. The results imply that the open understories in the maritime oak forest have not historically been maintained by either anthropogenic or natural fire, but are artifacts of cultivation and human land management extending back to aboriginal settlement of the island.
10.2307/2484644|The European wild boar (Sus scrofa), an exotic species, is severely damaging the vernal flora of hardwood forests in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park. Since the hogs entered the Park during the 1940's, their range has continually expanded and now includes about half the total area of the Park. Quadrat sampling of both disturbed and undisturbed sites in Gray Beech Forest indicates that hog rooting can reduce the cover of the herbaceous understory to less than 5% of its expected value. Over 50 non-woody species are known to be eaten, uprooted or trampled by hogs. The damaged wild flowers include such species as Claytonia virginica, Dicentra cucullaria, Lilium superbum, Phacelia flmbriata, Stellaria pubera and Trillium erectum. Disturbed species exhibit changes in population structure including a reduction in the percentage of mature and flowering individuals and reduction in clump size. Changes in species composition in disturbed plots favor plants with deep or poisonous roots. Local extinctions of the most sensitive species may be expected as rooting continues.
10.2307/2996977|We sampled the litter accumulated in five seral sites (aged 5, 15, 23, 29, and 47 yr) and in an oldgrowth forest in early spring and fall. We collected and weighed all the litter in twelve 0.24 m
10.2307/2483836|The vegetation of Boiling Springs Natural Area was surveyed on 10 random 100 m
10.2307/2996993|The Sandhills region of the southeastern United States is characterized as having deep, xeric, sandy soils supporting forest types comprised largely of two species, longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) and turkey oak (Quercus laevis). This study examined species composition with respect to elevation in the Boyd Tract, a 66 ha old growth longleaf pine forest in the North Carolina Sandhills. Sixty plots were established within two distinct site types: an atypical mesic type at higher (>165 m) elevations (uplands) and a more typical xeric type at lower (165 m) elevations (lowlands). Canonical discriminant analysis revealed distinct clusters of plots associated with these topographic positions on the first canonical axis. Strongest canonical correlations on this axis were found for hardwood species: negative for turkey oak; positive for black oak (Q. velutina), hickories (Carya spp.), and dogwood (Cornus florida). Sand content showed a significant negative relationship with clay content, representing a texture gradient between a maximum sand content of 92% in the lowland and a maximum clay content of 17% in the upland. There was a significant negative correlation between canonical axis 1 scores and sand content and a significant positive correlation between axis 1 scores and clay content. These data suggest that soil texture may be largely responsible for the distribution of hardwood species, but not longleaf pine, within this old growth forest. The higher clay content (and presumably higher moisture and fertility) of the upland soils have allowed for the development of a forest type which, with the exception of large, infrequent longleaf stems, more closely resembles the oak-hickory forests of the adjacent North Carolina Piedmont than would be expected, given its location within the Sandhills region.
10.2307/2996941|Root distribution by depth, size class and community type was evaluated along a chronosequence on Hog Island, part of the Virginia Coast Reserve Long Term Ecological Research site. Total nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations in roots were also determined. The communities included an Ammophila breviligulata dune, two Myrica cerifera stands and two Spartina patens communities. Most biomass was within the top 20 cm of soil representing 75% to 93% of total biomass. Distributions of root mass among size classes varied among sites. On Spartina sites, most total biomass (70% to 84%) was in the <2 mm size class. The 2-5 mm size class (59%) dominated the dune site and the >5 mm size class (51% to 78%) dominated the Myrica sites. Total biomass increased with site age ranging from 372 g/m
10.2307/2482123|1. The three-dimensional shapes of 100 cork cambium and 100 cork cells from the stem of Pelargonium hortorum Bailey were reconstructed for the purpose of making a comparison between lateral meristem cells and the cells produced by them. A comparison was also made between dividing and non-dividing cork cambium cells. 2. Measurements of the cork cambium cells show them to be elongate in a direction parallel to the axis of the plant and to have a rectangular outline in cross-section, with a shorter radial than tangential dimension. Cork cells were similarly elongate, but had the radial dimension larger than that of the cork cambium cells. 3. Dividing cork cambium cells had a higher average number of faces per cell (14.92) than non-dividing cells (13.46) presumably due, at least in part, to the greater number of adjacent dividing cells in the former group. 4. The data tended to demonstrate that the increase in the number of faces per cell preceded the actual division of the cell. 5. In the material analyzed, the cork cells were of two general kinds, one produced by cork cambium cells that had undergone an anticlinal division, and the second, cork cells that came from a cork cambium cell that had not undergone such a division. The average number of faces per cell for the former group was 13.10, while the average for the latter was 14.72 faces per cell. 6. Non-dividing cork cambium cells resembled cork cells more closely than they did dividing cork cambium cells. 7. Pentagonal faces occurred most frequently in both the cork and cork cambium cells; quadrilaterals came next in frequency in the cork cambium cells, followed by hexagons; in the cork cells hexagons came second with quadrilaterals third. 8. There were 86 different combinations of faces in the cork cambium cells and 55 combinations in the cork cells. Cork cells were more homogeneous in this respect and had two combinations which occurred 9 times, consisting of 4 quadrilaterals, 4 pentagons, and 6 hexagons (4-4-6), and 3 quadrilaterals, 6 pentagons, and 2 hexagons (3-6-2). In the cork cambium cells the two most frequently occurring combinations appeared 3 times and contained 5 quadrilaterals, 4 pentagons, 4 hexagons, and 2 heptagons (5-4-4-2), and 2 quadrilaterals, 8 pentagons, and 3 hexagons (2-8-3). 9. An average cork cambium cell could logically be reconstructed from the data. This hypothetical average cell had 14 faces distributed as follows: 1 face for each of 2 tangential surfaces, 4 faces each for 2 radial surfaces, and 2 faces each for the top and bottom surface. 10. Many aspects of the shapes of the cork cells could be explained in terms of the divisions which occurred in the cork cambium cells producing these cells, and by the positions of the radial surfaces of the cells above and below the cork cells being studied. 11. A serial sequence of the cork cells produced by a single cork cambium cell showed that the cells in such a sequence were similar but not identical to one another both with respect to the kinds of faces and to the arrangements of those faces.
10.2307/2996159|Tree regeneration was investigated on six sites disturbed by fire at and immediately below the upper altitudinal tree limit in the Colorado Front Range. Before disturbance, the sites with greatest topographic shelter were dominated by Engelmann spruce (Picea engelmannii) and subalpine fir (Abies lasiocarpa) The most xeric sites were dominated by limber pine (Pinus flexilis). High intersite variability in regeneration rates and population densities suggest that early forest stand development was not closely related to elapsed time since disturbance, but varied depending upon topography. Among the xeric sites that were regenerating, limber pine was among the most frequently noted species. Conversely, Engelmann spruce, and to a lesser extent subalpine fir, were found with highest densities on the less xeric sites. In general, these patterns of establishment are consistent with those noted in other studies of forest stand development at lower altitudes in the subalpine forest of the Colorado Front Range. Two of the burned sites were not regenerating. It is hypothesized that lack of seed caching by Clark's Nutcracker (Nucifraga columbiana), the primary seed disperser for limber pine, was limiting colonization of these sites. All sites were at an early stage of successional development, and a forest canopy cover had not yet developed. Rates of regeneration suggest that in most cases the tree limit will return to its former altitudinal position. However, it may be several centuries before these sites develop stands similar to those that existed before disturbance.
10.2307/2483550|The New World genus Appunia and New World representatives of Morinda of the tribe Morindeae (Rubiaceae) have unique fruits and seeds which readily segregate these from 41 genera of the Rubioideae. The fruits are 4-loculate, each locule with one pyrene. The endocarp of the pyrene develops a bladder-like cavity on the adaxial side. The seeds are vascular and winged; the trabeculae of the alar cells readily segregate the genera. The sclerenchyma elements of the seed suggest a close relationship between the tribe Morindeae and the tribe Coussareae. The description of the Panamanian species, Appunia seibertii Standley, used in the present study, is emended; a key to the Central American spp. of Morinda and Appunia is included.
10.2307/2483327|Cytological evidence from Plantago ovata (n = 4) supports the concept that homologous chromosome pairing occurs at latest before the beginning of the last premeiotic interphase before meiosis. Homologous chromosome pairing is evident in both those flower parts destined and not destined to undergo meiosis. Observations support earlier work which indicate each of the eight chromosomes is represented in interphase by a distinct heterochromatic prochromosome. A reduction from eight prochromosomes in root tip cells to four prochromosomes in all flower tissues indicate a reduction of prochromosome number by pairing. The paired condition of prochromosomes is visible through the last premeiotic interphase until shortly before the first meiotic division begins.
10.2307/2995935|A Spartina alterniflora Loisel. (Gramineae)-dominated salt marsh located along the Elorn River at 48.5
10.2307/2996561|The importance of fluctuation (non-directional irregular changes), regeneration (recovery from disturbance) and landscape heterogeneity upon a tallgrass prairie in northeast Kansas, which is prescribe burned in the spring once every 4 years, is described. All three processes were shown to be important in influencing, to varying degrees, the structure, life forms, and overall species composition. The biomass of grass, forbs and litter, and the relative abundance of different life forms were highly coupled with the burning cycle. Relative abundance of only a few species was related to the burning cycle, most species varied according to yearly climatic variation, soil type and differences between watershed units In contrast, the frequency of a number of annual species was related to the burning cycle Overall community patterns were related primarily to original landscape heterogeneity and secondarily to the burning cycle. Recognition of these patterns was a function of the scale of analysis
10.2307/2996539|Sandhill vegetation dominated by Pinus palustris, Pinus elliottii var densa, Quercus laevis, and Aristida stricta, and sand pine scrub dominated by Pinus clausa, scrub oaks, and Carya floridana form mutually exclusive, fire-dependent communities on Florida's sand ridges Soil differences have long been attributed as causing this separation Data from 1932 maps, 1929 photo plots, vegetation analyses, age structure of the pines, and fire scar dates indicate sandhills convert to xeric hardwood-mixed pine after approximately 50 years without fire, e g, importance value of Carya floridana increased from 3 2 to 75 6; relative importance value of scrub species increased from 2 5 to 54 percent This intermediate stage may develop into a xeric hardwood forest without fire, and with fire it may be replaced by sand pine scrub Apparently different fire regimes not soil differences separate the two vegetation types Historic and prehistoric shifts in fire regimes may account for the distribution of the two types
10.2307/2996288|Fifteen new populations of the rare Carex biltmoreana were found during the 1981 to 1983 growing seasons. C. biltmoreana is closely related to C. woodii, C. tetanica, C. meadii, but can easily be separated from these taxa on the basis of vegetative characters. The range of the Biltmore sedge includes the Blue Ridge province of southwestern North Carolina, northwestern South Carolina, and northeastern Georgia. Here, the plant is confined to wet, partially-shaded, granitic rock faces. At present, only 21 populations of C. biltmoreana are known.
10.2307/2484153|The ultrastructural characteristics of the two types of conducting cells in mosses, leptoids and hydroids, are discussed in relation to the hypothesis that the bryophytes (mosses) evolved from a vascularized ancestral type that possessed many of the sporophytic attributes of the psilophytales but retained a more complex autotrophic gametophyte. The developmental trends in the conducting tissues of mosses are presented and are used to illustrate how research on bryophytic conducting systems can contribute to defining the structural level of conducting tissue in the ancestral type of land plant that gave rise to the bryophytes and tracheophytes.
10.2307/2997104|Woody species in an Appalachian Oak watershed in Shenandoah National Park, VA, were intensively sampled to investigate spatial vegetation patterns with respect to topography, and to predict future forest dynamics. Canonical correlation, cluster analysis, and discriminant analysis demonstrate that both individual species and species assemblages are significantly related to topographic variables; however, there is a great deal of unexplained variance in the data. Correlation analysis on a subset of the data shows that factors such as shrub cover and surface rockiness, which are relatively independent of topography, tend to be more important predictors of forest composition. A study of diameter distributions suggests that most species' populations are stable or increasing in number. Exceptions to this include the dominant species in the watershed, Quercus spp., in particular, Quercus prinus, all of which have relatively low numbers of seedlings. Nevertheless, analysis of life-history attributes of these species, as well as a computer simulation of forest dynamics for this area, suggest that Quercus spp. will continue to retain their position of dominance in the future, with Quercus rubra becoming increasingly important relative to Quercus prinus.
10.2307/2996663|Morphological and restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) data were analyzed to determine the phylogenetic affinities of I. gracilis and species previously considered allied with that species on the basis of morphology. Both data sets indicate that the names I. gracilis and I. littoralis represent not only distinct species, but that they should be placed in different sections of the genus: I. gracilis in section Erpipomoea or a distinct related section, and I. littoralis in section Batatas. The data further indicate that the pantropical littoral species I. pes-caprae and I. violacea may be closely allied with different species endemic to Australia.
10.2307/2996645|Regeneration by woody species on a 1-year-old whole-tree harvested clearcut in a Maine hardwood stand was examined with respect to stem origin (advance regeneration, new seedlings, or sprouts) by species. Sprouts dominated (79%) the biomass with new stems and advanced regeneration contributing 13% and 8%, respectively. In contrast, density was about evenly divided between sprouts (50%) and new stems (47%). The most important contributors to sprout density were Fagus grandifolia (50%) and Populus spp. (25%), but Populus spp. contributed the most to sprout biomass (52%) due to the greater size of their stems. Advance regeneration density (only 3% of total density) was due almost entirely to Acer saccharum (56%) and Acer rubrum (41%), but the latter dominated the biomass of advance stems (81%) due to a few large individuals in one plot. Prunus pensylvanica (18%), Rubus spp. (34%), and Betula spp. (35%) dominated new stem density, but the first two contributed 83% of the new stem biomass. Frequency of occurrence for the above-mentioned species ranged from 37-80%, and each species, with the exception of A. pensylvanicum and Betula spp., dominated (accounted for >80%) the biomass of at least one plot. Most species were represented primarily by one form of regeneration: A. pensylvanicum, F. grandifolia, and Populus spp. (sprouts); Betula spp., Prunus pensylvanica, and Rubus spp. (new seedlings). A. saccharum and A. rubrum were represented by a mixture of sprouts, advanced seedlings, and/or new seedlings.
10.2307/2484029|Shoot production of five populations of Typha latifolia on infertile sites ranged from 530 to 1,132 g dry wt/m
10.2307/2481797|Three representatives of Emilia occur in West Africa, and one plant (E. guineensis) is considered to have been erroneously referred to this genus. One representative of the genus is reported here for the first time as an element of the West African flora; its proper designation has not been determined. Mitotic and meiotic analyses were made for the three West African plants: two were diploid (2n = 10, n = 5), one tetraploid. Idiograms of chromosomes give no evidence of phyletic relations. But the tetraploid seems to have some affinity to E. coccinea which, as a tetraploid, is a tropical American weed and which is the only other cytologically known representative of the genus.
10.2307/2482462|1. Prescribed burning, while removing the litter layer, favors development of a bryophyte-lichen layer. This layer may cover as much as 48% of the ground. 2. Three species of turf type represent 98% of the moss cover, one species of cushion type little over 1%, and three species of mat type cover about 0.5%. Lichens cover nearly as much area as bryophytes. 3. Under laboratory conditions, well developed moss mats of the kind studied when air dried may absorb an average of .62 inches of rainfall, ranging from .52 inches (Dicranum) to .68 (Ceratodon and Leucobryum). Well developed lichen mats may absorb from .15 inches to .28 inches depending on the species. 4. Assuming the mosses dry out completely between storms, they may intercept as much as 50% of the throughfall where they occur. Lichens may intercept about half as much as the mosses. 5. As an interceptor of precipitation the bryophyte layer, even at its maximum, is, on an area basis, probably never as important as the thick, continuous litter layer of areas not subjected to prescribed burning.
10.2307/2996366|The forest vegetation (stems  2.5 cm dbh) of the Knobs Region of Kentucky was studied at eight sites to provide baseline information concerning species composition, stand structure and species-environment relations in this distinct geologic and physiographic region. Species composition closely resembled that of the Cumberland Plateau of eastern Kentucky. However, important differences exist which suggest comparison with both the Oak-Hickory Forest and the Oak-Chestnut Forest. Four recognizable groups of plots were identified by indirect ordination of 147 sample plots. A mesophytic hardwoods group comparable to the mixed mesophytic forest of the Cumberland Plateau was readily distinguished from plots dominated by Quercus alba, Q. coccinea, and Q. prinus. Samples of the mesophytic hardwoods exhibited a gradient in composition from plots with Fagus grandifolia as a dominant to those with Acer saccharum and Liriodendron tulipifera. Samples of this group were restricted to protected coves where potential solar radiation was lower and soil pH and fertility were higher. Oak-dominated plots showed a gradient in composition between the three extremes in which Q. alba, Q. coccinea, and Q. prinus, respectively, were dominant. No consistent environmental trends seemed to distinguish the distributions of these three oak-dominated groups, and their occurrence may be the product of a geographical gradient of the dominant species rather than distribution along local environmental gradients. Plots dominated by either Q. alba or Q. prinus showed higher concentration of dominance, suggesting that interactions between these dominants and their associates may be more antagonistic than in mesophytic forest hardwoods and Q. coccinea plots.
10.2307/2484394|Lime-shells, oospores and starch grains from Nitellopsis obtusa (Desv. in Lois.). J. Gr., a modern charophyte (alga), were studied. Immature lime-shells were identical to those of fossil Tectochara merianii (Heer) L. & N. Grambast except for a smaller size range. Mature lime-shells were identical to those of T diluviana (Madler) L. Grambast. Lime-shells of T. ixtapensis Daily were similar but the largest. The Tectochara-Nitellopsis sequence apparently developed in the Oligocene (possibly Cretaceous) exhibiting lime-shells with an apical rosette, a conspicuous hour-glass-shaped pore and a wide, thin, deeply placed basal plug. The lime-shells of this series show little change from the most ancient species to the modern Nitellopsis obtusa. However, the branchlets differ slightly. Large starch grains from the oospores of Nit. obtusa are simple, semi-compound (rarely compound) differing considerably from the large simple grains of Lamprothamnium. This further substantiates the transferal (Daily 1967) of Nit. bulbillifera C. C. Dont., which also has large, simple grains, to Lamprothamnium. Apparently, lime-shells of the modern L. hornemannii (Wallm.) Daily are only superficially similar to those of the fossil T. ixtapensis. Instead, there is a greater resemblance (because of the large apical pore) to those of the Jurassic organ-genus Porochara. Thus, the Porochara-Lamprothamnium series extends from the Jurassic to the present with not much change in the external characteristics of the lime-shell from P. kimmeridgensis Madler to L. hornemannii except for size.
10.2307/2481930|1. Despite the failure thus far to obtain viable confirmed hybrids of G. gossypioides with other American wild species, the pairing behavior in the F
10.2307/2484154|Exogenously applied auxin and gibberellin elicit morphogenetic responses in bryophytes much as they do in vascular plants. Auxin stimulated rhizoid formation as well as cell proliferation and elongation. Endogenous physiological systems can be identified and characterized that are normally associated with the expression of these growth regulators. Auxin oxidase and phenolic cofactors have been found in a liverwort. Specialized tissues transport auxin under aerobic conditions with a predictable directionality. Apical dominance is manifested and is related to the levels of growth regulators. Gibberellin promotes cell enlargement, chloroplast development and starch degradation; in conjunction with photoperiod, it can influence geotropic curvature. Gibberellin also elicits ultrastructural changes in starch granules and thylakoids. The accumulated evidence supports the supposition that the plant growth regulators express developmental control in bryophytes analogous to their function in tracheophytes.
10.2307/2996070|Procambial development was followed in pistils of Muhlenbergia using serially sectioned spikelets. Immediately after stylar initiation, the pistil is a residual meristem lacking procambium. Two stylar procambial strands begin in the lower flanks of the ovary. Next a procambial placental bundle forms below the ovule between the stylar procambia. Basipetal differentiation from the union of the placental bundle and the stylar traces then links procambium differentiating acropetally from near the stamen insertions. After the parenchyma gap between the pistil and the stamen insertions is bridged, a second procambial site occurs near each style's insertion. Subsequently the upper and lower procambia for each style fuse. Procambial development like that of Muhlenbergia by which the placental and stylar bundles merge below the ovule (the gynobasic pattern) may be more widespread among the grass subfamilies than development in which the stylar traces merge with the placental bundle above the base of the ovule (the gynomedian pattern).
10.2307/2996021|A comparison of how microrelief (fine-grained soil surface heterogeneity) influenced plant species diversity (richness and equitability) was made along a subalpine coenocline. There were significant differences among six sites, but the influence of microrelief on diversity was strongly influenced by community productivity Where productivity is low, environmental stress overwhelms any microrelief effects that might enhance diversity. Where productivity is moderate, diversity is positively related to some measures of microrelief, but not to others Communities with high productivity show a negative correlation between diversity and measures of surface heterogeneity. Microscale heterogeneity at the scale measured in these subalpine meadows has a secondary role in molding community structure The degree of productivity, competition, and grazing are of greater importance, but microrelief must be taken into account for a full understanding of community dynamics
10.2307/2484627|In an attempt to establish the effect of water extracts of a known allelopathic species upon growth, photosynthesis, respiration, and water content of Andropogon gerardi, A. scoparius, and Bromus japonicus, seedlings of these grasses were grown in nutrient solution enriched with boiled aqueous leaf extract of Celtis laevigata. The extracts decreased shoot and root growth of all test species. Net CO
10.2307/2484535|Voitia hyperborea was first proposed by Greville and Arnott in 1822 on the basis of a specimen collected in 1820 on Melville Island in the Canadian Arctic Archipelago during one of the early British voyages of arctic exploration. Because of its restriction to arctic regions, this moss has remained poorly understood, and has been placed incorrectly in the synonymy of V. nivalis Hornsch., a species of the Alps, the Rocky Mountains, and Turkestan. However, the two species are quite separate and differ conspicuously, especially in their capsule shape, V. nivalis having an elongated, narrowly ovate-cylindrical capsule, and V. hyperborea a much shorter and broader capsule shaped like an inverted funnel. The patterns of geographical distribution of the two species are also entirely different. Illustrations are provided to show these morphological differences, as well as the geographic range of V. hyperborea in North America.
10.2307/2996469|Emily Lovira Gregory (1841-1897) of Barnard College, New York, was the first American woman to receive a doctorate in botany (1886) and to write a plant anatomy book. The annotated bibliography contains three lists: Gregory's 51 papers and reviews of publications (1886-1897, 1987); her 16 talks and two exhibits (1889-1896); accounts of her life.
10.2307/2483274|Cytological investigations were made on the meiosis of the monocarpic Gebang Palm. Corypha elata Roxburgh, and the meiotic division of the P.M.C.'s was described. The entire flowering period of C. elata is shorter than of the previously investigated species, C. umbraculifera. The meiotic division of C. elata takes place before its feathery inflorescence appears, and its division also occurs more rapidly. In the prophase of the first meiotic division, two phenomena were observed, i.e., the budding of the nucleoli and the formation of a Feulgen-positive substance at the nucleolar organizing region. According to the size of their buds, 9312 nucleoli were grouped into five catagories. These catagories were correlated with the seven subphases (from resting stage to diakinesis) of the first meiotic division. The first small buds appear at leptotene, and the buds grow in size gradually during the subsequent phases. Simultaneously, the proportion of the budded nucleoli increases. This process culminates in late pachytene. From early diplotene the majority of these buds seem to become gradually reduced in size and they disappear by early diakinesis. To determine whether the budding process is involved with an increase in the amount of nucleolar substance, by synthesis of new nucleolar material, or only an alteration of the shape of the nucleolus, the volume of 329 nucleoli and their corresponding buds was measured. These nucleoli were grouped again into five categories, and in each category the average volume of the total nucleolar bulk was computed. The data obtained have shown that there was no increase in the total volume of the nucleolar body. Budding increases the surface of the nucleolar body, and this may indicate that the metabolic activity of the nucleolus is intensified during the formation of buds. The location of the nucleolar organizing region, i.e., the attachment of the SAT chromosomes, is similar to that in C. umbraculifera. On budded nucleoli the attachment segment is collar-like, situated on the narrowest part of the nucleolar bulk between the nucleolus and the bud. At early zygotene a Feulgen-positive substance appears partly at this region and partly at the upper segment of the SAT threads, attached directly to the nucleolar organizing region. Diakinesis metaphase and subsequent phases of the first and second divisions were normal. The haploid chromosome number of C. elata is 18. As no constant or repeated secondary pairing was observed, C. elata is not considered a polyploid species. This observation supports Sato (1952) who suggested that the basic number of "Corypheae" is identical with the haploid number, n = 18.
10.2307/2483162|1. Averting pairs of cultures of D. maydis when seeded simultaneously in potato-dextrose broth and incubated for 10 to 20 days at a temperature ranging between 22
10.2307/2482269|The Pacific North American species of Dictyotaceae heretofore known under the name Dictyota. in the older, broader sense are examined. The generic segregates Dilophus, Pachydictyon and Dictyota are recognized according to J, G. Agardh, 1894. Dilophus pinnatus Dawson is described as new from Nayarit, Mexico. Pachydictyon Binghamiae Dawson is a new combination being inclusive of the plants known from Pacific America as Dictyota Binghamiae J. Ag, from the Gulf of California as D. Johnstonii S. & G. and from Japan as Pachydictyon coriaceum (Holmes) Okam. Dilophus Okamurai Dawson is a new name for a plant of Japan heretofore known as Dilophus marginatus (non J. Ag.) Okam. It is newly reported from Pacific Mexico. Dictyota cribrosa S. & G. is recognized as including those plants of the Monterey, California and Cape Arago, Oregon regions heretofore known as Dictyota flabellata. Dictyota hesperia S. & G. is shown to have been erroneously described and is reduced under D. flabellata (Collins) S. & G. Its distinction from Pachydictyon Binghamiae (Dictyota Johnstonii) in the Gulf of California is clarified. Dictyota Vivesii Howe is reduced under D. dichotoma (Huds.) Lamour which is newly reported from Pacific Mexico. Dictyota concrescens Taylor is treated as an inadequately known species.
10.2307/2483382|The addition of a water extract of beech wood to a "complete" medium (R) of mineral salts, dextrose, casein hydrolysate, vitamins and purine and pyrimidine bases, had a marked favorable effect on the growth of each of eight basidiomycetes investigated. Growth of Fomes fulvus (Scop. ex Fr.) Gill., Hymenochaete rubiginosa (Dicks. ex Fr.) Lev., and Polyporus radiatus Sow. ex Fr., was substantially improved by increasing the Mn, Zn, Fe, and Ca in the (R) medium. Additional minerals had little or no effect on Corticium lividum Pers. ex Fr., Hydnum chrysocomum Underwood, Peniophora coccineofulva (Schw.) Burt., Poria tenuis (Schw.) Cooke, and Stereum fasciatum (Schw.) Fr. The addition of ferulic acid to the (R) medium supplemented with Mn, Zn, Fe and Ca increased the growth of seven of the fungi. It had little or no effect on Peniophora coccineofulva. Growth of Fomes fulvus and Polyporus radiatus in the (R) medium supplemented with additional Mn, Zn, Fe and Ca and 200  g per culture of ferulic acid equaled or surpassed growth in the (R) medium plus wood extract. The growth of Corticium lividum, Hydnum chrysocomum, Poria tenuis and Stereum fasciatum was improved by the addition of ferulic acid, but the maximum growth did not equal that obtained with wood extract.
10.2307/2483874|Didymodon columbianus is described from two localities along the Columbia River in Oregon and Washington. It is distinguished from other American species of the genus primarily in having the peristome almost obsolete.
10.2307/2484942|Leaves of marihuana plants growing at low elevations, compared to ones growing at higher elevations, are smaller, dull-green in color, and have higher stomatal frequency. They also have longer and more numerous trichomes.
10.2307/2482785|1. This investigation presents a taxonomic treatment of five closely related, perennial species of the genus Setaria from the southwestern United States and northern Mexico. 2. Evidence in the form of chromosome numbers, populational studies, and a reevaluation of morphological characters has been presented to support the interpretation that S. macrostachya H.B.K. (sensu Hitchcock) should be separated into three distinct species; S. texana sp. nov., S. macrostachya H.B.K. (sensu stricta) and S. leucopila (Scribn. & Merr.) K. Schum. 3. Similar evidence has been applied in clarifying the species limits of S. scheelei (Steud.) Hitchc. and S. villosissima (Scribn. & Merr.) K. Schum.
10.2307/2484189|Under experimental conditions, flowers of Hepatica acutiloba produce far fewer achenes when denied access to the pollen of coblooming plants. A total of forty floral foragers that represented three insect orders, composed of eleven genera and nine definitely identified species were collected bearing sternotribic loads of the host plant's pollen. Results of experimental data, forager collection and personal observation demonstrate that xenogamy is the dominant mode of pollination in this species via an entomophilous syndrome and is affected largely by early emerging, solitary bees.
10.2307/2483399|The radiocarbon dates of bottom samples from McDonalds Branch bog and a bog in a meander scar of the Oswego River are given. The former was determined as 9125  195 B.P. and the latter as 10,485  240 B.P. The impact of these dates on the interpretation of the published pollen diagrams for the area is discussed.
10.2307/2996411|Leaf macronutrient variation was studied in four plant communities in the Dismal Swamp of Virginia Soils and species composition differed markedly between sites Eight important overstory trees were studied in August, 1980; whereas red maple (Acer rubrum L) and black gum (Nyssa sylvatica var biflora (Walter) Sargent), which occurred on all four sites, were sampled seasonally Significant differences were found in foliar nutrient concentrations between species, seasons, and sites. Potassium and phosphorus appear to be limiting in the swamp as indicated by sub-optimal levels in the leaves The tree species which dominate the swamp overstory accumulate lower amounts of macronutrients than many other hardwood species Despite the rather poor edaphic conditions, some tree species in the swamp display foliar nutrient levels similar to those found in the same species on upland sites
10.2307/2996017|Seasonal patterns of leaf water potential and stomatal conductances were determined for two species of goldenrods (Solidago juncea, a dry site species, and S canadensis, a wet site species) in greenhouse experiments Both seedlings and genetically-identical clonal transplants grown across broad gradients of soil moisture-holding capacity were used The size of seedlings of each species was positively related to soil moisture availability, yet there were no differences in leaf water potentials or stomatal conductances across the gradient Seedlings of S juncea had lower leaf water potentials than did S canadensis throughout the day, but similar stomatal conductances, reflecting the larger leaf size of S juncea The mean number of stomata per unit area of fully-expanded leaf were similar for the two species (179 9  18 7 mm
10.2307/2484663|Maihuenia, a genus of pulviform cacti endemic to southern South America, is anatomically described for the two putative species. Stems of both species have medullary and cortical mucilage reservoirs, no collenchymatous hypodermis, and an unusual epidermis with tangentially thickened primary walls. Unlike Opuntioideae, Maihuenia lacks stellate druses in the outermost cortex. The small, terete leaves have a central mucilage reservoir surrounded by a vascular reticulum, large mucilage cells within the chlorenchyma, and an epidermis similar to that of the stem. Stem secondary xylem is at first nonfibrous, composed of very short and narrow vessel elements and vascular tracheids with secondary thickenings and unlignified fusiform parenchyma cells. Older stems produce clusters of short libriform fibers in discontinuous concentric bands, pitted vessel elements, few, if any, vascular tracheids, and unlignified fusiform parenchyma cells. Wood fiber production occurs earlier in decumbent stems than in basal stems, but fibers are evidently more abundant in basal portions. The main root is highly succulent and produces no wood fibers, whereas large secondary and very thin adventitious roots are progressively less succulent and produce fibers. Ontogenetic changes in xylem cell types and lateral walls in Maihuenia are more easily understood from analyses of differences in growth regulator concentrations rather than arguments based solely on plant-water relationships and mechanical considerations. Vegetative features of Maihuenia negate its inclusion in Opuntioideae and suggest that Maihuenia shares ancestry with certain large-leaved, fruticose species of Pereskia endemic to the Andes.
10.2307/2997147|1. Short photoperiods of 8 and 10 hours given to one and two week old seedlings of late sown Dalua (spring) variety of rice grown in Orissa till the time of ear emergence have induced flowering within 3 months as against 7 months required by the control plants. 2. Although the short photoperiod treated plants flowered early, the yield was very poor. There were fewer grains and spikelets per ear. The lower percentage of grain setting observed is attributed to the interaction of high temperature and low relative humidity with the prevailing length of day.
10.2307/2481806|1. Synchytrium modioliensis produces two main types of galls on the leaves of Modiola caroliniana and other malvaceous hosts, sporangial and resting spore galls. 2. The predominant type of sporangial gall usually is large, protruding, sub-spherical, oval, oblong, assymetrical, dark reddish-lavender, composite and multicellular, and consists of a greatly enlarged infected cell which is almost completely or partly surrounded by a sheath of one to three layers of healthy cells. Usually, the opening or pore to the infected cell is subapical, but it may be almost lateral or sublateral and vary markedly in dimensions. In rare cases the sporangial galls may be simple and unicellular or bi- and tri-cellular. Accordingly, they may vary from simple to composite, but the latter type is predominant. No compound galls have been found. 3. The resting spore galls, on the other hand, are small, predominantly, simple and unicellular and usually consist only of an enlarged infected cell. The latter may project partly above the surface of the host or be partly submerged in the host tissues. Occasionally or rarely resting spore galls may become bi-, tri-, and multicellular, so that they also vary from simple to composite. However, the simple unicellular gall is the predominant type. 4. Sometimes infection and development of sporangia or resting spores do not result in gall development. In most cases of infection of trichomes observed, cell division and cell enlargement were lacking. However, in occasional instances an infected cell of the stellate trichomes was transformed into an incomplete sporangial gall.
10.2307/2484444|The location and performance of understory herb patches may be influenced by a number of environmental factors. Patch density is related to variation in average plant size and reproductive patterns in some clonal perennial species. It has been predicted that among clonal species of stable habitats levels of vegetative reproduction (VRE) should decrease relative to levels of sexual reproduction (SRE) with increasing density or intraspecific competitive stress. The results of an earlier analysis of the reproductive patterns of Aster acuminatus; a perennial herb which colonizes gaps in the forest, revealed no relationship between density and average plant size, level of sexual reproduction, or level of vegetative reproduction. Among patches at a younger forest, where light levels and patch densities exceed those used in the earlier study in a mature forest, average plant weight decreases with increasing density, SRE exhibits a complex relationship with density, and VRE is constant across a wide range of densities. Plant size, which plays an important role in determining reproductive patterns, is also influenced by the favorability of past growing seasons. From patterns exhibited by patches experiencing different light and density regimes, a diagrammatic model of the dynamics of an aster patch is constructed.
10.2307/2484490|This study compares the response of understory herbs to small scale changes in soil depth in low diversity forests in the Adirondack and a high diversity cove forest in the Great Smoky Mountains. The species distributions along the gradient were similar in both areas. The increase in species diversity in the cove forest site was not related to an increase in species packing along the soil depth gradient, but appeared to be related to species' response to other environmental factors.
10.2307/2482724|1. The purpose of the study was (a) to determine the causal origin of the centripetal deposits of oxidized phenols in the 0 type endodermis, (b) to de- termine whether apparent variations in the endodermis through zones of species range and environ are a result of functional response by adjustment, (c) to determine whether a given endodermal cell type is a fixed phe- nomenon within each clone. 2. High latitude and high altitude (northern) plants were found to have, in the subaerial stem, an endodermis with centripetal walls containing oxidized and deposited phenol derivatives. 3. In low latitude and low altitude (southern) plants the endodermis of subaerial stems did not regularly contain deposits of oxidized phenols. 4. The deposition of oxidized phenols was found to be irregular and dif- fuse in plants intermediate in range. 5. Clonal transplants showed response to new habitat by development of a more pronounced endodermis in northern situations but in general an irregular or weak endodermis developed in southern and tropical forms grown under northern conditions. Northern forms grown under southern or tropical conditions did not develop an endodermis of the conspicuous 0 type. 6. Spectrophotometric analyses of cortical extracts, and direct micro- spectrophotometric analyses of the phenolic content of the cortical cells in fresh sections, showed that the quantity of polyphenols was in general greater in northern than in southern, prairie or full-sun forms. The moun- tain and shade forms of several species developed browning reaction prod- ucts in cortical extracts; these browning products transmitted less light at 640 mup than similar extracts from clones grown in full sun in northern coastal plain, prairie or field habitats. 7. Phenols obtained from the cortex were compared photometrically with known phenols. Transmission of the indophenol color products of the reaction of 2,6-Dichloroquinonechloroimide with phenol extracts from th cortex were compared with the indophenols obtained with phloroglucinol. Phloroglucinol was found to be the probable phenolic substance present in cortical cells and endodermal cells prior to the browning reaction. The diaminomethylbenzaldehyde test for phloroglucinol gave a stable and diag- nostic color product in fresh sections and extracts confirming the presence of phloroglucinol.8. It may be concluded that phloroglucinol and possibly other poly- phenols are the precursors to the browning products functionally developed in the O type endodermis and adventitiously induced in the cortex by wounding and making cortical extracts. Northern forms of Smilax produce large amounts of oxidizable phloroglucinol derivatives in subaerial stems and the endodermis is prominently developed up to the groundline. South- ern forms develop smaller amounts of phloroglucinol derivates in subaerial stems, even when grown under northern conditions, and the 0 type endo- dermis is absent or irregularly developed. 9. It is apparent that phenolic oxidation and deposition to form the O type endodermis in subaerial stems is a response to environ limited pri- marily to northern or intermediate species. Supportive evidence for the causal mechanism (tannin -- polyphenol A+/- quinone -- phlobaphesns ->0 type endodermis) has been adduced but the evolutionary significance has not been revealed.
10.2307/2482993|1. The results of studies on the growth rates of six lichens are summarized for a period of about nine years. 2. The foliose species Parmelia isidiata has grown regularly at the rate of 1.6 mm. per year in radius.3. Crustose species increased in radius from .33 to 1.4 mm. per year. 4. Records of coverage in the rock quadrats and a smmnary of the soil stations are also presented.
10.2307/2483795|The bryophyte component of 9 ecosystems including alpine, coniferous, northern hardwoods, oak woods and intervening types was studied at Mt. Washington, N.H. Coverage in the ecosystems studied varies from 3,136 cm
10.2307/2484521|Germination of pollen of Cupressus benthamii, C. macrocarpa and C. sempervirens on artificial nutrient medium was studied, and tissue culture was derived from the generative cell of C. benthamii on a modified White's medium. As a result of differences between the artificial nutrient medium and natural conditions, various anomalies were observed in germination of the pollen. Some of these differences may have phylogenetic significance.
10.2307/2482193|Eleven strains of yeasts belonging to the genus Saccharomyces were investigated for their vitamin requirements. Two were autotrophic and nine heterotrophic. Most strains of S. cerevisiae required biotin and pantothenic acid for growth and strains of S. carlsbergensis required pyridoxine. One S. carlsbergensis strain was heterozygous for methionine synthesis. Synthesis of methionine and of pyridoxine were found to be dominant over non-synthesis. Two pantothenic acid deficient yeast strains, one being S. cerevisiae and the other S. carlsbergensis, could not synthesise -alanine but the hybrid between the two could do so. It has been concluded therefore that the two strains lack two different genes controlling the synthesis of -alanine.
10.2307/2997051|A detailed study of the floral morphology and anatomy of sixspecies comprising both genera of the small dicotyledonous family Caryocaraceae is presented. Important and previously unreported differences between the two genera are: ovules bitegmic in Caryocar, ovules unitegmic in Anthodiscus; styles simple in Caryocar; styles compound in Anthodiscus; and major variation in floral vascularization including the more extensive fusion of major traces in Anthodiscus. Stamen fascicle traces are reported for the first-time in the family, and in combination with other features, clearly link the family to the Theales. Comparisons are made between the multicarpellate, synovarial gynoecium and fruit of the Caryocaraceae and similar organs of the monotypic family Medusagynaceae. The high number (15+) of stamen fascicle traces per flower is interpreted as probably the result of advanced stamen proliferation. Gynoecia are richly vascularized by a complex network of wall veins, although distinct dorsal, or median, carpellary bundles are absent. Small prismatic crystals and large deposits of resin-like material are widely distributed throughout all floral parts. Original observations are presented on the unique, enlarged stamen filament epidermal cells or vesicles. It is shown by SEM that these cells have numerous, membrane-covered wall perforations, and it is suggested that the cells function in the rapid release and uptake of water during filament erection and subsequent anther dehiscence.
10.2307/2995932|Pedicularis densiflora in California was found to be animal pollinator dependent. Younger flowers with short corolla tubes were pollinated by short-tongued Bombus edwardsii workers foraging primarily for nectar, while older flowers with deep tubes were pollinated by nectar-foraging Anna and rufous hummingbirds. Scarlet corollas apparently attract birds, while magenta calyces and floral bracts with highly ultraviolet reflective hairs attract bumblebees. Nectar concentration (sucrose equivalents) varied from 15.0 to 24.5%; only fructose and sucrose were present. Cinematographic and stereophotographic records indicated that the flowers are pollinated only nototribically by birds and insects. Of 83 corbicular pollen loads from 193 B. edwardsii worker pollinators, 55% contained P. densiflora pollen, and 60% contained pollen of Dodecatheon hendersonii, suggesting that these two plants share pollinators by synchronously supplying complementary resources in the same plant community. The earlier blooming Arctostaphylos did not effectively deflect Bombus pollinators from P. densiflora, but observations on a community including synchronously blooming Arctostaphylos and P.d. aurantiaca, a subspecies with variably colored flowers, indicated that Arctostaphylos preferentially attracted Bombus pollinators with hummingbirds exclusively pollinating P.d. aurantiaca. Pedicularis densiflora is considered a species in transition between two pollination syndromes, influenced by the biotic and physical circumstances of the environment.
10.2307/2482046|1. Candida albicans Y-475 required, for maximum growth, the addition of 0.005 g./ml. of biotin, 0.1 g./ml. of thiamin, and 20.0  g./ml of methionine to a chemically defined medium. Glucose at a concentration of 20.0 g./l. was sufficient for the maximum growth of this organism. 2. Mycoderma vini Y-939 required the addition of biotin at a concentration of 0.005 g./ml. and cystine at a concentration of 0.4 mg./ml. to a chemically defined medium for maximum growth. Fifty grams per liter of glucose were required for the best growth of this organism.
10.2307/2484919|A study of the rare, endemic Pedicularis furbishiae S. Wats. in the St. John River Valley of northern Maine indicated a preference of the plant for calcareous, well-drained sandy loam of transient river terrace habitats in close, consistent association with Alnus crispa but no root parasitism with any host plants. It was found to be self-incompatible and obligately pollinated by workers of Bombus vagans, which were coadapted to the pollination mechanism morphologically and behaviorally. Pedicularis furbishiae was observed to reproduce by seed only and in sufficient numbers to maintain and possibly increase the size of the presently known total population of approximately 600 plants. Pollination interrelationships with Epilobium angustifolium, Trifolium pratense, Vicia cracca, and other Bombus-pollinated members of the Pedicularis plant community were also examined. Bumblebees were only 25% constant in their foraging for pollen. Techniques employed included chemical and physical soil analyses, atmospheric measurements, insect exclosure and artificial pollination, nectar analysis by refractometry, reflectance spectrophotometry of corolla color, microscopic analysis of corbicular pollen loads, measurement of corresponding insect and floral dimensions, cinematographic analysis and recording of pollinator behavior, and quadrat analysis of Pedicularis distribution
10.2307/2484463|There are two main natural groups of tuberous Aconitum within the United States (excluding Alaska). Aconitum columbianum ("western" Aconitum) is a polymorphic complex of populations occurring primarily in the western U.S. which exhibits extreme interpopulation variation in floral morphology and in modes of adaptation for vegetative reproduction. Aconitum uncinatum ("eastern" Aconitum) is a more homogeneous group of populations occurring primarily in the mountains of the eastern U.S. The most distinctive difference between these aconites is in tuber morphology. Aconitum columbianum has contiguous parent and daughter tubers whereas A. uncinatum has tubers separated by elongate connectives. These two species differ also in leaf morphology and taste of the tubers. Aconitum populations of Iowa and Wisconsin were previously treated as A. noveboracense or as a subspecies of A. uncinatum, but they are morphologically similar in tuber morphology and in other respects to non-bulbiferous races of western Aconitum with small flowers and shallow nectaries, indicating that they are actually disjunct populations of A. columbianum. The affinities of Aconitum of Ohio and New York and the status of the names A. noveboracense and A. uncinatum subsp, noveboracense cannot be resolved until populations are relocated in these states.
10.2307/2484266|-carotene, -carotene-5,6-epxoide, lutein, and lutein-5,6-epoxide were identified as the major flower petal carotenoids in Liriodendron and Magnolia species and hybrids.
10.2307/2996212|A 0 48 ha permanent plot located in a mesic Pinus strobus dominated forest was remapped after 26 years Pinus remained the dominant species in basal area and had the lowest mortality rate of any major tree species The understory was dominated by Acer saccharum, Tilia americana, and Ostrya virginiana, all of which had high mortality rates Establishment of numerous new stems resulted in a net gain in Ostrya and Tilia density whereas Acer declined substantially Populations of the shade intolerant Populus tremuloides, P grandidentata, and Betula papyrifera, which appear to have become established following mild surface fires in the late 1800's, all had high mortality The short-term prognosis is a stable Pinus strobus canopy, loss of Populus and Betula, and a steady emichment of the understory with Ostrya and Tilia Acer should remain important but continue to decline in relative density The long-term outlook is uncertain owing to the increasing probability of catastrophic breakup of the pine canopy
10.2307/2482614|Sugars that supported the best growth of Erysiphe cichoracearum on epidermal strippings from lettuce leaves were D)-fructose, D-glucose, D-mannose, and sucrose. L-sorbose was inhibitory. The cyclic hexahydric alcohol, i-inositol, was stimulatory whereas the straight-chain hexahydric alcohols, D-mannitol and D-sorbitol, were inhibitory. Mildew growth was completely inhibited when the initial molar ratio of D-mannitol to D-glucose was about 2:1 but inhibition was reversed when the ratio of these substances was reversed. The results suggest that D-mannitol, D-sorbitol, and L-sorbose support poor mildew growth because they inhibit some metabolic step in the host and/or pathogen rather than act solely as poorly utilized substrates.
10.2307/2996348|A field examination of Ilex opaca (American Holly) leaf types, characterized by differing leaf size and spine number was conducted in various locations in the eastern United States to examine the possible adaptive function of the rigid spines found on these leaves. If spines function as aids to convective cooling, one might expect greater numbers on sun leaves. It was found, however, that sun leaves had fewer spines than shade leaves and were smaller. More spines were found in southern areas (Nags Head, N.C., Accomac, Va.) than northern areas (Sandy Hook, N.J., Cape Cod, Mass.). Rates of herbivory were higher in southern locations. Herbivores preferred leaves with fewer spines. These results support the hypothesis that the major function of spines is deterrence of herbivory, rather than assisting in convective cooling.
10.2307/2483368|A new cytological effect was induced in Allium sativum meristematic cells using digitonin as a mitotic agent. Digitonin, a saponin with steroid structure, dissociates the formation and function of the spindle from the phragmoplast, suppressing the former organelle, whereas a vigorous functioning phragmoplast is formed in the dividing cells. The restituting nucleus usually surrounds this hyaline-like phragmoplast substance partially or completely. Thus, hollowed out or indented nuclei are formed which always remain associated with the hyaline substance. Subsequently, cell wall material appears in the hyaline substance. It usually develops into a richly branched system and some of the branches join to the original cell wall. However, in some cases it may gather on the indented surface of the nucleus as an amorphous body. In 46 cases, cells were found with a functional spindle. In the same cells, a second, hyaline-like phragmoplast system was detected, usually associated with one of the groups of chromatids. In this substance, again, cell wall material was found. The relationship between spindle and phragmoplast, and the problem of the nuclear-phragmoplast association is discussed.
10.2307/2483990|The transition to 2-D growth was delayed by cycloheximide; the lag period was extended and the rate of transition reduced. Increasing inhibitor concentrations also diminished the mitotic rates for 1-D and 2-D gametophytes. All three rates were inhibited to a comparable extent. The mean cell number was not affected by the inhibitor. It was therefore concluded that the effect on 2-D development was due to an inhibition of cell division and not to a specific inhibition of the transition to 2-D growth.
10.2307/2483009|Suspected hybrids of Agropyron trachycaulum (Link) Malte and Agropyron scribneri Vasey were found at several alpine sites on the Wasatch Plateau near Ephraim, Utah. Cytological, morphological, and fertility observations confirmed the suggestion that these plants were natural interspecific hybrids of A. trachycaulum and A. scribneri. Meiotic chromosome behavior of the putative parent species was consistent with the hypothesis that these species are strict allotetraploids, 2n-28. Chormosome pairing in the hybrids indicated a close relationship between A. trachycaulum and A. scribneri genomes, whose major differences consist of structural rearrangements of the component chromosomes. A. trachycaulum and A. scribneri were represented by genome formulae of AABB and A
10.2307/2996662|American beech (Fagus grandifolia, Ehrh.) is the most shade tolerant of the canopy dominant tree species in the northern hardwood forest at Hubbard Brook, New Hampshire. Nevertheless, subcanopy beech trees responded significantly to small canopy gaps (28-103 m
10.2307/2996321|Openings in the pitch pine (Pinus rigida Mill.) forests of southernNew Jersey may persist for decades. In rive such openings, ranging in size from 22 to 223 m
10.2307/2484608|Several measures of plant community structure and function were studied in the four main stages of old-field succession in Oklahoma. The absolute amount of live plant material was high in the early successional stage, diminished in the second stage, and reached a maximum in the terminal stage. Net annual production, as estimated by the summation of species' peaks, and seasonal productivity rates demonstrated a similar pattern. The live component of the above-ground vegetation constituted 51% of the total standing crop in the early stages but amounted to 26% in the last stage with a consequent increase in the proportion of litter. Aerial cover, species richness, and concentration of dominance tended to increase in this sere, while species diversity and equitability tended to decrease.
10.2307/2996162|Common milkweed occurs in the Piedmont of north-central Georgia. This population is disjunct over 150 km from the nearest known sites in North Carolina and Tennessee. Certain weedy characteristics, such as self-compatibility, numerous seeds, and gemmiferous roots, may enable A syriaca L. to extend its range.
10.2307/2997011|Oak-dominated forests in the mid-Appalachians of the eastern United States and the Kumaun Himalaya of northern India are described and compared. Four major community types are recognized in each region; these are related to the environmental complex-gradients associated with differences in elevation and topographic position. In general, both species richness and species diversity of the tree stratum (stems  10 cm DBH) are appreciably higher for oak forests in the mid-Appalachians, whereas basal area and density tend to be much higher for oak forests in the Kumaun Himalaya. In both regions, oak-dominated forests have been subject to considerable disturbance, with human disturbance representing the single most important factor in northern India and introduced biotic agents the most important factors in the eastern United States.
10.2307/2996742|Morphological features of the hay-scented fern Dennstaedtia punctilobula. (Michx.) Moore from discrete patches of average area 23.0  8.7 m
10.2307/2996540|Studies on the seed germination ecophysiology of Cimicifuga racemosa (L.) Nutt and Hepatica acutiloba DC revealed that both species have epicotyl dormancy Radicles of seeds sown on soil in a nonheated greenhouse emerged in autumn, but emergence of cotyledons was delayed until late winter and early spring Radicles of H acutiloba seeds, incubated sequentially at simulated monthly temperature regimes, emerged in November and early December, but cotyledons did not emerge until February and March After 165 days, radicles had emerged from 79% of the H acutiloba seeds incubated at 20/10 C, whereas cotyledons had not emerged after 245 days Cotyledons did not emerge from seeds (with radicles emerged) of either species kept over winter in a heated greenhouse Thus, chilling is required to break epicotyl dormancy These two species can be added to the list of more than 20 species of herbaceous perennials of the Eastern Deciduous Forest Biome whose seeds exhibit deep morpho-physiological dormancy
10.2307/2483523|Three rare barley diseases were discovered for the first time in Israel:-downy mildew caused by Sclerophthora rayssiae sp. nov., leaf smut incited by Entyloma Korshinskyi Lavrov, and checkerboard spot and leaf flecking associated with Ovularia hordei (Cav.) Sprague. The downy mildew has reached the proportions of a serious disease during the winter growing season of 1962.
10.2307/2996544|Seasonal changes in numbers and weights were determined for three categories of shoots aboveground and root and rhizome weights belowground. Total shoot numbers were over 1000/m
10.2307/2996842|Analysis of the mass and morphology of opaline phytoliths extracted from soils was used to test the hypothesis that the 1-ha calcareous clay lens of Buffalo Beats had a vegetative history different from that of the surrounding acid shale substrate. The mass of opal from the 0- to 10-cm depth under prairie and transitional vegetation on the lens was approximately three times greater than from the same depth under the surrounding forest. Phytoliths diagnostic of grasses were seldom encountered in any soils. Early descriptions of forb-dominated communities on calcareous lenses in other parts of the region and the present high coverage by forbs on Buffalo Beats along with high phytolith concentrations in the foliage of some of these forb species, suggest the possibility that forbs rather than grasses may have dominated this opening over some portion of the post-glacial period.
10.2307/2483058|1. Choanephora persicaria Eddy has been rediscovered and studied from the type material as well as from a number of strains isolated from soil, sewage, peaches, and mulberries. 2. The zygosporic stage has now been found and its development proves conclusively that this fungus represents a new genus, Gilbertella. This genus is heterothallic, possessing a Mucor-like sexual stage and a Choanephora-like asexual stage. From a study of the life cycle it is concluded that Gilbertella is a form intermediate between the Mucoraceae and Choanephoraceae. 3. When + and - strains are brought together, they can produce zygospores in liquid media and form beta-carotene. 4. Gilbertella can cause a brown, firm type of rot in peaches with abundant sporulation over the surface of the fruit.
10.2307/2996758|Twenty Penstemon eatonii seed collections from a range of habitats were subjected to laboratory chill treatments of 0 to 24 weeks. Germination response during and after chill was correlated with collection site climate. Seeds from sites with colder winters had longer chill requirements and were slower to germinate in continuous chill than seeds from sites with warmer winters. Seeds from variable-winter sites tended to have a large fraction not responsive to chill. Such site-specific responses may function to time germination appropriately and also to provide for between-year seed carry-over in this short-lived perennial species. Field retrieval studies supported these conclusions.
10.2307/2997106|Interspecific competition between Bouteloua curtipendula (Michx.) Torr. (sideoats grama) and Prosopis glandulosa var. glandulosa Torr. (honey mesquite) seedlings was examined in an additive and a replacement experiment, at two resource levels. Bouteloua curtipendula significantly reduced P. glandulosa seedling growth, at every grass density tested. In addition, the growth of B. curtipendula was consistently favored over P. glandulosa, regardless of the proportion of the two species or the soil resource level. Higher nutrient levels increased the total biomass and increased the percent B. curtipendula biomass per pot. Prosopis glandulosa total biomass was highest when grown without B. curtipendula and increased with added nutrients but only in monoculture. Results suggest that intraspecific, rather than interspecific competition, has a greater effect on B. curtipendula growth. However, interspecific competition, rather than intraspecific competition, has a greater effect on P. glandulosa growth. In addition, P. glandulosa seedling establishment and growth in productive B. curtipendula grasslands would probably be severely limited, especially at high levels of soil resources.
10.2307/2482017|1. Vitamin B
10.2307/2482952|1. The dome-shaped shoot apex of Dianthus caryophyllus L. consists of a two-layered tunica and a corpus. The outer portion of the corpus shows considerable stratification especially when the apex is at minimum volume. No other zonation is apparent. 2. During a plastochrone the apex passes from a maximum, gradually to a minimum and back to a maximum volume. 3. Procambium can be traced to the base of a putative leaf primordium. 4. Apical growth in the leaf ceases by the time a height of 2 mm. is reached. 5. Submarginal activity begins when the leaf is approximately 90  high. Plate meristem activity begins when the leaf is about 190  high and during the basal maturation of the tissues is confined to the leaf base much as the basal meristem of grass leaves. 6. Stomatal development is described. There are no accessory cells. 7. Initial phloem differentiation is acropetal; differentiation of the first xylem elements in a midtrace is bidirectional from near the base of the third leaf. Subsequent maturation of vascular elements is bidirectional or basipetal. Two phloem strands differentiate toward a given leaf. These outline the leaf-branch gap of the leaf two plastochrons below before converging into a single strand which enters the leaf. 8. Axillary buds are arranged in a 1/4 cladotaxis, their initiation and development is described. An hypothesis is suggested which may help in accounting for their arrangement.
10.2307/2482563|Three new chestnut hybrids are described which are to serve as the ortets of their respective clones: (1) Toumey Chestnut, a tall, erect tree, rapid-growing but not especially prolific; leaves with prominent shoulder below each tooth, pubescence both stellate and simple; bur slightly flattened, nut plump, squarish, flavor indifferent; (2) Hamden Chestnut, a handsome, ornamental, spreading, late-flowering tree with large, thickish, glossy leaves, and a moderate supply of large nuts; (3) Dwarf Japanese-American Chest-nut, a dwarf, male-sterile tree suitable for a small area, a prolific bearer, with leaves showing lepidote glands beneath, nuts fairly sweet. These trees are all blight-resistant, and hardy in zone V of Rehder.
10.2307/2483717|The seven species described in the genus Thiloa are reduced to three. These three species are distinct on morphological, anatomical and distributional criteria, and any difficulties in identification are apparently due to poor or incomplete material and the minute nature of the most diagnostic characters, since no real taxonomic problems have been found. The study was based on the material in 25 major herbaria, including the type specimens of all taxa.
10.2307/2996229|Field observations and experiments in central Florida determined phenology, pollination, breeding system, and crossability of Asimina obovata (Willd.) Nash and A. pygmaea (Bartr.) Dunal. Both species are strongly protogynous and similar in floral morphology, but differ in color and scent. Their flowering periods overlap, but flowering in A. obovata begins at least two weeks before that of A. pygmaea. Pollinators include large beetles, Trichotinus rufobrunneus, T. lunulatus and Euphoria sepulchralis (Scarabaeidae), which are common to both plant species, and Typocerus zebra (Cerambycidae), which is limited to A. obovata. The beetles prefer flowers in the male phase and consume pollen and corrugated tissue of the inner petals. This tissue is high in carbohydrates with lesser amounts of lipids and proteins. Bagged flowers of A. obovata occasionally self-pollinate (4% in 1981) but no selfing occurred in A. pygmaea. In open-pollinated flowers of A. obovata, 16% set fruits in 1981 and 5.5% in 1982, while 32% set fruits in hand-pollinated flowers. Open-pollinated flowers of A. pygmaea yielded fruit-set of 8% in 1981, 8.2% in 1982, and 60% when hand-pollinated. Reciprocal crosses between the two taxa produced fruits in 16% of flowers when A. obovata was the seed parent and 30% when it was the pollen parent.
10.2307/2482301|1. Seeds of Pisum sativum were treated with 10, 50, 100, 300, 500, and 1000 ppm solutions of maleic hydrazide and observations were made to determine the effects of MH on cell division and on total growth. 2. Inhibition of growth was apparent in treatments of and above 100 ppm. MH, and inhibition of cell division was noted in the 50 ppm. group as well as in the higher concentrations. 3. Based on the percentage mitosis in the treated plants, there was a greater percentage of mitosis in the shoot tips than the root tips. 4 Certain effects of the higher concentrations of MH on cellular structure are discussed.
10.2307/2484895|Ordination and classification techniques were used to determine the pattern of species, stands, and community-types in the north central bottomland forests of Oklahoma. A polar-reciprocal averaging ordination (PORA) indicated an east to west stand compositional gradient existed in this region. Also along this gradient, species diversity and evenness decreased from east to west. Cluster analysis and discriminant functions analysis were used to classify the stands into 5 community-types. A plot of these community-types on the PO-RA ordination indicated that the community-types also showed an east to west gradient. It was hypothesized that this compositional gradient results from the elimination of floodplain species from western counties due to a decrease in available soil moisture from precipitation.
10.2307/2996194|Fruit production and seed germination were studied in one population of Phytolacca americana L. (pokeweed) in the Hutcheson Memorial Forest, New Jersey. Number of fruits per raceme, fruit weight, seed weight, and number of seeds per fruit showed little variation in this population (CV's range: 8-18.8%). Fruit set was 100% for marked racemes, suggesting a high degree of selfing. The number of racemes per individual stem varied from zero on plants less than 40 cm tall to 13 on 2 m tall plants. Plants bearing one raceme or none (<1 m tall) constituted 60% of the population. Germination of unstratified seeds was high (average of 80%), but varied greatly both within (0-100%) as well as between (25-100%) plants.
10.2307/2996623|Leaf leachate of Mangifera indica, Shorea robusta and Tectona grandis promoted the sprouting of rhizomes and young plant growth of Costus speciosus while that of Eucalyptus globulus showed distinct inhibition. Promotive treatments decreased the sprouting time also. The maximum growth promotion was noted with four times diluted leachate of M. indica but inhibition was greatest with undiluted leachate of E. globulus. The diosgenin concentration in rhizomes of Costus speciosus was increased by the leaf leachate of Mangifera indica, with no change due to leaf leachates of Shorea robusta and Tectona grandis. The leaf leachate of Eucalyptus globulus decreased the concentration of diosgenin.
10.2307/2483272|The leaf primordia of R. flabellaris have the genetic competence to develop in either an expanded or a dissected form, depending upon the environment. In both forms, branching of the leaf primordium early in the second plastochron produces the three major segments of the tripartite blade. Subsidiary lobes arise in acropetal sequence on these segments with the initiation of cell division at alternate sites along each segment and its inhibition in the putative sinus regions. Production of lobes at a greater rate in the submerged shoot, continued division in these elevating lobes, and inhibition along their margins accounts for the characteristic dissected form. Form is regulated primarily through control of cell division in the leaf primordium, and the environmental influence is apparently exerted here. That the environmental stimulus is effective during development of the leaf is apparent in the production of intermediate leaf forms from primordia present in the bud when shoots are transferred to an opposite environment. A comparison of shoot apices of terrestrial and submerged plants reveals no difference in size or organization during the development of diverse leaf forms. In addition to the terrestrial or submerged environments, temperature and photoperiod affect leaf form. Limited experiments failed to reveal translocation of a form determining factor from older leaves. It is our interpretation that the shape of the leaf in this heterophyllic aquatic may be affected by any of several environmental stimuli acting directly upon the distribution and frequency of cell division in the primordium so that the inherent zones of growth initiated on the primorduim are modified in their development. The seasonal variation in leaf form in R. flabellaris may be explained in terms of interplay of these environmental factors.
10.2307/2996119|Morphological and chemical (phenolic) variables were used in principal components and cluster analyses to determine patterns of variation among and within 22 wide-ranging populations of dandelions. Intrapopulational morphological variation was as great as or greater than interpopulational variation. Morphological variables were poorly correlated, and plants failed to cluster into the two described species, Taraxacum officinale and T. laevigatum. Phenolic distinctions existed among populations but not between species-types, and chemical variables did not correlate with morphological variables. The data, therefore, suggest that morphological variation is largely due to phenotypic plasticity. This conclusion was supported by the observation of a strong relationship between microhabitat and morphological phenotype, with characteristics of T. laevigatum being expressed under conditions of environmental stress. The pattern of phenolic variability reflects the existence of chemical biotypes.
10.2307/2484155|Hydroxyproline-containing proteins appear to be ubiquitous constituents of photosynthetic land plants and their presumed algal ancestors. Different "species" of hydroxyproline-proteins, distinguishable by their composition and/or location within the cells and tissues, probably function differently. At least one of these species, which becomes intimately associated with cell walls, evidently has a morphoregulatory function. The results of a series of experiments conducted with representatives of several families of leafy liverworts, coupled with information gleaned from the literature dealing with hydroxyproline-protein function in other plants, has led to a new hypothesis concerning the morphoregulatory role of cell wall-associated hydroxyproline-proteins: These proteins may regulate morphogenesis by suppressing the further development (enlargement and/or division) of highly localized populations of cells. The hypothesis attempts to explain experimentally-induced differences in the developmental behavior of cells correlated with differences in patterns of organogenesis and/or differences in hydroxyproline and protein compositions of cell walls. This hypothesis, should it prove to be correct, provides a simple mechanism for explaining and understanding a great many differences in plant form.
10.2307/2996940|Self-fertility was examined in a Canada yew (Taxus canadensis) population in southeastern Minnesota. Bagged yew branches and unbagged control branches showed no significant differences in seed production, proportion of pollinated seeds that matured, or seed masses. Greater than 99% of male strobili were located on current growth, but a significant proportion of female strobili (>33%) were located on growth two years or older. There was no consistent trend in location of these strobilus types on higher or lower branches. Results from other studies examining consequences of monoecy in Canada yew support the conclusions of this study that Canada yew is self-fertile and that self-pollination enhances seed production when pollen is limiting.
10.2307/2996046|Five species of fungi belonging to various classes were surveyed for their response to the calcium ionophore A23187. Hyphae were treated with ionophore from 10-45 min, with treatment time varying depending upon the sensitivity of the species. After treatment, hyphae of all species branched more than untreated controls. Of particular interest was the reaction of uredospores of Puccinia graminis f. sp. tritici. Under the experimental conditions reported here, the untreated germinating uredospores of strain TNMK produced a cylindrical germ tube that was not observed to branch. Ionophore treatment overcame this pattern, initiating apical branching. Calcium is implicated as a messenger in the control of morphological patterns in fungi.
10.2307/2483167|1. Seedlings of soybean, Glycine max (L.) Merrill were used for these experiments. Certain morphological abnormalities were caused by application of a very high concentration of 2, 4, 5-T. After treatment, the seedlings showed: enlargement of the cotyledons; retardation in elongation and increase in diameter of the hypocotyl and primary root. 2. Histologically, the earliest response was increasing cell division in the hypocotyl region in the pericycle and pith. Later, the proliferation frequently extended from pith to the inner cortical parenchyma. The pith cells of the hypocotyl region became very actively meristematic. In the root, the cells of the pericycle, endodermis, and inner cortex showed divisions. Pericycle cells were especially active, producing a meristematic zone. 3. Some of the mitochondria appeared swollen and the inner membranes pulled apart. The deformation of mitochondria had taken place within 3 days after treatment.
10.2307/2481913|The cells of the boundary tissue between cortex and stele, between the bundle and surrounding parenchyma, have several anatomical forms. The typical endodermis may have Casparian strips, U-shaped unilateral walls, suberized walls or a combination of these. In some parts of the plant, however, particularly in the aerial stems and leaves, the cells in the parenchymalvascular boundary do not have the accepted anatomical characteristics associated with the endodermis. These cells of the vascular or bundle sheath, lacking endodermal characteristics, have been generally recognized as the "border parenchyma", and as the "mestome sheath". It was found that all of these cell types contain substances which give histochemical reactions like those obtained in the endodermis, and that these cells may develop, or be induced to develop, like the typical endodermis. All of the cell types in the parenchymal-vascular boundary of root, stem or leaf react in a characteristically similar way with fat stains, polychrome and basic dyes, aldehyde indicators, and oxidation-reduction indicators. The border parenchyma cell in leaves was found to differentiate and/or dedifferentiate as a typical endodermis under conditions of etiolation. A sequence of change was observed in border parenchyma cells, from the normal to the etiolated condition, as follows: starch hydrolysis, conversion of neutral fats in the plasma to free fatty acids, a change from a condition of reduction to one of oxidation, a gradual deposition of aldehydes and fats in the cell wall and concomitantly the disappearance of fats from the plasma. Glucosidase was found to be localized in the typical endodermis and also in the undifferentiated border parenchyma of the same plants. The parenchymal-vascular sheath in the moss gametophyte stem gave the reactions for an endodermis.
10.2307/2996729|The vegetative body of Ombrophytum subterraneum is an irregularly spherical structure, called a tuber, consisting of two portions: one composed of host cells, the other of O. subterraneum cells. All O. subterraneum nuclei are much larger than those of the host, and the vessels have distinctive secondary wall ingrowths, thus each tuber cell can be identified as belonging to either host or parasite. Infection by O. subterraneum causes host root cells to proliferate outward, forming a structure that initially resembles a lateral root, having a central mass of xylem surrounded by phloem, but differing from the host's normal root tissues in having narrow vessels and few or no fibers. The O. subterraneum portion of the tuber consists of a mass (up to 933 grams fr. wt.) of starch-filled parenchyma penetrated by vascular bundles containing both xylem and phloem. All cells in the O. subterraneum portion of the tuber are O. subterraneum cells-host cells were not mixed with parasite cells and there are no chimeral meristems as reported for Balanophora. The interface between host and parasite is sinuous but generally smooth, not a mixture of host and parasite cells. The tuber has no apical meristem; no leaves or axillary buds; no eustele; no epidermis. It produces long (up to 20 cm), slender (4 mm diam) runners that have an apical meristem with no root cap; no leaf primordia; a protoderm and epidermis but no stomata, no trichomes and no root hairs. In some places the runners' stele is rootlike (a protostele), in other places it is stemlike (with pith and collateral bundles).
10.2307/2484104|Boxelder, a wide ranging tree species, has been primarily used for shelterbelt plantings. Now, because of its excellent fiberboard properties, early fast growth, sprouting ability, and broad adaptability, it should be considered as a potential commercial wood fiber source. Boxelder has short average fibers and vessel members (646 m and 331 m, respectively). Other fibers commonly used for fiberboard range in length from 1040 m (Populus tremuloides) to 5400 m (Pinus taeda) and vessel member lengths from 490 m (Quercus rubra) to 670 m (Populus grandidentata). Although, compared to these species, its fibers appear short, boxelder is still considered of commercial use, because its wood and pulp have a relatively high pH that is conducive to an enhancement of resin curing and fiber bonding.
10.2307/2481959|1. Gross aspects of the floral development in both irradiated and non-irradiated plants of Tradescantia paludosa are described 2. The normal inflorescence is an umbellate cyme and the individual flowers are pentacyclic in a plan of three following the description of Anderson and Woodson (1935) 3. Variability in flowering and abnormal development of flower parts was noted in about 8 per cent of the inflorescences on non-irradiated plants, particularly in those making poor vegetative growth. 4. Plants exposed to chronic gamma irradiation from cobalt-
10.2307/2560356|The importance of Barbarea vulgaris R B1, Setaria viridis (L) Beauv. (+ S faberii Herrm.) and Ambrosia artemisiifolia L., the most abundant species in fields the first year after abandonment in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, is strongly influenced by the time of year bare soil is present in relation to the time that seeds of these species are capable of germinating. Certain agricultural practices, including the use of herbicides, tend to segregate these species into different fields. Aster pilosus Willd. is the distinct dominant in second-year fields and continues in some importance for three or four years. As A. pilosus decreases in abundance, there is a great increase of Lonicera japonica Thunb., Rubus spp, Rhus typhina L., Prunus serotina Ehrh. and Solidago nemoralis Ait. A. pilosus is largely eliminated in about four years. Abandoned fields and pastures are usually occupied by a closed canopy of hardwood species in less than 20 years after abandonment.
10.2307/2483112|1. Two different types of extra-ovular development of eggs and embryos in grasses are reported in two species of South African grasses. 2. In one pistil of Digitaria valida the part of the embryo sac containing the egg apparatus had grown nearly through the ovary wall (fig. 1). 3. In a number of pistils of Fingerhuthia africana the embryo sac had grown out of the ovule into the ovarian locule where a cavity was formed containing most of the embryo sac (fig. 6). Further development progressed at least as far as the early endosperm and proembryo stage (fig. 6). 4. In grasses, at least, there seems to be nothing to prevent such extra-ovular development from leading to mature and nearly normal grains.
10.2307/2996040|Most populations of the Western Australian cycad Macrozamia riedlei that were sampled for individuals with cones were characterized by an excess of male plants (66%-79%). Less than 32% of the apparently mature plants produced cones in most populations examined. It is suggested that the deficiency of females in cone is a consequence of the greater energetic effort required to produce female cones as compared to male cones. As a result of these differences in energetic costs, sexually mature female plants probably produce cones less frequently than do male plants. The high energetic costs of cone production may not only influence the sex ratio, but they may also account for the low frequency of reproductive individuals of either sex. The depletion of starch reserves associated with cone production requires several years for restoration, during which time cones are not produced. Age structure may also affect the incidence of non-coning individuals, but in most populations sampled most individuals were judged to be mature, and immature individuals were omitted from sampling. The role of fire in the reproductive ecology of M. riedlei has been considered by some authors to stimulate cone production, but there is evidence that under certain circumstances cone production is inhibited by fire.
10.2307/2997105|The objectives of the research were to examine some of the factors limiting fruit and seed production in a population of Cassia nictitans at the northern limit of the species' distribution. Experiments conducted in a greenhouse showed that plants were self-compatible and self-pollinating. About half of the unmanipulated flowers produced mature fruits, and self- and hand cross-pollinations resulted in similar levels of fruit production. However, fruits from hand pollinations contained more seeds than those from unmanipulated flowers. In the field, 37% of the initiated fruits aborted; these were primarily those initiated late in the flowering period. Field experiments showed that when competition among fruits for maternal resources was reduced by removing early-developing fruits, late-initiated fruits, which normally aborted, matured. Random removal of developing fruits resulted in increased seed production per fruit, indicating that seed abortion, like fruit abortion, is a consequence of competition among developing reproductive sinks. Predispersal seed predation was absent in the population. Thus, seed production in this population appears to be limited primarily by resources.
10.2307/2482500|1. Nectar secretion by snapdragon buds floated upon a sugar medium was inhibited by the presence in the medium of substances of known antimetabolic activity. Other agents, though some had definite effects upon bud development, did not affect nectar secretion. 2. Three compounds, pyruvic acid, ethyl carbamate, and sodium azide, were found to inhibit sugar concentration of the nectar with a correspondence to their concentration in the medium. 3. These data support the thesis that nectar secretion in isolated flowers is a function of the active metabolism of the nectary.
10.2307/2484692|A survey of elm leaf flavonoids indicates that the major compounds are glycosides of quercetin. Quercetin 3, 7-diglucoside is found only in U. laevis, and the presence of this substance is sufficient to distinguish the European white elm from the morphologically similar American elm (U. americana). The distribution of other compounds loosely follows the accepted taxonomic classification in the genus. Verification of artificial and natural interspecific hybrids, in many combinations, can be achieved by flavonoid analysis.
10.2307/2483313|Six species of resupinate hydnaceous Hymenomycetes previously unreported from western North America are treated. Caldesiella calcicola, Odontia romellii, and Hyphodontia abieticola are recorded from North America for the first time, and H. floccosa, O. pruni, and Radulum pini-canadensis are new records from the West. Complete descriptions and data on distribution and substratum relationships are given. Odontia subabrupta Bourd & Galz. is placed in synonymy with R. pini-canadensis.
10.2307/2483569|Thirteen distinct aecial states of Cronartium (Uredinales) are recognized on morphological grounds and their distinguishing characteristics are detailed. Two other fungi morphologically indistinguishable from Peridermium cerebrem are recognized as species on the basis of host symptoms (P. fusiforme) and life cycle (P. harknessii). P. himalayense and P. insulare are similar to one another, and both are included in the P. pint complex. P. mnexicanum, hitherto a synonym of P. cerebrum or recognized as separate, is not even racially distinct from P. conigenum. P. indicum, usually lumped with P. strobi, is distinct. P. cerebroides is at most a race of P. harknessii or of P. cerebrum; it is not reliably recognized by the form of its galls. The 15 recognized species fall into four morphological groups, one of them having only a single species. Scrophulariaceae provide telial (Cronartium) hosts for some members of all three large groups, whereas other telial host families are "shared" only within these groups. Another grouping of stem rust fungi is based on effects on pine hosts: two species mainly stimulate apical meristems; four mainly stimulate lateral meristems, and nine seldom or never stimulate host inertstems.
10.2307/2484847|Ants frequently visit the flowers of Asclepias curassavica, reducing the amount of nectar available to the butterflies that legitimately pollinate this species. Butterflies consequently visit more flowers but spend less time on each flower. Inflorescences from which ants were excluded experimentally showed higher levels of pollinia insertion. Nectar-robbing by ants therefore appears to be a maladaptive force resulting in reduced pollinator effectiveness for A. curassavica.
10.2307/2484759|Comparative disc electrophoresis of water-soluble seed proteins was employed in systematic studies of cultivated sorghum, Sorghum bicolor ssp. bicolor to (1) evaluate the potential usefulness of comparative electrophoresis of seed proteins for evolutionary and taxonomic investigations of sorghum, (2) assess affinities among the five races of S. bicolor ssp. bicolor by comparing their protein patterns, and (3) estimate the electrophoretic variability of seed proteins within selected races of cultivated sorghum. Twenty-six African cultivars of the five races, were studied. Each cultivar yielded highly reproducible electrophoretic patterns. Cultivars belonging to the same race produced identical or near-identical patterns. Consistent differences were detected among the races, enabling identification of the races by their electrophoretic patterns. The data suggest that the electrophoretic pattern of seed proteins of cultivated sorghum is a set of relatively constant, reliable taxonomic characters, representing the cultivar and possibly individual races.
10.2307/2483546|The prime questions of the study are what effect does opening size (or size of the area open to colonization) have in determining the species present in the openings and how does the existing undisturbed vegetation affect future stages in the succession? A cornfield left fallow following the last growing season was used for the study area. Openings ranging in size from .01m
10.2307/2482611|The growth rates and developmental morphology of immature barley embryos in vitro were studied by comparing them to embryos in vivo. In vitro embryos differed from those developing in vivo in that cultured embryos, (1) were larger at any given morphological stage (due to promoted cell enlargement and cell division), (2) were slower in the rate at which they passed through the various embryonic stages, (3) showed a number of morphological deviations from normal embryonic stages, and (4) did not attain the morphological development of stage 6 (fully differentiated mature embryo) in vivo.
10.2307/2996217|Modern pollen rain was studied at four different elevations on Slide Mountain, New York to (1) determine the relation between the pollen rain and the local vegetation, and (2) to increase the data base for modern pollen analogs used in comparing late Quaternary fossil pollen spectra Correlation between the modern pollen rain and the vegetation is variable, but some trends are noted Betula and Pinus were consistently overrepresented in the pollen rain, while Abies, Picea, and Acer were underrepresented Quercus and Fagus pollen compared well with the relative frequency of respective source trees at 1575 feet, but Quercus was overrepresented by its pollen at every other site; Fagus was only slightly overrepresented Despite the lack of precise matches between the local pollen rain and surrounding vegetation, the major components of the vegetation at each altitude are preserved in the pollen rain The local pollen spectra at the four different elevation sites on Slide Mountain compared favorably with fossil pollen spectra from subrecent sediments found at similar altitudes in the Berkshires of Massachusetts, the White Mountains of New Hampshire, and the Catskill Mountains of New York
10.2307/2483854|A new species of Cyrtolejeunea Evs, C. antillana, from Dominica is described. It differs from the type, C. holostipa, in the blunt lobular apex, and from C. inermis of Brazil in the larger, less collenchymatous cells; C. inermis and C. antillana are placed into a separate subgenus, Oryzolejeunea, perhaps allied to the monotypic Caribbean Amblyolejeunea Jov.-Ast. Acanthocoleus Schust., with A. fulvus sp. n., is described. It is allied to Lopholejeunea, from which it differs in the regular subfloral innovations; the convex but not convolute, feebly nitid leaves; the bidentate lobuli; the long-emergent, 5-keeled perianth; the edentate [female] bracts; and the clearly botryoidal oilbodies. Dactylolejeunea Schust., with only D. acanthifolia sp. n, is described. It differs from Drepanolejeunea in the underleaves with erect, nonsubulate lobes; the lack of ocelli; the lack of a differentiated, sharp, apical lobular tooth; the coarse, conspicuous cilia and laciniae of leaf and perianth keel margins. The affinities of Trachylejeunea (Spr.) Schiffn. are discussed and the close and unresolved relationships to Pycnolejeunea (Spr.) Schiffn. are discussed. A new species, T. monophthalma from Jamaica, is described that exhibits affinities to both genera. It differs from all Pycnolejeunea species in the tuberculate cells, but it has the large underleaves, rounded leaf lobes, and subfloral innovations of the acrogynous gynoecia of Pycnolejeunea. The genus Diplasiolejeunea (Spr.) Schiffn. is divided into three subgenera, Diplasiolejeunea (for ocellate taxa growing flatly appressed) and two non-ocellate subgenera, Physolejeunea Schust. (for a small, large-lobulate species of New Zealand, D. lyratifolia) and Austrolejeuneopsis Schust. (for a series of taxa which are larger, with smaller lobuli whose free margin is strongly involute). The type of this last subgenus, D. alata Jov.-Ast, is given a detailed treatment and illustrations. All new taxa are fully illustrated.
10.2307/2483545|Lamprothamnium succinctum var. australiensis n. var. is described and illustrated. The chromosome counts of n = 42 for this taxon and n = 28 for a L. macropogon growing with it were supplied by Arland T. Hotchkiss Lime-shells were discovered in the neotype specimen of L. succinctum and are described and illustrated for the first time.
10.2307/2484796|Achlya is a filamentous aquatic fungus in which the production of gametangia is initiated by two C-29 steroids which act to induce the formation of specialized branches on which the gametangia are differentiated. Antheridial branches are produced in response to antheridiol, and oogonial branches to hormone B Strains of Achlya vary in the amounts of these steroids that they secrete and in the concentrations to which they respond. Of sterile strains producing sex organs only when mated, those secreting considerable antheridiol but no hormone B and responding to hormone B but not to antheridiol, react as females with the production of oogonial branches. Those secreting little or no antheridiol but secreting hormone B only when stimulated by exogenous antheridiol and responding to antheridiol but not to hormone B, react as males with the production of antheridial branches when mated. Hermaphroditic strains producing numerous antheridia and oogonia may or may not secrete antheridiol and may secrete hormone B without stimulation by exogenous antheridiol. The strains tested were sensitive to both antheridiol and hormone B.
10.2307/2996971|Acer stigmas were said by Heslop-Harrison and Shivanna (Ann. Bot. 41: 1232-1258. 1977) to be dry and non-papillate, a statement supported by unillustrated observations on two unnamed species. We report here that the earlier literature, and our own observations on six species, show instead that Acer has a papillate stigma. Rudimentary pistils of staminate flowers, common in Acer, could result in erroneous observations of stigmas. Presence of papillate stigmas in Acer is consistent with the presence of papillate stigmas in closely related groups. Increase in papillae development allows increase in stigma surface area, thereby contributing to more efficient wind pollination, a mode which has evolved in a number of maple species.
10.2307/2483807|Disruption of any community is usually followed by the almost immediate appearance of earlier successional species. This has been related to the presence of buried viable seed. To test for the presence of viable seed, soil samples were collected at Harvard Forest at 16 sites, representative of secondary succession in Massachusetts. These ranged from a 1-yr abandoned field to an 80-yr white pine stand that supported an understory of young hardwoods. When soil samples were collected, a list was compiled of all ground cover species at each site. Fifty-five ground cover species were recorded at the 16 stations, and of these, 41 were restricted to open fields and young pine stands, and 14 to a mature 80-yr pine stand. There were no ground cover plants in any of the fully-stocked, 21 to 47-yr pine stands. Germination tests of soils from all sites produced quantities of seedlings. In these tests 65 species, averaging 20 species per station were recorded. The 3474 seedlings recovered represented an average of 220 per square foot of soil surface sampled, with a low of 116 and a high of 466. Many of the field species occurred in essentially all soils tested, and 40 of the 64 which appeared in field samples produced 88.5% of the total seedling crop. The field species thus prevailed and dominated all samples except those from the mature pine stand. With maturation and opening of the stands, late successional and climax species appeared. Both short-lived and long-lived seed were among the seedlings recovered. The latter group included Juncus tenuis, Panicum capillare, Rumex acetosella and Danthonia spicata. It is proposed that viable seed in the forest soils had not been carried into the stands where they then filtered down through the litter-humus layers, but that they remained viable during long burial in the soils. The universality of secondary succession is assured by long term storage of seed in soils.
10.2307/2484832|Stands of Pinus taeda established on old fields grow rapidly in eastern Maryland, but hardwoods soon invade and are already numerous and noticeable at 16 years from field and by 35 years they form a conspicuous second story. Data on changes in composition in one stand show the strong successional trend to hardwoods. Three light winter fires (when the stand was 16, 21, and 25 years old) so reduced the number of hardwoods that, 10 years after the third burn, there were fewer hardwoods  1.4 cm dbh than before burning; but even more fires or other alternative measures have to be used if pine stands are to be reproduced.
10.2307/2996776|Abiotic resources in a deciduous forest often are patchily distributed, with different microsites having different resource levels. If plant growth and reproduction depends on access to these resources, then plants may occupy only the richer microsites within a habitat. In order to determine if the presence of individual ramets of Viola blanda Willd. (Violaceae) are correlated with microsite resource levels, I measured soil chemistry (pH, total N, P, K, Ca, Mg) and canopy openness at 100 random points and the nearest 100 points with V. blanda along a 600 m transect in the Cumberland Plateau in eastern Kentucky. A quadratic discriminant function in combination with a cross-validation method found that resource levels correctly classified 77.5% of the violet points and 55.2% of the random points. Wilcoxon signed-rank tests indicated that phosphorus concentrations and tree canopy openness were significantly higher at the violet points than at the random points. However, the random points had higher magnesium levels. Several mechanisms may explain this pattern, including differences in pollinator activity as a result of light levels, myrmecochory, clonal growth, or higher growth rates on microsites with higher resource levels.
10.2307/2996184|The germination ecology of Collinsia verna Nutt., one of only a few native winter annuals that grows in rich deciduous woods in the eastern USA and adjacent Canada, was studied. Seeds are innately dormant at dispersal in late May and early June, but during summer they afterripen and become nondormant. During the afterripening period, seeds gained the ability to germinate in light and darkness at 15/6, 20/10, 25/15 and 30/15 C. Seeds first germinated at 15/6 C (in July) and then at progressively higher temperatures. Germination at 30/15 C was delayed until October, at which time less than 25% of the seeds germinated. After germination began at a particular temperature regime, the germination percentage at that temperature increased as the seeds afterripened further, and by October seeds germinated from 82 to 88% in light and darkness at 15/6 and 20/10 C. From July through September habitat temperatures are too high for germination, and thus seeds do not germinate until early autumn when temperatures become non-limiting. Seeds planted on soil in a non-temperature-controlled greenhouse in early June 1978 and 1981 began to germinate in late September and continued until early November. After the first autumn, no additional seeds germinated in either planting.
10.2307/2484903|Fifty-one years of phytoplankton data from the South District Water Intake of the Chicago Water Filtration Plant were analyzed to determine changes in the phytoplankton community related to the eutrophication of Lake Michigan. From 1930 to 1940, a net biomass (100 mg C/m
10.2307/2483706|Components of the bluegreen algal vegetation are described from a salt marsh at Ipswich, Massachusetts. Their distribution in the salt marsh in relation to various environmental influences is discussed. Continued field and laboratory studies are needed to understand better the plasticity of the organisms with respect to environment, and therefore more correctly interpret the systematics of this group of algae. Descriptions and marsh distribution of 29 species are presented.
10.2307/2484161|This study was undertaken to determine whether any nucellar vascular tissue might be found in Lindera Benzoin which would indicate a relationship between this angiosperm species of the Lauraceae and fossil gymnosperms. Variation in vascular tissue and in the number and arrangement of floral parts is found in the pistillate flower of Lindera Benzoin, but there is no evidence of any vascular tissue development in the nucellus. The ovary of Lindera is supplied by one dorsal and one placental bundle organized directly from axial vascular tissue. Six main traces from the stele supply perianth parts, then stamens, but anastomosis of strands diverged from the vascular bundles of adjacent perianth parts also may supply stamens. Glands are derived from stamens in both pistillate and staminate flowers. Details of vascular anatomy and of seed and fruit development are presented and compared to those reported for other genera of the Lauraceae.
10.2307/2484520|Thirty taxa of the perennial, herbaceous, caespitose Lupinus lepidus-L. caespitosus complex (Papilionaceae) of the Sierra Nevada, Cascade Mountains and a few entities of outlying distributions are chemosystematically compared. Seed alkaloids, separated by thin-layer chromatography, serve as the source material for these comparisons. R
10.2307/2997027|The spatial patterns of tree stems in 480 plots were examined on a series of ten experimental oldfields adjacent to an old growth forest over a 31-year period. Tree stem density decreased exponentially with distance from the forest edge early in succession. Later in succession the predictive power of the negative exponential model decreased, suggesting that processes such as animal seed dispersal within a field become important. Species palatable to herbivores were denser than unpalatable species close to the forest edge which implies that consumer pressure originates in the field rather than in the forest. Stems of all species were clumped on the scale of the 1 m
10.2307/2996178|Laboratory and field studies were undertaken to determine the comparative patterns of dry matter allocation to the rhizome systems of Ammophila and Elymus and the effects of those patterns on bud dispersal and the subsequent spatial distribution of ramets and shoot biomass. Greenhouse-grown plants of Ammophila were found to allocate more dry matter to the development of a vertical, rather than horizontal, rhizome system. In contrast, Elymus plants grown under the same conditions placed a much greater emphasis on an extensive horizontal rhizome system that dispersed buds away from the parental ramet. Buds of Ammophila more often produced vertical rhizomes and tillers when activated, thus leading to an intensive spatial arrangement of shoot dry matter. Low supplies of nitrogen during growth accentuated these differences in allocation to rhizome development and bud dispersal. Tagged Ammophila plants in the field at Point Reyes, California, produced a greater number of localized tillers from vertical rhizomes, and demonstrated higher survivorship than did tagged plants of Elymus. When bud-bearing rhizomes from these clones were cultured in a growth chamber, those of Ammophila maintained a much greater ability to form and establish new ramets. The significance of the distinctive spatial arrangements of ramets and biomass in stands of Ammophila and Elymus is discussed with respect to coastal community dynamics.
10.2307/2996648|Hibiscus militaris is reported from one site in Bronx County, New York. This more southerly species is easily distinguished from the more common Hibiscus palustris by the triangular-shaped leaves with divergent lobes and pubescent seeds.
10.2307/2484555|The distribution and co-distribution patterns of major tree species in four Oklahoma upland forests were investigated. Contingency tables, fitted Poisson distributions, Cole's Index, and correlation were used to analyze pattern. Random or aggregated patterns were found in all stands investigated and regular patterns were never found.
10.2307/2482972|1. All taxa discussed here belong to Argythamnia P. Browne subgenus Ditaxis (Vahl) Croizat. 2. One new species has been described; the staminate flower of Argythamnia argyraea Cory has been described; and, nine species names have been transferred from Ditaxis to Argythamnia.
10.2307/2996796|Radial growth in trees has often been used to measure the relationship between climate and tree growth. Variation in radial growth with respect to environmental variables may indicate how trees in diverse landscapes may respond to climate change. The purpose of this study is to determine whether radial growth is spatially heterogeneous throughout the forest-tundra ecotone of Rocky Mountain National Park and whether this spatial variability can be related to environmental variables. Increment cores were taken from 5-10 of the largest trees in 59 sampling locations distributed across the forest-tundra ecotone of Rocky Mountain National Park. Mean annual ring width for 1978-1987 was measured in the laboratory. Stepwise weighted least squares linear regression was used to relate mean annual growth to 25 environmental variables measured at each sampling location. Mean radial growth is higher at sampling locations with higher soil pH values and where there is small rock material but varies with zone and associated shrub species. When all statistically significant variables are considered, radial growth is slowest in the krummholz zone, intermediate in the patch forest zone, and fastest in the closed forest zone. Within each zone, the presence of Juniperus communis indicates slow radial growth, Vaccinium spp. indicate intermediate radial growth, and Salix spp. indicate rapid radial growth. These results differ from previous studies of vertical seedling leader growth in the FTE, which found higher rates of growth in the krummholz zone. Differing rates of radial and vertical growth may reflect different settings or different responses, though both may indicate tree "success."
10.2307/2996947|Common milkweed is rapidly expanding its range southward. It occurs abundantly in the southern Piedmont of North Carolina and has recently been collected from Cherokee County in the northern Piedmont of South Carolina. Asclepias syriaca has also been collected from four counties in the Piedmont, Ridge and Valley, and Cumberland Plateau regions of northern Georgia. Reasons for the rapid spread of this native plant are unclear, but it does possess strong colonizing potential due to its numerous comose seeds, gemmiferous roots, and limited self-compatibility. It is possible that wind dispersal of seeds is enhanced by drafting off of large, high-speed trucks along interstate highways.
10.2307/2484848|I have studied canopy gaps in a mature oak forest to determine whether gap size is an important variable controlling the mode of response of the understory vegetation. A severe gypsy moth defoliation produced single-tree and multiple-tree openings, and I censussed the vegetation in these openings and in matched control sites to see whether new plants became established, or whether existing plants reorganized their division of resources within the gap area. The data indicated that no "new establishment" of plants had occurred. Rather, the vegetation had reorganized itself, with understory species, principally Cornus florida, becoming the most important element in the lower stratum. The understory species evidently occurred in patches of high relative density, within which canopy-tree reproduction was apparently inhibited or excluded. Because most of the gypsy moth-caused gaps were smaller than these patches of understory growth, gap size did not appear to affect the mode of response of the vegetation. I suggest that gap dynamics can be understood, and perhaps predicted, by superposing the pattern of canopy openings on the patchwork of understory-species growth in the disturbed sand.
10.2307/2997142|1. A developmental study of the seed coat of the lima bean was undertaken in conjunction with other studies directed toward the determination of relative maturity of beans used for freezing. 2. The inner integument of the ovule is composed of two strata, an inner single layer of cells and an outer stratum which varies from one to four cells thick at places, according to the number of periclinal divisions which have occurred. Both strata of this integument disappear in centripetal order during seed coat ontogeny. 3. The outer integument is composed initially of five strata of cells. 4. The innermost two give rise to fifteen layers of cells which elongate and produce long arms in the form of "mycoidal parenchyma," becoming much compressed at seed ripeness. 5. The middle and next outer strata produce several layers of cells, of which all but the outermost become large, tangentially elongated parenchyma. The vascular bundles are embedded in this parenchyma. This group of cells also constitutes the bulk of integumentary tissue at the hilum. In the outermost of these layers, i.e. the subepidermal layer, are formed the characteristic column cells, separated by large lacunae. 6. The outer epidermis remains uniseriate, and its long narrow cells become the palisade layer. 7. Initial development of the palisade and its largest cells occur at the anterior micropylar rim, which is raised early by meristematic activity of the coaxial type. 8. At the hilum, development of the tracheid island and the double separation layer occurs as in other papilionate seeds. 9. A rim aril is formed from the adjoining thick-walled cells of the funiculus. 10. Correlated with optimum edible maturity of the seed are the following phenomena, disappearance of starch from the parenchyma cells of the outer integument; development of hemicellulosic wall thickenings in palisade cells over the entire extent of the seed coat; and formation of lignin in the middle lamella between the two adjoining palisade layers at the hilum.
10.2307/2484299|A systematic revision of the North American Galium obtusum group consisting of G. labradoricum, G. obtusum ssp. obtusum and ssp. filifolium (comb. nov.) is presented. Types, synonyms, descriptions, chromosome numbers, pollen measurements, ecological observations and distribution maps are given for each taxon. Taxonomic problems, morphological variability and characters separating them from other taxa of sect. Aparinoides that occur in North America are critically discussed. An artificial key is also provided. The group is a polyploid complex containing a diploid (G. labradoricum: 2n=24) and two tetraploids (G. obtusum ssp. obtusum and ssp. filifolium: 2n=48). Chromosome number determinations for G. labradoricum and G. obtusum ssp. filifolium are new.
10.2307/2483333|The annual linear growth rate of the lobes of three species of lichens, Lobaria pulmonaria, L. quercizans and Menegazzia terebrata, growing on the Cumberland Plateau in Tennessee were determined photo-graphically for a three-year period. During 1964-1967 lobes of L. pulmonaria averaged 4.82 mm annually; L. quercizans, 5.62 mm; and M. terebrata, 2.54 mm. There was wide variation of growth within each species, some lobes growing little or none one year and two and a half times the 3 year average the subsequent year. Slow annual growth of a lobe was usually preceded or followed by rapid growth.
10.2307/2560360|The woody vegetation of a previously studied 60-yr-old successional forest on a floodplain of the Raritan River in New Jersey was analyzed for rate of forest development in relation to site characteristics. Environmental factors including texture, chemical characteristics, and moisture of the surface 15 cm of soil; soil horizonation; depth of the water table; and frequency of flooding were analyzed along an elevational gradient. A rather abrupt change in soil texture and chemical characteristics, especially exchangeable cations, occurred at approximately 3.35 m above mean sea level. Corresponding to this textural and chemical discontinuity was a change in depth of the water table. Comparisons of woody species composition above and below 3.35 m showed consistent differences, with the higher area having greater species richness, species diversity (H'), equitability (J'), basal areas of trees, and total cover of shrubs. Comparisons of the rate of forest development on the high area of the floodplain with that of nearby upland sites indicated that development occurs more rapidly on the floodplain. With respect to trees ( 2.54 cm dbh), at stages of approximately 21 to 25, 40, and 60 years, the floodplain showed greater species diversity, equitability, basal area, mean stem diameter, and tree height. The floodplain study area passed from a thicket to a structurally complex forest stage between 40 and 60 years in development.
10.2307/2996344|The tristylous Mexican Oxalis nelsonii has trimorphic flowers with trimorphic pollen of generally high viability. In a crossing program using a diploid race of this species, seed-set following illegitimate pollinations is lower than that following legitimate pollinations, indicating the presence of an incompatibility system. Long-level anthers are more than twice as fecund as mids and shorts. Self-incompatibility seems to be strongest in shorts and weakest in longs. All illegitimate pollinations resulted in some seed set. The compatibility relationships of the morphs of O. nelsonii differ in various ways from those of the other tristylous members of section Ionoxalis that have been studied. The nature of the selective forces leading to the repeated evolution of distyly from tristyly in this section remains unclear, though future studies of the tetraploid races of O. nelsonii may provide insights into these forces.
10.2307/2484873|Litter deposition and the standing crop of the L and F layers of the forest floor in the William L. Hutcheson Memorial Forest were measured over a two-year period from September 1971 to September 1973. The mean annual total litter fall was 648.1 g m
10.2307/2482101|1. Utilizing the freezing-drying technique developed by DeLamater (1951), a typical mitotic process comparable to that which occurs in higher organisms has been defined. 2. The mechanism includes morphologically distinct centrioles, what appear to be two chromosomes, and the formation of a cell plate when the cross wall is developed. 3. The chromosomes have been shown to elongate into threads and contract during the course of the cycle. It is thought that a nucleolus also occurs.
10.2307/2996338|Circular plots of 250 m<sup>2</sup> area centered on standing dead stems of Ulmus americana were used to sample understory vegetation in canopy gaps created by the death of elms. A total of 37 plots were sampled in 28 sites representing a variety of wetland habitats. Shrub species typical of open habitats were abundant in gaps created by the death of 2 or more neighboring elms (multiple-tree gaps) but not in single-tree gaps. Multiple-tree gaps contained fewer seedlings and saplings of canopy tree species than did single-tree gaps. The patchiness of occurrence of the open-canopy shrubs and their relationship to multiple-tree gaps were not reflected in conventional large-scale (0.1 ha) vegetation samples of the same stands. The establishment of dense patches of shrubs may inhibit tree regeneration within the multiple-tree gaps.
10.2307/2996996|Leaflets of Caesalpinia pulcherrima Sw. and Parkinsonia aculeata L. (Caesalpinia group, Tribe Caesalpinieae, Subfamily Caesalpinioideae, Leguminosae) were examined fresh or processed for clearing, resin-embedded sectioning, and scanning electron microscopy. Both species have dimorphic idioblasts restricted to adaxial and abaxial subepidermis: broadly ovoid to pyriform (adaxial) and obloid (abaxial) in C. pulcherrima, and cylindrical (adaxial) and obloid to lobedobloid (abaxial) in P. aculeata. Cell contents were not identified but all idioblasts tested negative for oil. In both species, several thousand idioblasts occur per leaflet, with the preponderance, at least twice as many, being adaxial. Caesalpinia pulcherrima has two possibly unique features: idioblasts are connected to the epidermis by peglike invaginations from overlying epidermal cells; and numerous scattered epidermal patches, each consisting of 2-8 tiny cuboidal cells, occur among, but not in contact with, idioblasts. These subepidermal foliar idioblasts were described briefly only once before, in a German dissertation of 1892. Although idioblast function is unknown, these unusual cells are perhaps potential taxonomic characters in this still tentatively classified tribe.
10.2307/2996361|Age and size data on over 2200 trees were used to reconstruct developmental.patterns and regeneration dynamics of four successional and two climax stands of subalpine forests in the Colorado Front Range. The dominant tree species of these forests are Engelmann spruce (Picea engelmannii), subalpine fir (Abies lasiocarpa), limber pine (Pinusflexilis), and lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta). Due to relatively weak relationships between age and size for all four species, patterns of stand development could not have been reliably inferred from size data alone. Following wildfire on the most xeric sites, limber pine is the principal pioneer species and dominates seedling establishment for 50 to 100 or more years. At most sites, however, Engelmann spruce and subalpine fir eventually establish and gradually replace limber pine. On less xeric sites, depending on availability of seed, either Engelmann spruce or lodgepole pine, alone or together, may act as pioneer species. Establishment of subalpine fir may be coincident or may be several decades later. Eventually it and Engelmann spruce replace lodgepole pine as the canopy dominants. The age structures of the stands investigated are consistent with the view that variation in establishment is at least as important as mortality in shaping age frequency distributions in successional stands. In climax Engelmann spruce-subalpine fir stands both species have all-aged populations; the typically greater abundance of young subalpine fir appears to be compensated by the much greater longevity of Engelmann spruce.
10.2307/2481860|1. In an endeavor to determine the basis of the differences in interpretation of Braun's treatment of N. mucronata by Olsen (1949) and Wood (1948), a re-examination of Braun's original text was undertaken. 2. It was found that this treatment differs from all others in the text by two major aspects, and that in order to interpret N. mucronata in a manner consistent with the remainder of the text certain re-editing is necessary. 3. The re-editing required substantiates Wood's (1948) usage and indicates that Olsen's usage should be reconsidered. 4. A number of Olsen's statements are nullified if Wood's usage is accepted. The majority of other criticisms appear to arise from differences in editorial style in different countries, and the fact that Wood's review is a concentration of information requiring considered study. 5. It is indicated that Wood's names are both valid and legitimate in his interpretation of the "International Rules." 6. It is concluded that N. mucronata illustrates a case of the lack of systematic presentation in Braun's Fragmente which, among other aspects (cf. Wood 1950), renders it unsuitable as a starting-point for nomenclature.
10.2307/2996107|Using comparisons of aerial photograph and field measurements of 55 clones, we determined the rate of expansion of bayberry in Andropogon scoparius grassland in the natural area portion of the Floyd Bennett Field unit of Gateway National Recreation Area. We found that between 1980 and 1984 the average annual rate of bayberry cover increase was 4 08% We discuss bayberry's role in future vegetation change at Floyd Bennett Field, and point out the possible threat to continued change posed by expansion of fire-prone and fire-tolerant Phragmites australis
10.2307/2996262|The Kalbfleisch Field Research Station is a 38-hectare tract in the Dix Hills section of Suffolk County, on Long Island, New York. Topography is determined by the Ronkonkoma end moraine. A 25 hectare area on the station, designated the "Old Forest," is underlain with soils of three types: a silt loam, a sandy loam, and a loamy sand. The Old Forest was censused for trees, and was sampled for two understory layers by means of line transects. Trees that exhibited the greatest percentage of total basal area are: Quercus alba (29.3%), Q. velutina (29.1%), Cornus florida (22.2%), Carya ovalis (8.5%) and Quercus coccinea (6.2%). We designate this forest type as Oak, Hickory-Dogwood. A review of the literature reveals that forests of this type are widespread on drier sites in the vicinity of New York City.
10.2307/2482751|A vegetation survey was conducted in a 30 acre stand located five miles from Philadelphia on the Chickies Formation of the Trenton Prong. Dominant canopy species in order of importance are Quercus velutina, Q. rubra, Liriodendron tulipifera,and Quercus coccinea. The 80-90 foot canopy consists of growth initiated after the stand was clear-cut approximately 50 years ago at the time of the chestnut blight. The poorly developed understory is 20 feet high, and composed of Acer rubrum, and Cornus florida. Over half of the vegetative cover at shrub level is Viburnum, acerifolium. This stand's composition is similar to the oak-tuliptreehickory stands described by earlier investigators as occurring to the west and southwest of Philadelphia and indicates that the association represented by all these stands extended close to the present day boundaries of northwestern Philadelphia.
10.2307/2996724|The protogynous flowers of Sanguinaria canadensis L. (Papaveraceae) were facultatively xenogamous. They were cross-pollinated by bees, primarily female Adrena carlini, when flying conditions permitted and self-pollinated in their absence, which was a consequence of cool and/or rainy weather. Moderate to high pollinator activity did not occur until air temperatures reached 17-20
10.2307/2996813|Approximately 40% of 500 Erythronium americanum seeds sown in 1979 in a 1-m
10.2307/2483383|The extension of pollen viability has been attempted by the control of extremes of either temperature or humidity. However, most studies have dealt with the effects on pollen longevity of various combinations of the more moderate levels of temperature and relative humidity. A new approach to the extension of pollen viability has been by the freeze-drying method, which permits storage of a sealed sample in an uncontrolled atmospheric environment and makes possible the shipment of pollen in inexpensive, conventional-type packaging. The reported pollen storage results with this method by various investigators are given, together with the most recent data from experiments of over seven years by the author in which treated pollen has, to date been stored for over three years in an uncontrolled atmospheric environment.
10.2307/2996121|An old-growth (more than 150 years old) forest in southeastern Louisiana was studied during 1982-1983 using nested quadrats to quantify the ecological importance of the woody species. The canopy of +35 m height is dominated by American beech (Fagus grandifolia Ehrhart) with 3 other co-dominants: spruce pine (Pinus glabra Walter), southern magnolia (Magnolia grandiflora L.) and sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua L.). The relict angiosperm star anise (Illicium floridanum Ellis) is a very common shrub. Twenty-eight woody species were found, within a forest basal area of 39.8 m<sup>2</sup>/ha. The overstory species were underrepresented in the smaller size classes, while the shrub and understory species showed typical reverse J-shaped size class distributions. The forest is thought to be climax.
10.2307/2481897|Roots of Allium cepa were treated with 1, 100, 1000 and 2000 ppm. solutions of maleic hydrazide, and observations were made on the inhibition of total growth and of cell division alone. The effects on both were in order of the concentration of the MH solutions, but the effect on cell division did not occur simultaneously with the effect on total growth. It is suggested that lower concentrations inhibit cell division but not cell enlargement, while higher concentrations inhibit both. Deleterious effects on tissue structure were observed only among groups treated with solutions of 1000 and 2000 ppm. continuously. These were also the only groups in which there was any failure of recovery from the treatment.
10.2307/2484553|A New species, Clidemia utleyana, is described from the valley of the Rio Grande de Orosi in Costa Rica. Diagnostic features of this species include its cordate leaves with long acuminate to caudate apices, short congested inflorescences, bright red petals, and obovoid to dolabriform anthers with ventrally inclined apical pores. The new species appears to be a taxonomically isolated entity without close relatives among described congeners.
10.2307/2996811|Fruit quality was examined by species, vegetation association, soil parameters, and time since fire. Of the nine species examined, Carya floridana fruits had the highest concentrations of energy, protein, fat, fiber, nitrogen, phosphorus, iron, copper, and zinc and had the highest digestibility. Acorns of the red oaks studied (Quercus myrtifolia, Q. inopina, Q. laevis) had higher energy and fat concentrations and greater total digestibility than acorns of the white oaks examined (Q. geminata, Q. minima, Q. chapmanii). Palmetto (Sabal etonia, Serenoa repens) drupes were high in fiber, ash, and concentrations of potassium, sulfur (Sabal etonia), and sodium (Serenoa repens). Fruit quality was not correlated with site soil characteristics. Although fruit quality changes correlated with time since fire in some species, the changes differed by species and vegetation association. During ripening, hickory fruits increased concentrations of protein and fat but decreased levels of energy and fiber. In contrast, acorns increased energy concentrations and the amounts of digestible carbohydrate. Palmetto fruits decreased in energy, protein, and fiber concentrations during ripening. These results are useful in understanding preferences among frugivorous animals.
10.2307/2484743|Comparative studies of the anatomy and morphology of S. apoda (L.) Spring and S. ludoviciana A. Br. were undertaken as a basis for understanding the anatomy and taxonomy of the two taxa. Selaginella ludoviciana has an erect habit, while S. apoda remains prostrate. Both species branch pseudomonopodially. The microphylls of S. ludoviciana have a hyaline border, whereas a distinctive differentiated margin is lacking in the leaves of S. apoda. Differences in leaf morphology, stomatal distribution and leaf anatomy occur in the taxa. In both species adventitious roots arise at the dichotomies of the stem and exhibit a monarch form and exarch xylem maturation. The stelar pattern of the stem is protostelic, with the stele suspended by trabeculae in a lacuna. Xylem maturation is exarch in the stem. A basic nodal pattern of a single, unbranched trace associated with no leaf gap occurs in both species. The taxonomic recognition of a single species versus two species is discussed.
10.2307/2483953|Callus was caused to grow under axenic conditions on stem segments of systemically infected tobacco plants. Such callus had a high concentration of virus which persisted, in progressively diminishing amounts, through 5 transfers, at monthly intervals, to new medium. The cells were shaken apart in liquid medium and observed by time-lapse phase photomicrography. The first of 2 types of inclusion-containing cells had several large X-bodies, later developed spike crystals, then more small X-bodies, and finally, hexagonal crystals. The second had one or more large hexagonal crystals, later often developed more of them, but usually developed only a few X-bodies, and often none. In all inclusion-containing cells the streaming appeared to be at the same rate as in uninfected cells, though the former had much more cytoplasm (as transvacuolar strands) than the latter. The X-body-containing cells underwent normal division, but the crystal-containing ones did not. The nuclei of inclusion-containing cells lost their granular aspect and became very light-absorbing. There was a long-time persistence of the inclusions under the conditions of culture. Size of inclusion-containing cells was not less than that of healthy cells, in contrast to infected mesophyll in vivo. The isolated cell, previously infected as a component of callus, can develop inclusions as do cells in vivo. This development is entirely intracellular, and does not require contact with other living cells. However, such contact appears necessary for entrance of virus to make possible its future duplication.
10.2307/2996913|Flowering and fruiting of the small flowered pawpaw, Asimina parviflora (Michx.) Dunal, was studied in central Florida to determine phenology, pollination, breeding system and germination. This species flowers from mid-February to the end of March. The protogynous flowers occasionally overlap in pistillate and staminate phases. Diptera are the main visitors to the flowers. Bagged flowers occasionally produce fruits (6.8% in 1984). In open-pollinated flowers 3.2% matured fruits in 1984, and 4.5% matured in 1987. Hand cross-pollinations resulted in 16% fruit-set in 1984 and 25% in 1987. Hand self-pollinations resulted in 10.4% fruit-set in 1987. Seed numbers per flower were significantly larger for cross pollinations. Of cross-pollinated seeds, 17.5% germinated; of open-pollinated, 10%; and of self-pollinated, 0%.
10.2307/2484718|A standard leaf color classification system was developed to represent five stages of autumn coloration for leaves of the deciduous plains cottonwood (Populus sargentii Dode). Freshly picked leaves representative of each of these five standard colors were quantitatively extracted for chlorophyll. Fully green leaves had a total chlorophyll concentration of 14.4 mg/g leaf and a chlorophyll a:b ratio of 4.10. In the transition from green to yellow, the total chlorophyll decreased to 1.44 mg/g leaf with the chlorophyll a:b ratio decreasing to 2.18 in fully yellow leaves. Some physiological aspects of the decrease in the chlorophyll a:b ratio are discussed.
10.2307/2484259|Thirty stratigraphic samples from a 2.75-m section of sedge peat located on northern Adak were studied for their pollen and spore content. The section is approximately 10,250 radiocarbon years in age and contains numerous volcanic ash horizons. Three major pollen assemblages indicative of the postglacial vegetation sequence are (1) Cyperaceae-Salix-Empetrum-Lycopodium in the beginning, (2) Cyperaceae and Gramineae between about 10,000 and 3,000 years ago, and (3) subsequently Empetrum. Climate, cold and windy during the early and late postglacial and warmer midway, is interpreted to be primarily responsible for the vegetation changes. The effect of ashfalls on the vegetation appears to have been only transitory.
10.2307/2996885|Sphagnum carolinianum, S isoviitae, S brevifolium, S viridum and S. majus ssp. norvegicum are added to the New York State flora while S strictum is removed, giving a current total of 50 species and one subspecies. Significant inland range extensions are also noted for the oceanic species S. tenerum and S. flavicomans. The status of S. bartlettianum in the state is clarified. Several new records are noted for the rare S. annulatum and S andersonianum.
10.2307/2484659|Woods of 35 species of Weinmannia were studied and the variability analyzed in relation to various environmental factors. All species possess solitary vessels which have opposite to scalariform intervessel pitting and scalariform perforation plates, fiber-tracheids, both multiseriate and uniseriate rays, and diffuse to diffuse-in-aggregates and scanty axial parenchyma. The anatomical variation present among species does not appear correlated with altitude but rather with major floristic regions and latitude. Neotropical montane species typically possess the most primitive vessel element type as evidenced by diameter, outline in transverse section, intervessel pitting, and the number of bars per perforation plate. Indo-Malesian and Madagascan plants have the most advanced vessel condition. Species from higher latitudes exhibit trends in wood structure similar to those reported for other dicotyledons, viz., growth rings present and vessels that are very narrow in diameter and which tend to be shorter in length than other members of the genus. Although it is clear that the most primitive woods have been maintained in the Neotropical uplands, it is unclear why the species from Indo-Malesia have more advanced anatomy.
10.2307/2483509|Eighteen seeds developed in 64 florets in controlled reciprocal crosses of A. scribneri and S. hystrix. Fifteen of the 18 seeds germinated, and each proved to be hybrid. The hybrids were morphologically intermediate between the parents, although they bore a closer resemblance to S. hystrix in overall size and appearance. The parents were meiotically regular and behaved cytologically as strict allotetraploids, 2n= 28. The hybrids averaged 1.74 univalents and 13.13 bivalents in 138 cells at metaphase I. Chromosome pairing, which was attributed to allosyndesis, indicated a close relationship between A. scribneri and S. hystrix genomes. In spite of close genomic homologies, the hybrids were totally sterile. A. Scribneri and S. hystrix appear to be more closely related than their current taxonomic status indicates. Key diagnostic characteristics such as single vs. multiple spikelets and continuous vs. disarticulating rachis do not accurately reflect relationship among Agropyron, Elymus, and Sitanion species.
10.2307/2484415|Torilis japonica (Houtt.) DC., an Eurasian winter annual, occurs in disturbed habitats throughout much of the eastern United States. Germination occurs in September and October, and seeds mature in late July and early August of the following year. Seeds are not dispersed at maturity but remain attached to the plants until autumn. Although a large portion of the seed crop is nondormant at maturity and at dispersal, many of the seeds do not germinate until autumn of the next year. Seeds that do not germinate in autumn are induced into dormancy by low winter temperatures and thus spring-germination is prevented. During spring and summer the seeds after-ripen, and they germinate during the following autumn. One possible ecological significance of this life cycle strategy is that a reserve of seeds in the soil would give the species in any given area another chance for establishment without immigration should seed crop failure occur.
10.2307/2482737|1. Pythium mamillatum appears intimately related to P. debaryanum as it resembles that species in the branching habit of its mycelium, in the shape and size of its sporangia, and in the positional relationships of its oogonia and antheridia. 2. A germinating oospore of Pythium mamillatum may produce swarm spores by undergoing conversion into a sporangium, or by giving rise to a globose sporangium outside the oogonial envelope.
10.2307/2995940|The genus Marginariopsis (based on Drymoglossum wiesbaurii) is usually separated from Pleopeltis because of its leaf dimorphy, the sporophylls tall and narrow and coenosoral. Comparative studies of this taxon and its nearest relatives indicate that there are three stages of differentiation of the fertile leaves (1) monomorphy (typical Pleopeltis) to dimorphy (P. fructuosa), (2) Separate sori (typical Pleopeltis) to partial soral fusion (semicoenosory, P. gomeziana sp. nov.), and (3) partial to complete soral fusion (coenosory, P. wiesbaurii). On the basis of this sequence of transformations, it is concluded that the generic segregation of Marginariopsis is untenable. The changes in leaf dimorphy described in the present group of three species are paralleled by those in the genus Solanopteris. The appropriate taxonomic treatment of the transitional taxa is not entirely resolved.
10.2307/2484522|Macerated leaves, esculin and sesquiterpene lactones obtained from Artemisia tridentata ssp. vaseyana and other species of sagebrush inhibited the growth and stimulated the respiration of Cucumis sativus. Arbusculin-A, achillin, desacetoxymatricarin, viscidulin-C and viscidulin-B were the most active sesquiterpene lactones and showed phytochemical effects at 10
10.2307/2483933|In addition to the reported hexaploid and octoploid forms, red maple may exist as a septaploid and in an aneuploid condition. Aneuploid hybrids with silver maple are also possible. Neither euploid or aneuploid interspecific hybrids show meiotic irregularities associated with hybridity, although there may be a precocious separation of the silver maple chromosomes at late metaphase I. Interspecific hybrids go through meiosis in the spring, as in red maple. Asynapsis in an octoploid red maple resulted in a wide size-range of pollen, with only the 2x or the 4x grains being functional in fertilization on different females.
10.2307/2482156|In all respects the cytology of T. Reverchoni corresponds closely with the cytology of other autotetraploid species of the Virginiana complex of Tradescantia as reported by previous workers. T. Reverchoni is an autotetraploid with n = 12 chromosomes with median or submedian centromeres. There is an average of 3.1 multivalent chromosome configurations per cell at metaphase of the first meiotic division. Chiasmata are all terminal at metaphase, and there is an average of 0.9 chiasmata per univalent chromosome. Only one case of chromosome interlocking was found in the 21 cells studied. Pollen fertility is about 85 per cent with occasional micronuclei present in young spores. It is probable that this is a purely tetraploid species.
10.2307/2484696|Polyembryony, particularly in angiosperms, is a rare occurrence. This is a report on the occurrence of this unusual phenomenon in Acer saccharum Marsh. and the successful growth of two sets of twin seedlings for more than three years.
10.2307/2483912|In a dry-mesic area at 11,600 feet in northern Colorado, a study was made to evaluate plot shape, size, and number for quantitative study of alpine vegetation. The plots tested were 100, 400, 800, and 1600 square centimeters in size, with rectangles, squares and one circle utilized. Placement designs were random and block random. Densities were determined for seven species, ranging from common to uncommon, and frequencies were found for all species in one plot size. Pattern was estimated by chi-square and the variance/mean ratio for the species sampled for density. Estimates of plot efficiency were based upon the time required to read the number of plots needed to obtain a 10 per cent standard error of the mean, and upon average weighted standard deviations and stability in density and frequency values. Of the various evaluations, none favored the smallest sized plots of 100 cm
10.2307/2483623|Among 35 inbred lines and single crosses of corn (Zea mays L.), the sugary inbred line P14 was superior for endosperm culture. Endosperm tissue grew best at 32 C in Nitsch's medium with 4% sucrose and supplemented with 0.5% Difco yeast extract. Yeast extract could be partially replaced by asparagine. The best period for endosperm excision was 7-10 days after controlled self-pollination. Subculturing was best accomplished from material incubated for 3-4 weeks at 32 C. Tissues isolated at or beyond 12 days post-pollination not only failed to grow but lost weight due to continuous respiration at the expense of reserve materials during early stages of incubation. The tissue attained maximum growth 40 days after incubation. Tissue cultures were maintained by periodic transfers, and the earliest isolate was grown for 20 months through 23 successive subcultures. Growth of new isolates as well as subcultures was consistent.
10.2307/2484445|Patterns of energy allocation, inflorescence height, and time of anthesis were studied in a greenhouse for the sexes of Rumex hastatulus, a dioecious annual colonizer. Four soil fertility levels and four densities were employed to determine whether shifts in sex ratio could be induced and whether males and females differed in their patterns of energy allocation. The sex ratio did not change in response to density and nutrient treatments and remained near 53% female: 47% male. Males flowered significantly earlier than females and had shorter inflorescences. Females contained more total energy than males and contained more energy in roots, inflorescences, and inflorescence leaves. Females allocated both a higher total amount of energy and a higher proportion of energy to reproduction than did males. Except for total energy and proportion of energy allocated to reproduction, energy allocation patterns for males and females were similar in response to the density and nutrient treatments. These results are discussed both in terms of niche partitioning between the sexes and in terms of differences in optimal reproductive strategies of males and females.
10.2307/2483275|Fertile leaf margin fragments of Adiantum hispidulum containing varied stages in spore development were fixed in Huseby's fixative for mitochondrial preservation, sectioned at three micra by the paraffin method and stained with iron hematoxylin. Study of the sections shows that through interphase I, the behavior of the cytoplasmic inclusions is essentially like that previously described in Nephrodium, Onoclea, Polypodium and Osmunda. Study of sections of the second division shows a pattern of cytokinesis similar to that of Osmunda regalis. In Adiantum hispidulum, the compact plate present at interphase I is converted, by folding and migration of granules, into a six-planed figure delineating the internal faces of the four tetrahedrally symmetrical spores arising from the spore mother cell. This is precisely as it occurs in Osmunda regalis. The significance of this similarity of behavior is discussed and the probability that it represents a genreal cytokinetic phenomenon in the development of trilete spores is suggested.
10.2307/2483010|The roots of all species showed a common pattern in which a centrally located transversal meristem gave rise to the central cylinder and the cortex toward the base and columella of the root cap toward the tip. The epidermis and lateral portion of the root cap were formed by meristematic cells at the margin of the transversal meristem. Changes in the relative proportions of the different regions of the apex occurred during growth. Width of the meristem and columella of the root cap increased during late embryogeny and early germination. As the root apex narrowed with prolonged growth, there appeared to be some reduction in the width of the meristem. These changes were also accompanied by a reduction in size of the lateral portion of the root cap and the orientation of its cells which come to be more or less parallel to the root axis rather than oblique to it. The decrease in the diameter of the meristem was slight in comparison with the decrease in the diameter of the apex in the longer roots. Hence, the proportions of the meristem and the regions derived from it were altered as the root elongated. In the narrowest roots the meristem occupied a relatively greater portion of the apex diameter. Cortical cells were contributed by the transversal meristem and by periclinal divisions of the innermost cortical cell layer. The major portion was derived from the meristem, only a few cell rows having been added by the periclinal divisions. These divisions were randomly distributed on different radii.
10.2307/2996101|Quantitative descriptions of the vegetation and environmental conditions were made for the Albany Pine Bush, an area containing tracts of pitch pine-shrub oak pine barrens communities which experience frequent fires Detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) was used to order 20 randomly-selected 0 1 ha samples and 30 species along compositional axes The arrangement of samples along the first axis was strongly related to disturbance by fire and agriculture Sixty percent of the samples have not burned severely in the last 30 yr and are hardwood forests or declining pitch pine forests with negligible amounts of shrub oak Hardwood trees in the forest samples were younger than nearby pitch pines A second DCA axis was correlated with depth to water table Samples with high water tables were dominated by hardwood species High densities of young white pine were found under aging pitch pines on dry sites Pitch pine-shrub oak vegetation represents only a small portion of the total Pine Bush However, this community will probably persist despite severe fire suppression in nearby areas, because the vegetation occupies contiguous tracts which have burned as many as four times since 1968, and will probably burn in the future The composition and dynamics of the plant communities in the upland areas of the Albany Pine Bush vary with disturbance regimes and site conditions
10.2307/2995957|The vegetation of six dwarf-shrub bogs in the southern Catskill Mountain region was quantified using phytosociological methods. Four of these peatlands were weakly minerotrophic ecosystems and two were moderately minerotrophic. The dominant vascular plant was Chamaedaphne calyculata, with Kalmia angustifolia, Kalmia polifolia and Vaccinium oxycoccus also being prominent. In comparison to the flora of dwarfshrub bogs found in northern New Jersey, several northern species were either limited to the southern Catskill sites or were more abundant there. Rhododendron canadense (a rare plant in New York) is reported for the first time from this part of the state.
10.2307/2996732|Surveys of wetlands, cliffs and alpine areas in the Adirondacks region of northeastern New York resulted in 12 new stations for rare native species. Saxifraga oppositifolia is an addition to the New York flora. Additional stations are recorded for two recently reported species in New York: Empetrum eamesii ssp. atropurpureum and Trisetum melicoides. Erigeron hyssopifolius and Carex capillaris have been relocated after a lapse in observations of nearly a century. Carex capillaris, Erigeron hyssopifolius, Poa fernaldiana and Saxifraga oppositifolia are recommended for state endangered species status. Calamagrostis pickeringii populations are widespread and stable in the region.
10.2307/2484746|Ridge top heath balds, similar to those found in the Great Smoky Mountains, are common in the Mahoosue Range located on the border of northern New Hampshire and Maine at about 1100 m elevation. The vegetation of a heath bald on Mahoosuc Arm (1140-1170 m elevation) was sampled by the line-intercept method. Kalmia angustifolia is the dominant species throughout the heath bald. Ericaceous species comprise about 75% of the canopy cover on the heath bald. Correlations between species composition and two environmental factors, topographic position and soil depth, were detected. An interspecific association analysis using the line-intercept method was devised, and several species associations were observed on the heath bald. Evidence of fire disturbance was absent on the ridge-top site. Some factors which resulted in the initiation and persistence of the heath bald vegetation are explored.
10.2307/2482103|1. Sorocarps, or fruiting structures, in Dictyostelium are formed by the orderly differentiation of large numbers of separate but clearly coordinated amoeboid cells, or myxamoebae. 2. The sorophore, or stalk, consists of an outer sheath of cellulose surrounding a column of closely compacted, strongly vacuolated, pith-like cells. The sheath appears in advance of obvious cell differentiation and is formed by the extracellular deposition of cellulose in a critical circular zone, the dimensions of which are proportional to the mass of cooperating myxamoebae. 3. The principal force responsible for lifting the sorogen, or sporogenous mass, into the air results from the swelling of stalk cells entrapped in the elongating sorophore sheath; a second and progressively diminishing force results from the coordinated pseudopodial movements of the myxamoebae that comprise the sorogen. Tests which indicate that the sorophore sheath (of extracellular origin) is cellulosic in character include: staining reactions, solubilities, birefringence in polarized light, X-ray diffracton pattern, paper chromatography of hydrolysis products, and decomposition by cellulose- destroying bacteria.
10.2307/2483801|A new species of Psilophyton, P. forbesii, is reported from upper Lower Devonian deposits in northern Maine. The plant is characterized by a strong central (monopodial) stem up to 9 mm in diameter with dichotomously forking side branches; spines or emergences are lacking; the ovoid sporangia were borne in terminal pairs and measure approximately 3.5 to 4.0 mm long and 1.3 to 1.8 mm in greatest diameter. A brief account is given of other early Devonian plants from Maine that are under study in the authors' laboratory and a review is given of two recent studies by H. P. Banks and F. M. Hueber bearing on the classification of the psilophytes and the status of the genus Psilophyton.
10.2307/2482855|Pollen diagrams from sections of estuarine bogs, formerly occupied by coast white cedar (Chamaecyparis thyoides), at Secaucus, East Rutherford, and Kearny, contain a record of local and regional environmental changes covering the last two millennia. Subdivision of the diagrams into pollen zones C3a and C3b follows the zonal system proposed by Deevey for New England. Zone C3a reveals alder and birch in the immediate areas of the bogs and oak, hickory, and chestnut on the upland. Zone C3b records increasing proportions notably of spruce on the bogs with a sharp rise of cattail, ragweed, grass, chenopod-amaranth, and other herbaceous species (sub-zone C3b
10.2307/2484851|Two South American pepper trees, Schinus molle L. and Schinus terebinthifolius Raddi, have been grown in Santa Barbara as ornamentals for at least 100 years. Yet only S. molle L. has become naturalized, even though both taxa are vigorous colonizers. Seed germination characteristics were studied for both species to determine a possible mechanism which inhibits the naturalization of S. terebinthifolius Raddi in southern California. Several germination characteristics were found to differ between these two species, such as relative cold tolerance, acid treatment requirements, and the time between imbibition and germination. The slow germination rate of S. terebinthifolius Raddi may inhibit establishment by not allowing germination and root development during the brief periods of ample soil moisture in southern California. An endogenous germination inhibition system of phenolic acids is suggested for both species. Research is continuing on relative seedling establishment, and the endogenous inhibition system.
10.2307/2484936|The features used by Iljinskaya in proposing the genus Cyclocarya in the Juglandaceae to include Pterocarya paliurus are analyzed and it is shown that most of these are variable or of minor importance, and Cyclocarya is proposed as a subgenus. A revised classification of Pterocarya is given, with new combinations, P. macroptera varieties macroptera, delavayi, insignis, forrestii.
10.2307/2996287|The impact of gypsy moth defoliation on four species of oaks in the Greenbrook Sanctuary, NJ, indicates that mortality of Quercus rubra is significantly higher than that of Q. alba, Q. prinus, and Q. velutina. Larger red oaks experience the highest mortality. Mortality is highest for red oaks occupying moist and mesic sites and lowest for oaks at dry sites. Red oak has experienced a 56% decline in relative dominance over a three-year period, 1980-1982.
10.2307/2483971|Carbon dioxide exchange in two mesic (Catopsis nutans and Guzmania lingulata) and two xeric tilland-sioid bromeliads (Tillandsia circinnata and T. ionantha) was determined under several different environmental conditions. Both xeric species exhibited pronounced dark CO
10.2307/2483366|All plants in two populations studied were self-incompatible. Self- and cross-incompatibility were associated with pin and thrum flowers of the Primula type. There was considerable variation in length of flower parts among, but not within, individuals. Incompatibility was due to pollen tube inhibition, swelling and bursting at the juncture of hair-like stigmas and style. Pollen tubes from incompatible crosses stained better than pollen tubes from compatible crosses. The species has pollen of two nuclei, 14 to 16 pairs of chromosomes and simultaneous type of cytokinesis after meiosis. The incompatibility is concluded to be of the Primula type but without tight linkage of incompatibility and modifying genes.
10.2307/2996745|The heterogeneity and size of a persistent seedbank of Ambrosia artemisiifolia L. and Setaria faberi Herrm. were studied in two neighboring 7-m x 7-m plots. One hundred sixty pairs of 500-cm
10.2307/2484900|The ceramiaceous red alga Antithamnion boreale is shown to be similar to the genus Scagelia in possessing unequal whorl-branches in groups of 1-4 on each axial cell, gland cells that are lateral on a single parent cell, sessile tetrasporangia, and carposporophytes that develop on whorl-branches that continue growth. A. boreale and the only known species of the genus Scagelia, S. occidentale, appear to be very closely related, differing only by the production of more gland cells in S. occidentale and by the slightly more sinusoidal nature of its apex. The new binomial Scagelia corallina (Ruprecht) comb. nov. is proposed for these species, using the oldest basionym available, Callithamnion corallina Ruprecht; and Scagelia occidentale is reduced to varietal status, as Scagelia corallina var. occidentale (Wollaston) comb. nov.
10.2307/2996627|Dry mass and net photosynthesis (P
10.2307/2484461|Scutellaria parvula Michx. (Lamiaceae) is an herbaceous skullcap that grows in prairies, meadows, open woods and cedar (limestone) glades throughout much of the eastern United States. In the middle Tennessee cedar glades, plants flower, set seeds and form moniliform tubers in May and early June and then die in late June, leaving only the seeds and tubers. Most of the seeds are dormant at maturity, but they quickly afterripen and consequently are nondormant in late summer and autumn. Some seeds may germinate in late July and August, but most of them germinate in September and/or October. After germination, overwintering rosettes are produced. Age of plants when they first flower in the field is unknown, but in a nonheated greenhouse plants from seeds that germinated in autumn flowered, set seeds and formed tubers the following spring. Each tuber has a terminal bud which gives rise to the shoot. These nondormant buds grow slowly, even at optimal daily thermoperiods (30/15 and 20/10 C) in continuously moist soil. In the cedar glades, some shoots may emerge in July and August and produce seeds and tubers in autumn, but most of them do not emerge until September or October. These autumn-emerging plants form rosettes and overwinter in this condition. During winter the tubers decay, and in spring plants flower, set seeds and form new tubers.
10.2307/2996883|Human set fires beginning in the mid 1800s and repeated insect outbreaks of western spruce budworm (Choristoneura occidentalis Free.) and Douglas-fir bark beetle (Dendroctonus pseudotsugae Hopk.) during the past 50 years have resulted in a dramatic change in the montane (<ca. 2900 m) forest landscape of the Colorado Front Range. Here, I examine the historical and spatial relationship between these disturbance agents and topography using stand structure and dendroecological data from 38 contiguous stands. These data suggest that aspect and relief are important factors determining the spatial and temporal patterns of disturbance, succession, and rates of stand development. The rate of postfire stand development and hence, subsequent stand susceptibility to insect outbreaks appears to be related to aspect. North-facing stands experience rapid postfire development and greater susceptibility to insect attack due to higher host tree densities, larger mean tree size, and a more uniform distribution of host trees over larger contiguous areas. Postfire stand recovery on south facing slopes appears to be slower and stand susceptibility to insect attack is less due to lower host densities, smaller mean tree size, and a less uniform distribution of host trees over smaller areas. Relief, independent of aspect, enhances the structural diversity of the forest landscape by promoting irregular burn patterns and intensities, thus creating a fire-induced mosaic of different aged stands. As these different aged stands continue to grow older, they reach a stage of development susceptible to insect outbreaks at different times. As a result, insect-induced changes in the structural characteristics of the current landscape emulate fire-induced landscape patterns that developed largely due to human activities beginning in the 1860s.
10.2307/2483263|Sparkle strawberry plants were given 0, 100, 500 and 1000r per day of gamma irradiation for 42 days and then subjected to various numbers of short-day inductive cycles. Following short-day treatments, methanol extracts of the plant crowns were chromatographed and auxin levels were determined by the Avena first internode assay method. Irradiation at 1000r/day resulted in an initial decrease in auxin levels, but recovery was complete 7 days after treatment. Auxin levels were less influenced by short-photoperiod treatment in plants previously subjected to high irradiation dosages. Plants irradiated at 500r/day required a greater number of consecutive short-day cycles for floral induction to occur than did the control and 100r/day treatment. Plants given 1000r/day failed to flower regardless of the number of photocycles given. A suppression of vegetative growth was observed in all the irradiated plants and could not be correlated with auxin content.
10.2307/2484140|The root system of tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Shreb.) was sampled with an hydraulic soil corer at three locations in North Carolina during the spring, summer, and fall of 1972. Although these locations were characterized primarily by differences in soils, root biomass based on collections at depths down to 165 cm did not differ significantly between locations. Significant seasonal differences in root biomass were observed to soil depths of 45 cm. At greater depths, seasonal fluctuations in soil temperature and moisture seemed no longer of intensity sufficient to affect root production. Vertical analysis of fescue roots reveals that root weight decreases with depth in an exponential manner. The first 30 cm of soil contained an average of 92% of all harvested roots, while 98% of the mass occurred in the upper 75 cm. The latter depth is recommended for sampling perennial grass root systems in soils with properties similar to the ones described.
10.2307/2483735|The present range of Alangium embraces parts of Asia, Africa, and certain islands of the Pacific and Indian Oceans. The fossil record, including pollen and fruit remains as well as some hotly debated leaf impressions, shows that one of the subgeneric sections, sect. Marlea, extended into Europe and North America during much of the Cenozoic era. European paleobotanists now tend to assign their Alangium-like leaf impressions to Sterculiaceae; however, most pollen and fruit remains undoubtedly belong to Alangium. Fossil fruits from the brown coal of Brandon, Vermont, and almost identical fruits from the brown coal of Salzhausen, Germany, resemble fruits of A. platanifolium, the modern species most tolerant of severe winter conditions. In marked contrast, fossil pollen grains from Vermont and from Germany compare quite closely with pollen of A. kurzii, which now ranges from warm-temperate to tropical regions of southeast Asia. An appendix provides details of pollen morphology for Alangium species in the Harvard Pollen Collection.
10.2307/2483734|A fossil plant compression specimen is described that consists of a nonlaminate, pinnate branch system bearing terminal synangia. The synangia are about 2 mm long and consist of four sporangia each of which includes about 400 spores. The fossil seems to be most closely related to certain species of Zeilleria and is tentatively regarded as the microsporangiate organ of a pteridosperm.
10.2307/2997197|After an extensive review of the literature on vegetation classification, this paper introduces a physiognomically-based, partially new nomenclature for the latitudinal zones of forests in eastern North America. These nomenclatural changes are necessary for a critical application to eastern North America of the worldwide H. Walter Zonobiome system. The presently most widely accepted system of forest nomenclature applied to eastern North America is that of E. Lucy Braun. Her nomenclature is partially inconsistent with Walter's categories. It is internally inconsistent in the mixing of taxonomic and physiognomic terminology, and inconsistent in basing nomenclature of one major forest type on edaphic vegetation. The names proposed in the present paper are consistent with the Walter system, based, as they are, on vegetational criteria. The names are: Semi-deciduous Tropical [Flora] Forest Zone (tip of peninsular Florida to the Keys); Temperate [Madrean-Tethyan Flora] Broadleaved Evergreen Forest Zone (southeastern United States); Deciduous [Broadleaved] Dicotyledonous/Evergreen [Broadleaved] Dicotyledonous/[Needleleaved] Coniferous Forest Zone (southeastern U.S.)-the Southeastern Evergreen Forest Region of Braun; Deciduous [Broadleaved] Dicotyledonous Forest Zone (eastcentral U.S.)-the Central Hardwoods regional complex of Braun's Deciduous Forest; [Needleleaved] Coniferous/Deciduous [Broadleaved] Dicotyledonous Forest Zone (northeastern North America) - the Hemlock-White Pine-Northern Hardwoods Region of Braun; and Boreal [Needleleaved] Coniferous Forest Zone (northern North America) - the Boreal or Spruce-Fir Formation of Braun. The last four types are dominated by the Boreal Flora. Using the Bailey system of bioclimatology, the annual ranges of warmth (W, ET) decrease in the following order of forest types: Semi-deciduous Tropical, Temperate Broadleaved Evergreen, Deciduous Dicot/Evergreen Dicot/Conifer, Deciduous, Conifer/Deciduous Dicot, and Boreal Conifer. The Semideciduous Tropical Forest exists in a climate that is essentially frost-free. Of the next two types, both characterized by evergreen angiospermous trees, the climate of the Temperate Broadleaved Evergreen Forest is lower in frost. Length and, especially, warmth of summer correlate with geographic limits of Deciduous Forest, Conifer/Deciduous Dicot Forest, and Boreal Conifer Forest.
10.2307/2483043|Observations on P. taeda seedlings grown from seed indicate that the change from needle-like primary to scale-like primary leaves may occur in the second or third growing season and may be either an abrupt or gradual phenomenon. For a period of time after the transition to scale-like leaves, factors controlling the form of the primary leaf are relatively unstable and may be tiped toward the production of either form by environmental factors. In young or old plants, injuries to terminal buds and spur shoots may result in the production of needle-like primaries by plants formerly producting scale-like primaries. The evidence suggests that substances originating in spur shoots may control, to some degree, ontogenetic characteristics of the long shoot. The rooting ability of cuttings is partially correlated with the form of the primary leaf. Both rooting ability and form of the primary leaf are controlled by something other than a threshold phenomenon. It is proposed that ontogeny in Pinus can be broken conveniently into three phases: juvenile, intermediate, and adult
10.2307/2484298|Microscopic examination of cambial strips from Prosopis spicigera L., obtained from shoot axes of varying circumference, revealed that the cambium keeps pace with the growing girth of the axes. The component initials of the cambium undergo variations in size and number. During this time, the fusiform initials first exhibit a gradual increase and then a decrease in size, while the ray initials mainly undergo multiplication. The relative proportion of one type of initials to the other also varies in axes of varying girth.
10.2307/2481899|A developmental morphological analysis of the mutant "corn grass" reveals the differences between it and normal corn to be due to a different pattern of shoot apical meristem activity. Corn grass shoot apical meristems differ from those of normal corn in volume, in the rate of leaf primordium formation and the rate of stem tissue formation. Corn grass develops, in general, more rapidly than does normal corn. Corn grass appears to be more sensitive in its morphological responses to temperature and/or light factors than is normal corn. The significance of the production of major differences by single gene mutation is highlighted by this corn grass mutation.
10.2307/2483563|Aquamortierella elegans is described as the typespecies of a new genus of aquatic fungi in the Mortierellaceae.
10.2307/2482641|1. For comparison with the growth habits of tropical marine fungi, five species of fungi were cultivated in a graded series of saline media at temperatures ranging from 6
10.2307/2997089|Seed banks were examined for a chronosequence of five stands in order to characterize changes with succession. Species richness, species diversity, and density of seed banks generally decreased with successional age. Also, percentages of both annuals and biennials (including short-lived perennials) in the seed bank flora and in seed density generally decreased. In contrast, perennial herbs increased and woody plants were absent in the youngest two stands and present in the older stands where they exhibited no significant differences. These trends are related to successional changes in the proportions of life-history types in the vegetation that are associated with decreases in seed production and longevity and increases in susceptibility to seed predation.
10.2307/2996946|This flora is based on the collections made by the authors from June 1987 to July 1990. Altogether 525 vascular plant species in 302 genera and 106 families are here reported. The largest families are Asteraceae (62 species) and Poaceae (55 species), and the largest genera are Carex, Solidago and Aster. One hundred thirty-four species are non-native to the United States.
10.2307/2996522|Old field succession has not received the attention in the Coastal Plain that it has in the Piedmont. We studied 19 stands 20 to 99+ years old using the point-centered quarter method for trees and for saplings and 1 m radius circles for seedlings. Loblolly pine (Pinus taeda) is the overwhelmingly dominant first tree invader of these old fields. Sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua) is the most important early hardwood invader, but its understory importance under pine does not translate into overstory importance, presumably because of heavy mortality. White oak (Quercus alba) becomes the first post-pine dominant. In the oldest stands, beech (Fagus grandifolia) is the leading dominant. Though still an important co-dominant in such stands, white oak is not important in the sapling layer, so it may not persist in the future. Virginia pine (Pinus virginiana) is very rare in old field stands, though fairly common in post-timbering succession. In a few sites tuliptree (Liriodendron tulipifera) invades old field stands simultaneously with sweetgum and equals it in importance, but high abundance of tuliptree in the area results from abundant invasion after timbering disturbance rather than a major role in post-cultivation succession. Southern red oak (Quercus falcata) reproduces in the late pine stage but persists in the white oak-dominated stands only as a canopy relict. Hickories (Carya spp.) are present throughout the sere but are never structurally important. The endpoint of old field succession in this area is not oak-hickory; it bears a clear resemblance to the beech- and white oak-rich Southern Mixed Hardwood Forest of areas further south.
10.2307/2482629|1. The existence of plasmodesmata between the embryonic leaf cells of Cibotium chamissoi has been demonstrated with the electron microscope. 2. The plasmodesmata in the cell walls of the embryonic leaves have a diameter of 260-400 . The diameter of the plasmodesma in the cell wall of the mature leaf is approximately 0.15 . 3. The average number of plasmodesmata of the cell wall of the meristematic cell in the embryonic leaf is 150 per 100 
10.2307/2483954|The three taxa designated as Scorpiurus muricatus L., S. sulcatus L. and S. subvillosus L. were investigated. Study of herbarium specimens, wild plants, and specimens grown in experimental plots indicated that the accepted specific delimitations were not based on sound taxonomic characters. Diagnostic pod characters attributed to the S. muricatus complex were shown to overlap even within a single specimen. It was not possible to find any morphological characters which showed constant association with any of the pod characters investigated. All taxa have the same chromosome number (2n = 28). Plants studied were selfers and there was no indication of any genetic crossing barrier between different taxa. It is suggested that all taxa should be considered as one species, S. muricatus L. s.l., with two varieties.
10.2307/2484734|Geissoloma marginatum, sole species of Geissolomataceae and a shrub endemic to a restricted portion of Cape Province, South Africa, has not been described hitherto with respect to most details of wood anatomy. Quantitative and qualitative data for both aboveground and belowground stems show a strong degree of correlation between the primitive features of this wood and the mesic habitats Geissoloma tends to occupy. Geissoloma is interpreted as a relict genus; wood anatomy offers a few features suggestive of relationships. There is little similarity to Myrtales, Thymelaeaceae, Celastraceae, Oleaceae, or Salvadoraceae. Instead, close similarities to wood of Grubbiaceae, Bruniaceae, and, more distantly, certain families of Rosales and Hamamelidales can be cited.
10.2307/2996181|Differential utilization of a limiting resource has been hypothesized as the mechanism through which ponderosa and sugar pine are maintained over an elevational gradient on the western slopes of the Sierra Nevada. However, comparisons of the size (age) structures of ponderosa and sugar pine populations growing under the canopies of large individuals of these two species suggests that sugar pine is slowly replacing ponderosa pine in the forest tree community. Coexistence of these two species is maintained by disturbance which opens up new microsites for the establishment of ponderosa pine. The numbers of other coniferous species occurring under the canopies of ponderosa and sugar pines suggest that both species of pine would become a relatively minor element in the canopy should disturbance be minimized or eliminated entirely.
10.2307/2484182|Canopy composition and relative species importance were determined for a suburban forest near Atlanta. In addition, aboveground biomass (356 t/ha), net annual aboveground productivity (1140 g/m
10.2307/2996429|Direct and indirect gradient analysis techniques were employed to quantify the relationships between vegetation and environment in a valley-basin swamp forest in central New York State It was hypothesized that soil drainage, as indicated by water table position, would be the most important environmental factor ordering vegetation in the swamp, with a secondary influence by site quality as influenced by spatial position with respect to surface and groundwater inflow The direct gradient analysis, based upon weekly measurements of water table height, sorted the site into five drainage classes and clearly demonstrated the primary control on woody vegetation distribution However, the indirect gradient analysis, based upon overstory and ground vegetation composition, was more successful in sorting the vegetation into meaningful communities The overstory vegetation was divided into an upland community occurring on inceptisol, and three swamp communities on histosol (hemlock swamp, and white pine and larch phases of a mixed conifer-red maple swamp) The ground vegetation subdivided the mixed coniferred maple swamp into four communities named for indicator species Environmental correlation suggested that these divisions were largely the result of site quality differences as influenced by proximity to mineral-rich inflow The ground vegetation communities were more clearly separated in the ordination space than the overstory, and were more highly correlated with mean depth of water table, ash content and bulk density of peat Thus, the gradient analyses supported the hypothesis of environmental control of vegetation distribution Finally, the high species richness (272 vascular plants) resulted from high microsite heterogeneity, the complex hydrology of the basin, and the mixing of boreal relict vegetation with temperate swamp species typical of the region
10.2307/2483691|A freshwater plankton sample was placed in sea-water medium (33.8 per mil). After one year Chroococcus dispersus, Melosira islandica, and Tetraedron-like stages of Oocystis submarina (?) survived. After transfer of these organisms into soilwater-extract medium (.03 per mil) a change in the morphology of the Oocystis produced a species identification of O. lacustris (?).
10.2307/2484373|Dubautia Nagatae is separated from D. Knudsenii on the basis of morphological differences in the peduncle, pedicels, phyllaries, flower color, corolla size, achene size, pappus size, and leaf pubescence.
10.2307/2483415|Chromosome counting in mitotic divisions of the antheridial filaments in the genus Tolypella (Characeae) was facilitated by a pretreatment of the antheridia with colchicine. Chromosome number in the monecious species, T. intertexta from New York and T. prolifera from Indiana, and the dioecious species T. hispanica var. porteri from Wyoming was determined to be n=11.
10.2307/2996791|A critical stage in the life cycle of flowering plants occurs during pollen germination and pollen tube growth. When pollen tubes outnumber available ovules, competition among pollen grains occurs. Under such conditions, it has been suggested that an increase in progeny fitness may occur. In Silene latifolia Poiret (Caryophyllaceae), the adaxial surface of the long styles is receptive to pollen germination. As a result, the intensity of pollen competition can be manipulated by placing pollen at various distances from the ovary. We performed an experiment in which we placed excess pollen at one of two distances from the ovary. We then compared seed, seedling, and adult characters of the progeny resulting from these two treatments. Pollen placement had a statistically significant effect on adult sex ratio, with progeny resulting from more intense pollen competition containing a statistical excess of males, and progeny resulting from less intense competition containing a nonsignificant excess of females. Pollen placement did not have a statistically significant effect on any of seven measures of offspring quality (seed number per fruit, mean seed mass, seedling emergence time, cotyledon area after two weeks, leaf area after four weeks, above-ground dry weight after six weeks, and days required to flower). Since one of our dependent variables (seedling emergence time) was found to be significantly affected by pollen competition in an earlier study, it appears that such traits may be as much influenced by parental, environmental, or population-level effects as by pollen competition.
10.2307/2484525|Deshpandiella jambolana (Ramakr. et al.) n. gen., n. comb. (Diaporthaceae), an ascomycete causing a leaf spot of Eugenia cuminii (L.) Druce (Syzygium jambolanum [Lamk.] DC.), in Coorg Forests, Mysore State, India, was previously described as Didymosphaeria jambolana Ramakr. et al. (= Plagiostigme jambolana [Ramakr. et al.] Ullasa) and as Plagiostigme deodikarii Ananth.
10.2307/2481884|1. All roots of wild Kalmia latifolia examined showed the presence of mycorrhizal fungus both endotrophic and ectotrophic. 2. The mycorrhizal associate has been isolated and grown on a synthetic medium. 3. Sterile seedlings have been grown through early stages in a synthetic medium enriched with sucrose and growth substances. 4. The sterile seedlings when combined with the fungal associate on a minimal medium rapidly outgrew controls as well as seedlings of a comparable age which survive in nursery beds. 5. The results suggest the possibility of perfecting a culture technique for Kalmia latifolia comparable with the technique commonly employed for orchids.
10.2307/2483703|A survey of the chromosome morphology of nine native populations (three species) of Tradescantia collected from one of the granite outcrops (Mt. Arabia) near Atlanta, Georgia, was made. The environment in this area shows a relatively high level of naturally occurring radioactivity (0.25 mr/hr. at the exposed surface). The purpose of this study was to determine if this level of radioactivity would produce chromosomal aberrations in Tradescantia-aberrations that might eventually result in an aberrant chromosome complement for an entire population. Such a population would be very useful since the individual chromosome types might be more easily recognized. Measurements of the individual chromosomes for each population are given, and comparisons are made with a similar study which included 18 populations of Tradescantia collected from the Mobile, Alabama, area. No significant variations in chromosome morphology were observed in the populations collected from the granite outcrop, nor were there any significant differences between these populations and those collected from the Mobile, Alabama, area.
10.2307/2484007|Long-term pure cultures of calli of various angiosperms were grown in mixed cultures. The two components in a mixture always belonged to different genera or families. Histologically, there were three different patterns in the mixtures: (1) each component produced tissue masses with very little mutual contact, or (2) each component's masses were separated by a densely-staining barrier, or (3) they were immediately adjacent to each other, obviously with walls united. No fusions of protoplasts of the different components were seen. When buds or roots were produced, they always derived from only one component, and no chimeras occurred. In some mixtures there were either unilateral or reciprocal cytological effects upon the component tissues which are interpreted as homoiogenetic inductions. Experiments, to be reported later, indicate that there is a biochemical basis for the putative homoiogenetic induction, and in turn, that there are reciprocal biochemical transformations in the mixed tissues.
10.2307/2483989|Field, greenhouse, and laboratory studies were made of the habitat, distribution, morphology, life history, chromosome numbers, genetic relationships, and reproductive systems of four species of Arenaria in the southeastern United States: A. groenlandica, A. glabra, A. uniflora, and an undescribed species from Alabama. The last three are characteristic of the granitic flat-rocks in the Southeast; A. groenlandica is montane and arctic-alpine in distribution. A. glabra and A. groenlandica are similar morphologically, and both have n = 10 chromosomes, but differ in several important ways: A. glabra is a winter annual and its seeds require after-ripening before germination; A. groenlandica is a perennial, and its seeds do not require after-ripening. A genetic barrier to hybridization has been developed. A. uniflora differs from A. glabra and A. groenlandica in its n = 7 chromosomes and in characteristics of the flower and seed. The new Alabaman species is similar to A. uniflora and is closely related to it; crosses between the two result in reduced seed set. The undescribed Alabaman species is largely self-pollinated, but the other species are protandrous and adapted for outcrossing.
10.2307/2483750|Certain aspects of flower and seed development of a tropical orchid Bromheadia finlaysoniana are described. The organogeny of floral parts is acropetal. The gynostaegium and pollinia are organised after the formation of perianth lobes, followed by the inferior ovary. The anther wall is massive and at maturity all the cells except those of epidermis develop fibrous thickenings. At the time of shedding each of the four pollen cells is binucleate within the compound pollen grain. Pollen germination is observed. Embryo sac development is according to the polygonum type. The primary endosperm nucleus degenerates or rarely divides to form two nuclei which also degenerate subsequently, and thus the seed is non-endospermic. Embryo development is described. Flowers were hand pollinated to determine the period involved between pollination, fertilization, seed and fruit development. Fertilization takes place four weeks after pollination and the mature seed is formed four weeks after fertilization. Present observations are compared with previous literature.
10.2307/2484191|Codium fragile (Suringar) Hariot subsp. tomentosoides (van Goor) Silva was found at Black Point Landing, Assateague Channel ca. 2.5 km south of Chincoteague, Va. on 11 May 1976 This is believed to be the southernmost point of distribution along the Atlantic sea board reported to date for the species.
10.2307/2482070|1. The meiotic behavior of hexaploid orchard grass was studied and compared with the behavior of tetraploid progenies carrying a reciprocal translocation and with the meiotic behavior of tetraploids as reported elsewhere. 2. Correlation coefficients calculated for meiotic irregularities, in the hexaploids indicated that the pattern of irregularity was similar to that of tetraploids, especially inbreds which show a high degree of irregularity. 3. Precocious disjunction is suggested as a factor influencing meiotic regularity. 4. The percentage of aneuploidy in the hexaploid progenies ranged from 0 to 33 per cent, while approximately 11 per cent of the plants examined resulted from intercrossing with adjacent tetraploids.
10.2307/2996777|We measured stem growth and recruitment in three populations of Clethra alnifolia established in wetland forests, in canopy gaps, and in a recently cleared powerline right-of-way (ROW) to assess the ways in which C. alnifolia responded to canopy disturbance. Seasonal growth and density of stems and flowering rates were greater in canopy gaps, although greater overall recruitment occurred in the closed canopy forest. Total stem density, extension growth, and flowering significantly increased in the ROW and were directly related to distance from the ROW edge. Seedling density and new stem recruitment also increased significantly in the disturbed area. Clethra alnifolia demonstrated a "light flexible" response to canopy disturbance, regenerating established populations in the forest primarily through vegetative reproduction and producing greater stem density and aerial cover under disturbed canopies, but requiring significant or long-term canopy disruption to initiate increased sexual reproduction.
10.2307/2996760|Seedfall and seedling recruitment was assessed in spruce-fir forests of the Great Smoky Mountains (Tennessee and North Carolina) from 1985 to 1990. A permanent system of 66 plots was measured including overstory, understory, and seedling strata with seedtraps located at a third of the plots. Fraser fir (Abies fraseri (Pursh) Poir.) seed production was highest in 1987 when almost two and a half million seeds per hectare were collected at the highest elevations (1980 + m). In other collection years fir production ranged from 300,000 to 500,000 seeds/ha, with the exception of 1990 (complete seed failure). Red spruce (Picea rubens Sarg.) seed production was highest at lower elevations. The majority of fir (88-100%) and spruce (54-100%) seeds were empty. Spruce seed viability was highest in 1987 and increased with decreasing elevation (18-41%) while fir seed viability in that year was lower (6-9%). Spruce and hardwood germinal (< 1 year) and seedling (1 year to 1.37 m) densities tended to decrease with increasing elevation while fir germinal counts increased at higher elevations. No fir germinals were found in 1989 or 1990. Spruce seedling and understory densities were greatest at 1675 m elevation. Stem densities (seedlings, understory, and overstory) tended to decrease with increasing size with the exception of red spruce at 1525 and 1980 m elevation classes where understory densities were less than overstory densities.
10.2307/2996816|The Flora of Fire Island contains over 400 taxa found growing without cultivation. Each taxonomic entry is accompanied by an annotation which describes the taxon's abundance, soil moisture requirements, associated habitat and the flowering period. Distribution is noted for taxa which are rare or restricted to specific locations.
10.2307/2996216|The vegetation of a bog surrounding Little Cedar Pond in southeastern New York was quantified using phytosociological methods in a belt transect and quadrats established along two transects The bog forest is a homogeneous stand of southern white cedar (Chamaecyparis thyoides) The bog mat is characterized by leatherleaf (Chamaedaphne calyculata) as the dominant bog shrub with significant amounts of sheep laurel (Kalmia angustifolia) and dangleberry (Gaylussacia frondosa)
10.2307/2484063|Large inclusion-containing cells from calli of the fifth transfer (which was the last growth period in which virus could be detected) divided asymmetrically. During the division, the hexagonal crystals of virus disappeared, and the X-bodies were dispersed. One derivative of the division was small, lens-shaped, had dense cytoplasm, small vacuoles, and a normal-appearing nucleus. The other derivative was the remainder of the original cell, and was large, highly vacuolate, with many transvacuolar strands of cytoplasm, sometimes re-aggregated X-bodies, and a highly light-absorbing nucleus which probably contained much virus. This large derivative never divided again. The small derivative, however, divided repeatedly during the observation period and produced a mass of meristematic tissue which appeared to be free of virus. It is suggested that this new putatively virus-free tissue arose from a differential division of a virus-infected cell. This differential division appeared to produce derivatives that differed not only in form and cytology, but also in virus content, and is interpreted as a source of the healthy tissue that became an increasing proportion of the callus from the first through the fifth growth periods.
10.2307/2995998|The crown load required to bend over understory treelets was measured in a tropical lowland forest of northeastern Costa Rica. The study provided the first direct measure of margins of safety against elastic instability in trees. Doubling or tripling the initial crown weight caused substantial bending in adults of three understory species. These results were interpreted as indicating that actual trunk diameters were only 1.3-1.4x the minimum diameter required to prevent instability. Saplings of two overstory species also had low stability safety factors, but had lower ratios of crown mass to trunk mass than did the understory species. Higher safety factors were measured in treelets of an open field species Low safety factors allow understory plants to attain greater height for a given support cost, but mechanical failure is more likely to occur Evidence of past instability was noted in two of the understory species The observed stability safety factors were lower than those reported for canopy trees which are subject to additional wind forces
10.2307/2996435|Distinct distributional variation in woody bottomland vegetation occurs in the upstream or headward direction Distributional patterns of several bottomland species were related to fluvial landforms and stream order in the Massanutten Mountain area of northwestern Virginia Species presence or absence was mapped along streams from high-order rivers to first-order basin heads Distributional trends were checked for relation to geomorphic characteristics including landform, basin area, stream order, and channel gradient Flood plains and their characteristic species (Juglans nigra, Ulmus americana, Carya cordiformis, Acer saccarhinum, Celtis occidentalis) are restricted upstream above gradients exceeding 0 150 Channel shelves (bank features) and their characteristic species (Alnus serrulata, Ilex verticilata, Hamamelis virginiana, Lindera benzoin) are particularly well developed along high-gradient reaches and may persist nearly to basin heads Some channel-shelf species are limited above reaches where the upland forest canopy closes over the channel Stream order and landform type are significantly related to species distribution Channel gradient strongly affects channel morphology and, thus, species distribution
10.2307/2996542|Actaea rubra and A pachypoda are pollinated by mating and foraging beetles in northern Michigan, and the latter also by solitary bees and syrphid flies While both species are facultatively autogamous, morphological and temporal features suggest that A pachypoda is adapted for a higher degree of outbreeding. The Eurasian A erythrocarpa is considered to be synonomous with A rubra In Finland, loss of beetle-attracting fragrance and possible facultative apomixis suggests local adaptation to insecure pollinator supplies
10.2307/2482003|1. Helenium Curtisii Gray is one of two spring-flowering representatives of the genus reported in Virginia. It is known only from the vicinity of Raleigh, North Carolina, and from near Williamsburg, Virginia; both the Virginia and the North Carolina stations are in danger of complete destruction. 2. The species has a 2n-number of 28 chromosomes, an n-number of 14. Helenium autumnale has been reported to have a 2n-number of 34.
10.2307/2482613|Analysis of 3200 oospores taken from clonal cultures of six species of Chara how that under different cultural condition oospores from the same genetic stock may vary widely in length/width ratio. A re-evaluation of oospore size, especially as it applies to the differentiation of infraspecific categories, is advised.
10.2307/2482236|1. Recent studies of the problematic Hawaiian fern genus Diellia indicate that it is neither lindsaeoid nor davallioid in affinity as had been previously believed. Present evidence indicates that this genus is instead a relative of the genus Asplenium and is derived by the evolution of marginal sori and secondary commissural veinlets specifically from the group of "black-stemmed" rock spleenworts typified by A. Trichomanes. 2. No individual member of the latter group, however, has heretofore been reported which suggests a specific prototype of Diellia. Described and discussed in detail for the first time here is a previously misinterpreted Hawaiian "black-stemmed" spleenwort, Asplenium leucostegioides Baker, known from only three collections made in 1879 on the island of Maui, an Asplenium which actually does suggest a prototype of Diellia. 3. This species may be distinguished from its presumed immediate relatives in Asplenium by the following ensemble of critical features, all of which it shares, however, with Diellia: robust stipes and early decay of old rachises; abundance and persistence of fibrils and glandular hairs along the rachis; large and conspicuous clathrate paleae; sessile or adnate pinnae; truncate basal margins of the pinnae; entire laminar margins which may be straight or undulate; much-reduced basal pinnae; short sori, with the indusia in full-sized fronds usually only three times as long as broad; darkly pigmented spores; 2-celled gametophytic hairs of characteristic structure; young sporophytes with early leaf stages of unusually large size, and appearance of sori when there are as few as 5 pinna pairs. 4. The present facts do not indicate that this fern is an intergeneric hybrid of Asplenium and Diellia, or that it is a mutation of Diellia; it appears to be a normal species. Of its features, the large cell sizes found in sporophytic and gametophytic tissues, and the somewhat twisted, apparently only slightly ridged rachises, seem to be somewhat unique. The interesting phylogenetic implications of Asplenium leucostegioides make it desirable that efforts be made to re-locate and study this fern in nature.
10.2307/2483355|Gametic chromosome numbers are reported for 52 taxa of the Compositae. First counts are reported for several species of Compositae from the southeastern United States and for several species of Vernonia (Compositae) from North America and from Africa. Some suggestions are made regarding possible cytotaxonomic trends in both Old and New World species of Vernonia.
10.2307/2483039|Light intensity had several important noticeable effects upon the herbaceous layer in a pine-spruce-fir forest in northern Minnesota. Many of the herbs responded to increased light, up to the maximum recorded in the stand, by markedly increasing the percentage of plants able to flower and fruit. While the rate of productivity was very irregular below 12% full light, it became consistently high above this percentage. Below 12% full light factors other than light are undoubtedly influencing the herbaceous layer to a great extent. In both reproduction and productivity, the rate of the increase was about three times with four and one half times the amount of light. The percentage of plants reproducing and the relative productivity seem to be indices of the amount of light reaching the herbaceous layer. There appears to be a wide range in shade tolerance of the various species, with many of the woodland herbs unable to complete their life cycles in dense shade. The more tolerant species are more often dominant in the dense shade and some of these can flower and fruit with as little as 5% full sunlight. Many other species appear to require about double this amount to flower. Although Abies balsamea seedlings can grow well under shady conditions, the paucity of other tree seedlings indicates that many other tree species can not do so. For the most part, the herbaceous layer of the forest consists of species which are not completely adapted to very low light but which are able to carry on photosynthesis somewhat above the compensation point, thus persisting vegetatively on the shaded sites and flowering on sites where gaps in the canopy allow light to enter.
10.2307/2484874|Media prepared with redistilled water which had been stored in polyethylene bottles never used for storing anything else was injurious for the growth of excised roots of Bryophyllum calycinum grown in glass. The toxic material was at least in part non-volatile and thermostable. In experiments in which plastic containers are used the effect of the plastic on the particular biological material should be examined for each stage in the experimental procedure where the plastic is used.
10.2307/2484338|Using the Braun-Blanquet releve method, this study documents the composition and soil profiles of three of the most mesic of the eight plant communities occurring on the Napeague Dunes, east of Amagansett, (Suffolk Co.) N.Y. Differentiation, both between and within communities, is related to the depth of the water table: in the pine forests, depth to water table is greater than 60 cm; in the tall shrub thickets, the median depth is 52 cm; in the cranberry bogs, the median depth is 16.5 cm. There is indirect evidence for autogenic succession from cranberry bog to tall shrub thicket. Succession from either of the latter to pine forest appears to require allogenic causes, such as sand burial from the the surrounding dunes. Floristically, the communities are more similar to those on the dunes at Cape Cod, Massachusetts, than to those on the barrier islands off the coast of New Jersey.
10.2307/2996368|Orchid flowers representing a diversity of specieswithin that family were stained in vivo with neutral red for presumptive evidence of the presence of fragrance glands (osmophores). Additional floral material was embedded in epoxy resin, sectioned, and stained with sudan black B or methylene blue-azure II-basic fuchsin for microscopic examination of tissue with presumed involvement in fragrance production. Sudan black B stained the vacuoles in most of the presumptive osmophoric floral tissue. Neutral red was seen as a precipitate in the vacuoles of epoxy-embedded, sectioned tissue. Neutral red and sudan black B both may have an affinity for flavonoids and terpenoids present in the vacuoles of some orchid flowers. Neither staining reaction is considered an absolute indicator of osmophore tissue, but both stains are useful to establish presumptive evidence for the presence of orchid osmophores. Methylene blue-azure II-basic fuchsin is an effective general stain for this epoxy-embedded tissue, but it is not considered an indicator of orchid osmophores.
10.2307/2482261|1. The prostrate form, Chantransia-stage and sexual shoot of Lemanea australis Atk. have been studied morphologically and cytologically in both the living and fixed and stained condition. The plants used in this study were collected from Richland Creek near Nashville, Tennessee. Herbarium specimens of these plants have been deposited in the Herbarium of Vanderbilt University. 2. The carpospores exhibit a bipolar type of germination pattern, but differ in their germination from other Florideae. 3. The sexual shoot is an outgrowth of the Chantransia-stage. The plants are homothallic; both male and female reproductive organs are borne upon internal, peripheral, generative filaments. 4. The sexual shoot of Lemanea is a complex uniaxial type of plant, which arises by the transverse divisions of an apical cell and further division of its derivatives. 5. Lemanea australis is a diphasic organism whose haploid number of chromosomes is ten. 6. The spermatium is liberated when its nucleus is in prophase, and the division is completed when the spermatium makes contact with the trichogyne. The spermatium appears to have no distinct wall at the time of its liberation, but develops one by the time it makes contact with the trichogyne. 7. The usually bifurcated trichogyne of Lemanea australis has no perceptible nucleus at any stage of development. 8. No auxiliary cells occur in this plant, but there are many nutritive cells produced by the sterile laterals and the gonimoblast filaments. 9. Fertilization occurs in the carpogonium. No evidence of zygotic meiosis has been observed; there is some evidence that meiosis may occur in the primary gonimoblast filaments which are produced directly from the carpogonium by lateral branching. Further study will be required to establish this tentative suggestion. Tetraspores are not formed in Lemanea australis. 10. A distinct placental cell is formed at the base of the cystocarp by the backward migration of cytoplasm and nuclei from some of the central gonimoblast filaments to the carpogonium. 11. The cells of the gonimoblast filaments mature directly into carpospores; development is acropetal. 12. Sterile, elongate paraphyses are produced from the base of the cystocarp late in the growing season. 13. The nucleolus in Lemanea is a dual structure whose outer layer is composed of desoxyribose nucleic acid and whose inner core is Feulgen-negative. The chromosomes are not formed in the nucleolus, but the desoxyribose nucleic acid migrates centrifugally from the surface of the nucleolus to form them during prophase 14. Plastid formation in the carpogonial branch supports the condensation theory of plastid origin, rather than the proplastid or chondriosome theories.
10.2307/2996798|The changing composition and pattern of forests surrounding the Chesapeake Bay are the result of the historical interaction of natural processes and human influences. European settlement in the 17th century and the subsequent incorporation of the Chesapeake into a world economy changed the landscape of the Chesapeake Bay region. In this paper I examine the effects of European land-use practices on the forests surrounding the Chesapeake, by analyzing the record of pollen deposited in estuarine sediments during the last 1300 years. I analyze the patterns of species change and changes in the similarity of the ecological communities at three sites: The Nanticoke River, Magothy River and Furnace Bay. The effects of European settlement were not uniform. In some cases European settlement accentuated differences among sites, while in other cases, settlement diminished these differences and led to a homogenization of the plant communities. The variations seen in the effect of European settlement on the pattern of inter-site similarity depended on the nature of the original plant communities, the specific cultivation practices at the site, and the scale at which the plant communities were examined. At the scale of the entire pollen assemblage, incorporating patterns of forest and non-forest patches, the communities all became more similar to each other. Land clearance for agriculture or charcoal production imposed a similar physical structure on the landscape, one of fragmented forest patches and clearings at all of the sites. This physical structure was manifested in increasing dominance by disturbance-adapted species such as Ambrosia and a decrease in arboreal species such as Quercus and Carya. At the scale of the arboreal pollen, reflecting changes in the remaining forests, areas under the same pattern of land-use showed increased similarity while areas under different land-use showed less. Settlers intensively cultivated tobacco in the Magothy and Nanticoke River sites. The patterns of land-use under this crop system led to an increase in Pinus in the forest patches. The Magothy River site, formerly with low Pinus dominance, became dominated by Pinus and more closely resembled the Nanticoke River site. In contrast, Pinus dominance decreased in Furnace Bay, a region dominated by charcoal production.
10.2307/2483577|Peruvian collections of C. H. Dodson in 1964 have yielded a novelty, A. dodsonii, here described.
10.2307/2484643|Analyses of the leaves of the epiphytes Encyclia tampense and Tillandsia circinata growing on a single population of dwarfed Taxodium ascendens rooted in shallow, seasonally dry soil over calcareous bedrock demonstrate that much greater accumulations of Ca, K, Mg, N and P occur in E. tampense. Only Na is higher in the bromeliad. Several possible explanations for these differences in mineral content are suggested. In a preliminary comparison of two populations of pond cypress which host bromeliad and orchid epiphytes in Florida, dwarfed cypress yielded a more dilute stemflow during midsummer rainstorms and contained smaller quantities of several macronutrients in its outer bark and foliage than did more vigorous Taxodium ascendens on a deeper, permanently inundated substratum. The canopy and trunk of the dwarfed cypress trees, although often heavily infested with vascular epiphytes, may provide insufficient quantities of several macronutrients and thus substantially limit the vigor of vascular epiphytes using these plants as hosts. Such mineral deficiencies may be responsible for the uncommonly low vigor and low fruitfulness reported for T. circinata and the observed small size of E. tampense shoots growing free of debris and tank bromeliad rosettes in the dwarfed pond cypress forests of South Florida compared to other populations of these epiphytes on several other host species.
10.2307/2996047|The vegetation of six low-shrub bogs located near the glacial boundary was quantified using phytosociological methods. Based on pH and Ca ion concentrations, these peatlands were all weakly minerotrophic to ombrotrophic systems. The dominant vascular species were Chamaedaphne calyculata, Decodon verticillatus, Kalmia angustifolia and Vaccinium corymbosum. A number of plant species which are characteristic of northern peatlands and which reach their southern distributional limit in the study region were absent from the low-shrub bogs studied, although Andromeda glaucophylla and Kalmia polifolia were present. Several species were also present in all of the study sites which are not usually found in low-shrub bogs located further north.
10.2307/2483499|The development of sporidia in chains by the rust fungus Ravenelia hobsoni is described in this note. The phenomenon is considered to be in the nature of true proliferation, as the cytoplasmic contents of the primary sporidium are emptied into the secondary sporidium repeating the process. Two important deviations from the normal pattern, namely, the production of secondary sporidia laterally or terminally over the germ tubes and formation of two or three secondary sporidia by the same primary sporidium are reported here for the first time.
10.2307/2483446|Elymus canadensis L., 2n=28, and E. cinereus Scribn. and Merr., 2n=56, crossed readily and yielded 289 hybrid seeds from 350 hand-emasculated florets. Many of the hybrid seedlings were deficient in chlorophyll and died; however, more than 100 survived in the field. Vegetative and spike characteristics of the hybrids strongly resembled those of the E. cinereus pollen parent. The E. canadensis parents behaved cytologically as allotetraploids and consistently formed 14 closed bivalents at metaphase I. Octoploid E. cinereus appears to be an autoallooctoploid of the type AAAABBBB or A
10.2307/2483674|Submerged shoots of Proserpinaca palustris have finely dissected leaves whether grown in long or short photoperiods, while leaves of aerial shoots are dissected in short days but expanded-lanceolate in long days. Shoot habit, internode length, and leaf orientation are also varied in these different environments. High light intensity or elevated temperature may induce aerial leaf shape and shoot morphology in long-day submerged shoots. When a shoot is transferred abruptly to a new environment a series of transitional leaf forms is produced. The number of transitional leaves depends on the number of immature leaves in the bud, which in turn depends on the environment in which the shoot had been growing. Leaf primordia in contrasting environments are identical in form until 500-600 . When the primordia are 500-600  long, five lobe pairs have been initiated in basipetal succession by accelerated cell division at sites along the marginal meristems. At this stage morphological differences become apparent; these involve differential distribution of cell division in lobes and sinus regions. Cell surface replicas revealed only limited differences in cell shape in dissected and expanded aerial leaves. However, in pinnatifid submerged leaves, polar elongation of cells of the lobes and midrib is associated with the larger, more finely dissected leaf form. Further, long-day leaves develop more lobes than short-day leaves, and the rate of leaf development per plastochron is faster in long-day shoots. Heterophylly of amphibious plants is discussed, including possible mechanisms by which the environmental stimulus may regulate the elemental processes of cell division and polar cell expansion which are involved in shaping the leaf.
10.2307/2482799|1. Phyllonoma ruscifolia produces its flowers and fruits in cymes that are outgrowths from the midribs of true leaves. 2. Morphogenetic studies show that the primordium of an inflorescence arises from the leaf meristem and that there is no coalescence between a floral axis and the leaf. The leaves bear stipules and subtend axillary buds. 3. This condition corresponds to that of Helwingia japonica, but probably not to leaf-borne inflorescences of the Dichapetalaceae where various degrees of coalescence prevail.
10.2307/2484337|Three predictions regarding the evolution of components of seed crop production in plants are examined for five species of the Leguminosae displaying a wide range of ecological and life history attributes: 1) For each species, variance in ovule number is significantly less than variance in seed number. 2) Decreased resource availability between sites results in decreased seed number. 3) Plants do not always increase seed crop size in the (apparently) least energetically expensive way. The direct application to plants of conclusions based on studies of clutch size in animals has led to a number of unjustified assumptions concerning the evolution of ovule number and seed number in plants.
10.2307/2481845|1. Mycelia of the aquatic Phycomycete Allomyces javanicus Kniep were grown in agar media containing a dispersion of the chemical carcinogens, 20-methylcholanthrene and 3,4-benzpyrene, in a series of concentrations from 1 to 20 mg. per 100 ml. of medium. 2. When examined by means of phase contrast microscopy, mitochondria were as large, numerous, active and refractive in very high concentrations of carcinogens as they were in the basal medium alone or basal medium plus benzene. 3. In the benzpyrene media, some instances of greatly reduced zoosporangia were noted, but the spores themselves were apparently not affected.
10.2307/2484556|Study in 1978 in six areas of the Mexican Cordilleran Plateau-two in the Sierra Madre Oriental, one on the Coahuila Platform, two in the Basin and Range Province, and one in the Sierra Madre Occidental, provided information about fourteen species of Sedum. The largest number of species, six, was in the area centering on Mt. Cangando near Encarnacion, Hgo. At the other extreme was the Sierra de San Joaquin, south of Nuevo Casas Grandes, Chih, with no species. Two species new to scientific literature are S. globuliflorum, with petals scareely separating at time of anthesis and carpels without styles and sulcate ventrally, on Mt. Cangando; and S latifilamentum, with tuberous roots, erect, slightly connate petals, and carpels similar to those of S. globuliflorum, on Mt. Cangando and nearby. New subspecies are S. parvum ssp. diminutum, with diminutive flowers and elongate leaves, disjunct in the Sierra de la Madera, Coah, and S. wrightii ssp. priscum, with small flowers and leaves, with range from the Sacramento Mts, N. M., southward in the Sierra Madre Oriental, Coah. and N. L. Optimum areas for number of species of Sedum have in common a humid, temperate climate with estimated annual rainfall more than 1,000 mm per year, a mean temperature in the three warmest months of less than 20 C, and a long history in the geological past.
10.2307/2482319|The isolation and identification of one of the blue-flurescing compounds in Avena sativa roots as scopoletin (6-methoxy-7-hydroxy coumarin) is reported. This substance is present in mature portions of five-day-old roots in concentrations in excess of 10 ppm. From three to 18 millimeters behind the root apex, the amount of scopoletin per millimeter of root was found to lie between 0.75 x 10
10.2307/2484280|Pennisetum macrostachyum Benth, is a tetraploid (2n = 68), with a new basic chromosome number n = 17. Microspoiogenesis is normal and 34 bivalents are formed regularly during diakinesis. Meiotic I and II divisions, being normal, lead to the formation of a tetrad of four cells with 97% viable pollen. The hypodermal aichesporial cell functions directly as the megaspore mother cell. Megasporogenesis and embryosae formation are of the monosporic 8-nucleate type. The three antipodal cells by further division give rise to either six to eight nucleate antipodal cells or six to 12 cellular antipodals. In a few embryosacs, the egg divides autonomously and precociously, forming a multicelled embryo, whereas the secondary nucleus remains below the egg or towards the side of the embryo.
10.2307/2482723|1. Male and female grafts of unequal vigor show no influence of one upon the other. 2. Chain grafts consisting of three parts-male, female, male or female, male, female show no sex alteration. 3. Triple grafts-male, female, male or female, male, female yield negative results. 4. Chain grafts-male, female, male or female, male, female also yield negative results.
10.2307/2482190|1. Plant tissues that have been dehydrated may conserve life for long periods, indicating that desiccation itself may not be the cause of death of the protoplasts. Rate of dehydration and rate of restoration of water are found to be critical factors for survival of protoplasts of desiccated tissues. 2. Vegetative tissues conserve life if dehydrated slowly and can be made to tolerate the loss of a large proportion of their water. In extreme cases they may be made to tolerate drying over concentrated sulphuric acid for weeks or even months. They die, however, if dried quickly and if permitted to recover their water quickly. 3. Recovery from repeated plasmolysis and deplasmolysis becomes increasingly difficult and eventually death results when the cells are exposed to change in turgor. 4. In cells that possess large vacuoles, plasmolysis and deplasmolysis cause a greater amount of contraction and swelling of the protoplasts than in cells with small vacuoles. Shrinking and swelling, whether once or more often, may provoke profound disturbances in protoplasmic structure. 5. Different species of plants differ greatly in tolerance to desiccation. Differences in cell size, cell shape, ratio of volume to surface area, and osmotic concentration of sap are correlated with differences in tolerance.
10.2307/2482021|1. The cytological effects of cortisone acetate on Allium were studied. 2. Numerous tetraploid divisions were found in localized groups of cells in the meristem. 3. Many secondary root primordia were present containing numerous tetraploid divisions. 4. Tetraploidy arises, not by c-mitosis nor by a process similar to naphthalene acetic acid action, but by the localized induction of a double chromosome reproduction in the resting nuclei of certain groups of cells.
10.2307/2484220|Leaf size variation with respect to climate was studied at 35 sample sites reported in the literature from the Western Hemisphere. The variation in leaf size was analyzed by plotting the sample sites on Holdridge's (1967) life zone chart and comparing the percentage of species having large leaves (greater than 20.25 sq cm in area) in the different life zones. Four foliar belts were identified in the tropical basal and altitudinal belts. Three of these foliar belts were identified earlier in a field study carried out in Costa Rica (Dolph and Dilcher in press). The fourth foliar belt is not found in Costa Rica because it is confined to very dry basal belt life zones. It was concluded that leaf size cannot be used to identify specific life zones or climates in either extant or fossil floras.
10.2307/2483673|A new variational form of the Oliogocene Astronium truncatum (Lesquereux) MacGinitie with six sepals is discussed and compared to normal pentamerous specimens from southwestern Montana and Colorado.
10.2307/2483796|The study describes ecological variation found in eleven New Jersey populations of Opuntia compressa (Salisb.) Macbr. Ecological and pedological parameters are evaluated and an Importance Value Index was determined for the ecological data. Ecological data indicate that the occurrence of O. compressa is not associated with the presence of any one species or group of species. The soil data indicate no positive correlation between amounts of minerals and the presence of O. compressa.
10.2307/2482194|1. A study of the morphology, karyogamy and meiosis in the rust Coleosporium sidae has been made. 2. There is no catenulation in the formation of the basidial elements. A gelatinous covering is secreted by the probasidia on the outside and toward the sides. The probasidium is formed from a binucleate basidial mother cell following a conjugate division of the nuclei. The two nuclei slightly enlarge in the probasidium and fuse. The prefusion stage is considered similar to leptotene. 3. In zygotene a pairing of the chromosomes takes place and the nucleoli fuse with one another. There are probably nucleolus organizers in this rust. Generally a fusion of the nucleoli takes place in zygotene, but sometimes a nucleolus may degenerate. Towards late zygotene, there is a tendency of the chromosomes to collapse to one side and this is considered to be a synizetic phase. The nucleolus is pressed to one side and becomes vacuolated, the outer rind collapsing into a discoid structure which stains very darkly. 4. At the "phase of elongation" the four-strand stage cannot be recognized, but the chromosomes appear beaded. Instead of contracting, the chromosomes elongate and become slender. The nucleolus is ultimately lost during this stage. 5. In diplotene and diakinesis the chromosomes contract very much. About eight bivalents may be counted at this stage, and eight is believed to represent the haploid number in this rust. The nuclear membrane is lost at this stage and the chromosomes lie in the nuclear vacuole. The spindle is intra-nuclear and the chromosomes become attached to it at various places. The spindle axis may be longitudinal or oblique. The presence of a centrosome is left open to question. 6. The anaphase is brief, at which time the paired chromosomes are believed to disjoin and eight pass to each pole. Astral rays are very long at this stage and sometimes intersect at the middle of the basidium. 7. The cell wall probably arises by a lateral coalescence of vacuoles. 8. There is no resting phase between the first and second meiotic divisions. The spindle of the second division may be oriented in any conceivable manner, and depending upon this orientation the septa are variously arranged. Metaphase and anaphase are similar to the first division except that the spindle is much shorter. 9. One further division takes place in the basidiospore. 10. The possible relationship of this rust with the jelly fungi on the one hand and the Ascomycetes on the other has been discussed. The writer is very grateful to Dr. Lindsay S. Olive of Columbia University, New York City, for reviewing the manuscript. To Prof. P. Maheshwari of the University of Delhi and Dr. R. N. Tandon of the University of Allahabad, the writer owes a debt of gratitude for their constant encouragement and helpful advice. The writer also takes this opportunity to thank Mr. J. S. Agrawal of the Department of Botany for his unfailing help in many ways.
10.2307/2996918|Using trunk heights as a predictor of the ability to produce reproductive structures, the single population of Cycas armstrongii Miq. sampled for this trait appeared to contain a substantial number of "mature" but non-reproductive individuals for the two pollination episodes evident during the period of study. While no estimate of this number was attempted, these observations are consistent with those on other cycads where mature plants may "rest" between successive reproductive episodes. There is no evidence of a difference in size of reproductive females compared with males. The small weevil Ulomoides xamiaphila (Cart.) and an as yet undescribed genus of the subfamily Cossoninae (Curculionidae) were collected from male cones. Their role in the pollination of this cycad, if any, is unclear. Although C. armstrongii has been termed deciduous, leaf fall appears to be irregular within a population and to be accelerated in relatively short plants by fire damage. Leaf fall and production of new leaves after natural or fire-induced defoliation are not synchronized among individuals within a population.
10.2307/2996974|Twenty-one species of Sphagnum are presently known to occur in Delaware. Twelve of these have not previously been reported for Delaware; included in this group are S. flavicomans and S. russowii. Primarily because of the lack of suitable habitats, seventeen species (81% of the total) are rare in the state. Little historical data exist for Sphagnum in Delaware, with most collections having been made since 1960.
10.2307/2995958|Continued work in the Lake Champlain Valley of New York and Vermont has resulted in 22 new stations for rare native or introduced plants, five of which are new northeastern range extensions
10.2307/2996304|Should a platyopuntia expend all aerolar meristems in flower production, no new cladodes could be produced, and further reproductive effort and vegetative growth would cease. To investigate the trade-off between flower and cladode production, the numbers of flowers, fruits, and cladodes were monitored for 4 years on 30 Opuntia engelmannii Salm-Dyck. plants on Tumamoc Hill, Tucson, Arizona. Plant size controlled the number of flowers initiated each spring. The proportion of flowers that developed (i.e., did not abort) was perhaps determined by December-February rainfall in the months before bloom, with more being developed in the wettest years. Models based on different ratios of initiated cladodes to initiated flowers demonstrated that continued high investment in flowers and fruits would eventually terminate reproduction altogether; therefore periods of high sexual reproduction should alternate with periods of high vegetative growth. In the first 3 years of this study, the ratio of new cladodes to initiated flowers was low, showing a high investment in sexual reproduction. As suggested by the model, the population recouped this investment in the fourth year, when the number of new cladodes was nearly 3 times the 1992-1994 mean, and the number of initiated flowers was only 73% of the 3-year mean.
10.2307/2996001|Because the holotype of Tylostoma gracile White is missing, the nature of that species has been a matter of concern to scientists studying the genus A recently collected specimen resembled both Tylostoma gracile and Tylostoma cretaceum Long, and a comparison of the three indicates that they are probably the same species The new collection is designated as the neotype of Tylostoma gracile
10.2307/2483797|By means of paper chromatography, spectrophotometry, and chemical tests, the anthocyanin of autumn leaves of Japanese barberry (Berberis Thunbergii DC) has been identified as cyanidine 3-glucoside.
10.2307/2484448|The response of ground cover vegetation to prescribed fire was evaluated in relation to the life form of individual species. Chamaephytes were most severely affected by fire. Hemicryptophytes varied in their response and geophytes best survived the prescribed burn. One therophyte (Erechtites hieracifolia) appeared only after burning. Within each life form group variability existed in the modes of regeneration and recovery after burning. Individual species tended to demonstrate either (1) a favorable (rapid regeneration through vegetative reproduction, or through the germination of seed), (2) an unfavorable (slow recovery; regeneration slow and incomplete after one growing season following burning) or (3) neutral response (plants unaffected by burning) to fire.
10.2307/2482444|2. The average total chlorophyll content was 1.69 mg./gm. fresh weight, consisting of 1.16 mg./gm. chlorophyll a and 0.53 mg./gm. chlorophyll b. 1. The chlorophyll a and chlorophyll b content of 43 species of ferns and fern allies has been determined by a spectrophotometric method. 3. The percentage of chlorophyll a varied from 62.4 to 72.3 per cent, and averaged 68.6 per cent. 4. The quantities of chlorophylls, and the proportion of chlorophylls a and b in the ferns and fern allies are comparable to those found in higher plants.
10.2307/2483430|Descriptions of the anatomy of mycorrhizae of Acer iubrum L., Fagus grandifolia Ehrh, Ilex opaca Ait., Liquidambar styraciflua L, Liriodendron tulipifera L., Pinus virginiana Mill., Quercus lobata Nee, and Ulmus americana L. are presented along with details of fixing, dehydrating, and staining the specimens. Mycorrhizae of Q. lobata and Liquidambar styraciflua required a different staining procedure than the other specimens. P virginiana, F. grandifolia, and Q. lobata were found to be ectotrophic, while I. opaca, Liriodendron tulipifera, Liquidambar styraciflua, A. rubrum, and U. americana were endotrophic.
10.2307/2997091|Vegetation, seed banks, and post-disturbance vegetation were compared for a chronosequence of five stands in order to interpret succession mechanisms. With increasing stand age, the species composition of vegetation, seed banks, and post-disturbance vegetation generally diverged. Also, vegetation was more similar with post-disturbance vegetation than with seed banks in the forest stages. These findings are related to changes in the proportions of life-history types during succession, which, as noted in other studies, are accompanied by decreases in seed production and viability and increases in vegetative reproduction. No successional stage had a seed bank or post-disturbance vegetation with most of the common species from the undisturbed vegetation of all stages. This and reanalysis of other studies on similar seres document that the "initial floristic composition" model of succession cannot account for all major stages of a successional sequence. Rather, the seeds and vegetative propagules present in old-field communities may be capable of regenerating stages from the pioneer through the age of the community disturbed but not older stages, and forests cannot regenerate a series of old-field stages but are capable of directly regenerating themselves through vegetative reproduction.
10.2307/2484061|Micro- and mega-sporogenesis and gametogenesis are described for Downingia bacigalupii Weiler with comparisons made with two other species of the genus (D. pulchella (Lindl.) Torr. and D. humilis Greene). Microsporogenesis begins when stamens are approximately 1 mm in length and proceeds in a basipetal direction in each sporangium. Delimitation of microspores is simultaneous, resulting in a tetrahedral spore arrangement. In D. bacigalupii, pollen is released in the two-celled condition and division of the generative cell occurs as the pollen tube grows down the style. This feature was not determined for the other two species. The ovules of all three species are anatropous, unitegmic and tenuinucellate with a single, hypodermal archesporial cell which functions directly as the megasporocyte. Meiotic division of the megasporocyte results in the formation of a linear tetrad of megaspores and determination of the chalazal position of the functional megaspore is correlated with inequalities of cytokinesis of the megasporocyte and daughter dyad cells. Embryo-sac development is of the monosporic, Polygonum type and at maturity the megagametophyte is seven-celled, but exhibits early degeneration of its antipodals and pre-fertilization fusion of polar nuclei. Interspecific comparisons of the structure of mature megagametophytes of Downingia reveal marked differences in size which may be of taxonomic significance for the investigated species of this genus.
10.2307/2996658|Seed set was recorded following an artificial pollination program and floral emasculation of cultivated plants of the three floral morphs of the tristylous Decodon verticillatus originating in North Carolina. These manipulations were aimed at determining the possible presence and nature of an incompatibility system associated with tristyly in this species. Legitimate and illegitimate pollinations all resulted in high levels of seed production, indicating that an incompatibility system is absent or vestigial in the plants examined. Emasculated flowers of the three morphs commonly produced seeds, with emasculated Shorts producing as many seeds per flower as legitimately pollinated Shorts. This seed production appears to result from self-pollination prior to anthesis. Vegetative reproduction is also common in this species. A single population sampled in Massachusetts yielded 67 Longs, 47 Mids, and three Shorts.
10.2307/2996991|A standard leaf color classification system was used to describe five progressive stages of autumn senescence for leaves of the deciduous quaking aspen Populus tremuloides Michx. For five years, during the period 1981 to 1989, leaves of each senescence stage, from full green to full yellow, were assayed quantitatively for total chlorophyll, for chlorophylls a and b as well as for the specific activities of malate dehydrogenase, succinate dehydrogenase and fumarate hydratase. As senescence progressed the total chlorophyll decreased by 99%, from a mean of 24.2 mg/g leaf to 0.226 mg/g leaf, whereas the chlorophyll a:b ratio increased during each progressive stage, a condition not reported previously for deciduous species. Senescence was accompanied by large decreases in specific activities of malate dehydrogenase and fumarate hydratase, and by a large increase in K
10.2307/2483508|Thirty-four hand-emasculated A. scribneri rioters exposed to E. junceus pollen yielded three shriveled seeds, two of which germinated and proved to be hybrids. The hybrid plants were morphologically intermediate between the parents but favored A. scribneri in overall appearance. The E. junceus parent, 2n =14, was cytologically regular, as was the tetraploid A. scribneri parent, 2n = 28. No chromosome pairing was observed in the hybrids, 2n = 21. Meiotic cells were unusually scarce in the hybrids and were characterized by atypical cytoplasmic cleavages which gave rise to daughter cells that differed widely in size and chromosome number. The daughter cells developed directly into pollen grains of variable sizes without passing through the wellrecognized quartet stage. All pollen was shriveled and non-staining, and the hybrids were totally sterile. Absence of chromosome pairing in the hybrids indicates that A. scribneri is a strict allotetraploid and that A. scribneri and E. junceus contain no chromosomes in common.
10.2307/2482393|1. The micropylar end of the nucellus of the lima bean is partially disintegrated at the time of flowering. 2. After syngamy, chalazal extension of the embryo sac almost completely obliterates the remainder of the nucellus within a two week period. 3. The endosperm is parietal and free nuclear during the first few days after fertilization. It becomes cellular about the embryo early and remains cellular around this structure during further development. 4. The cellular endosperm is separated from a parietal, free nuclear, chalazal region of endosperm by a membrane, over the cotyledons, which is formed about 10 days after fertilization. 5. The free nuclear endosperm gradually is resorbed as the embryo fills the cavity within the seed coat. 6. Although some endosperm tissue remains distinct in the radicle pocket region of the near-mature seed, the remainder of the cellular endosperm disappears during growth.
10.2307/2484868|Morphological and anatomical studies of seven genera of the grass tribe Oryzeae show those with unisexual flowers to represent two distinct phyletic lines. Members of the new subtribe Luziolinae (Zizaniopsis and Luziola sens. lat.) have a thickened, often loose, pericarp surrounding the seeds, apically exserted styles, embryo formula F+FP, embryos with bilobed, fused epiblasts, and a basic chromosome number of x=12. The fruit is termed an achene rather than a caryopsis. The subtribe Zizaniinae (reduced to one genus, Zizania) has long cylindrical caryopses with fused pericarp, laterally exserted stigmas, embryo formula F+PP, embryos with narrow, free epiblasts and very long scutellums, and a chromosome number of n=15 or 17. Aerenchyma in leaf sheaths of Zizania forms numerous septae, but in Zizaniopsis and Luziola forms amorphous masses. Characteristics of some members of the subtribe Oryzinae having bisexual flowers (Oryza, Leersia, and Porteresia) are compared with those of the other two subtribes. Hydrochloa is placed in synonymy under Luziola.
10.2307/2484592|Eichhornia crassipes exhibits two floral forms: the long- and midstyled forms of a tristylous system. An investigation of these two floral forms revealed the correlation between pollen size and stamen length frequently found in heterostylous taxa and possible indications of a weak self-incompability system. This study supports earlier suggestions that reproduction in this species is almost wholly asexual.
10.2307/2997199|The vascular flora consists of 82 families, 232 genera, and 380 species of which 253 are native. Flowering plants (Division Magnoliophyta or Anthophyta) form the bulk of the station's flora. There are 75 families, 220 genera, and 362 species. Dicots (Class Magnoliatae) account for 64 families, 170 genera, and 281 species. Monocots (Class Liliatae) account for 11 families, 50 genera, and 81 species. There are only 4 conifer (Division Pinophyta) species, in 2 genera, and 2 families. Ferns (Division Polypodiophyta) comprise 4 families, 9 genera, and 11 species. Club-mosses (Division Lycopodophyta) are the only other group of spore-bearing vascular plants present; they comprise 1 family, 1 genus, with 3 species. Twenty-four plants have been designated as rare or threatened in New York State (Clemants 1986; Mitchell 1986).
10.2307/2996541|Rates of mineral element leaching from plants subjected to simulated acid rain were determined for plants from a forest succession Early successional plants were the herbs Erechtites hieracifolia and Erigeron canadensis and the early successional shrub-tree was Robinia pseudo-acacia Later successional species were Pinus strobus, Carya illinoensis, Liriodendron tulipifera, Quercus prinus, Acer rubrum and Cornus florida Simulated rain consisted of deionized water plus a salt and an acid component to produce pH values of 5 5, 4 5, 3 5 and 2 5 Solutions were applied through a raindrop simulator at 0 9 cm/hr for 10 periods of 1 hr each Leachate from the leaves was collected and analyzed for NH
10.2307/2482531|Specimens belonging to the genera Sporocarpon (Williamson) Hutchinson, Dubiocarpon Hutchinson, and Mycocarpon Hutchinson are described from Kansas coal balls from the Pennsylvanian system. Mycocarpon ornatus, M. bimuratus, M. flexus, and Sporocarpon cognatus are described as new species. Sporocarpon asteroides, Dubiocarpon compactum, and Dubiocarpon elegans were also found. The suggested fungal-like nature of these conceptacles is reaffirmed.
10.2307/2484665|Artificial hybridization experiments involving three tropical American species of Ruellia: R. tuberosa, R. nudiflora, and R. brittoniana, have resulted in the formation of a number of strictly cleistogamous species-hybrids in contrast to the normally chasmogamic-cleistogamic parent species. Pollen fertility and fruit formation in the hybrids were low, but were adequate for the production of limited numbers of viable seeds. Although experimental factors affect reproductive patterns in Ruellia, the prevailing reproductive system appears to be under genomic control.
10.2307/2484044|The native Hawaiian flora is analyzed by genera for probable method of arrival of ancestral immigrants, and these data are listed in detail and discussed. Fruit and seed morphology are used as evidence for mode of dispersal interpreted in the light of known dispersal methods. Modes of arrival on the Hawaiian islands are computed as percentages, and similar percentages are presented for angiosperms of other Pacific oceanic islands and archipelagos. These data show that ecology of recipient island is much more important than distance in determining modes of successful transport. On high islands, internal transport by birds is of prime importance, and decreases only slightly with increased distance. On atolls, oceanic drift is of overwhelming importance. Adherence to feathers by barbed or bristly seeds or fruits is of maximum importance on dry volcanic islands. Transport of seeds by air flotation decreases sharply with distance, and thus is responsible for only a few genera on the Hawaiian Islands. To account for floras of oceanic islands, no factors not currently operative seem necessary. Shore birds are cited as a particularly likely vector for transport of fleshy-fruited plant species. Reasons are given for absence of South Pacific drift species in the North Pacific. The great similarity between floras and faunas of the Pacific oceanic islands and those of Mascarene oceanic islands derives from the fact that islands in both the Pacific and Indian oceans have been populated by those groups from Indo-Malaysia capable of long-distance dispersal. The implications of the present data for inter-continental and intracontinental dispersal are discussed, and the implications for hypotheses of continental drift are explored.
10.2307/2482936|Induced morphological mutants of Polysphondylium violaceum were used in an attempt to study the genetics of this species. Heterocytosis occurred in most paired combinations of the different mutant and wild-type cultures. In one case heterocytosis was coupled with synergism. Recombinant types were not recovered. The possible rare occurrence of a sexual event is discussed.
10.2307/2484115|Samples of terricolous cryptogams were collected from strip-mined and unstripped vegetated sites located in a twenty-year-old abandoned surface coal mining area in eastern Ohio. These samples were analyzed by emission spectrophotometry for total P, K, Ca, and Mg content. Vascular cryptogams contained high amounts of K when compared to the other non-fungal species sampled. Mosses, particularly those species collected from non-stripped sites, exhibited relatively high levels of Ca. The terricolous basidiomycetes Clavaria corniculata and Scleroderma citrinum contained the highest levels of P and K, but showed little accumulation of Ca or Mg. Terricolous lichens exhibited low levels of all elements. Nutrient levels of plant species common to both stripped and unstripped vegetated sites were generally higher in those plants from non-stripped areas. The importance of some terricolous cryptogam species with regard to nutrient cycling in areas where essential nutrients may occur in limited quantities is discussed.
10.2307/2996385|Pleuridium venezuelanum is described as a new species from the Andes of Venezuela. Its unique features are the entire-margined lower leaves, capsules that are 550 m long and spores 20-23 m in diameter. Pleuridium mexicanum Card. is considered to be the closest ally of the new species. An older synonym of Cardot's species may be the austral P. nervosum (Hook.) Mitt.
10.2307/2484087|The taxonomic history of Ponthieva racemosa (Walt.) Mohr and Ponthieva brittonae is reviewed. Ponthieva brittonae is reinstated to its proper specific status.
10.2307/2481980|1. Three representatives of Physalis occur in West Africa: P. angulata L. (for five collections, 2n = 48 or n = 24), P. peruviana L. (for one collection, 2n = 48), and P. divaricata (for three collections, 2n = 24 or n = 12). 2. That similar and different chromosome reports are in the literature for P. angulata and P. peruviana is probably indicative of faulty taxonomic determination. These three representatives of Physalis are usually weeds in West Africa, but in some instances plants may be cultivated.
10.2307/2482203|A hitherto unreported primitive plasmodium, Reticulomyxa flosa, has been discovered, which has among others the following characteristics and habits: 1. Aquatic and semiaquatic (fresh water), multiform, white plasmodium, without wall or other permanently formed membrane, remaining fairly stationary while vegetating, surrounded by an intricate network of anastomosing, filose pseudopodia arising from any point on the surface of plasmodium and extending to as much as ten times its diameter in search of food. 2. Protoplasm very active, finely and coarsely granular, undifferentiated into ecto- and endoplasm, multinucleate, vacuoles (noncontractile), not surviving slow desiccation. 3. Streaming in pseudopodia a simultaneous two-way or sleeve-type of flow; in central portion, which is often a thin broad sheet of protoplasm, many lines of flow alternately opposed and irreversible. 4. Plasmodium periodically clears itself of extraneous matter, moves to a new site, and undergoes longitudinal fission, usually resulting in three daughter plasmodia. Mature plasmodia seemingly disperse sporelike bodies when transferred to a fresh container of water, but the nature of reproduction other than by fission only vaguely understood at present. 5. Under water, plasmodial activities arrested both when subjected to lowered temperature and when cultured with certain algae. 6. Similarities to species of Myxomycetes and Foraminifera pointed out. Close affinity with certain species of Proteomyxa strongly suspected.
10.2307/2996757|Typical and anomalous secondary growth are reported in arborescent species of New World Ipomoea (Convolvulaceae). Concentric rings of included phloem derived from successive cambia characterize the anomalous woody growth occurring in L murucoides and related species. Typical secondary growth occurs in I. carnea ssp. fistulosa. Anatomical data provide additional evidence that the arborescent habit in Ipomoea has been derived at least twice through distantly related vining prototypes.
10.2307/2996640|Population dynamics and growth of balsam fir were measured in spruce-fir stands at 900 and 1100 m on Whiteface Mountain in 1985 to characterize the behavior of fir where red spruce decline was evident. The basal area increment of overstory balsam fir was determined using increment core analysis. No synchronous mortality of balsam fir was found at either elevation, and survivorship patterns were similar to those found in an earlier study at low elevation in Ontario. Prior to 1950, greater 5-yr mean basal area increment in all age classes at 1100 m compared to that at 900 m was related to greater solar radiation received at the higher elevation site. After 1950, dramatic increases in basal area increment occurred at 900 m following apparent competitive release after a severe windstorm. As a result, higher sustained basal area increment occurred at 900 m than at 1100 m. Unlike red spruce, growth of balsam fir has not shown severe growth decline. Growth reductions in balsam fir were age-related, with only the older trees experiencing basal area increment reduction during 1960-1985.
10.2307/2484398|Soil moisture, nutrient content, structure and aeration do not appear to limit the distribution of adult black willows in Oklahoma. Instead, the species appears to be limited by the requirements for seed germination and seedling establishment which are met on moist or wet soil. These conditions usually exist only around a permanent source of water where the soil remains wet for an extended period As determined by pot tests, established plants do not have a high moisture requirement and hence the species could survive in a bioader range of environmental conditions than it is restricted to by its seedlings.
10.2307/2484760|Fifty diverse collections of the commonly recognized tetraploid New World cotton species, G. barbadense, G. hirsutum, and G. tomentosum from South and Central America and the Caribbean and Pacific Islands gave identical seed protein electrophoretic patterns. Among 44 collections of the Mexican tetraploid G. palmeri, included in G. hirsutum, 6 gave patterns like that of the recognized species, while 38 gave a uniform but different pattern. The pattern of the commonly recognized species was simulated by electrophoresis of a mixture (1:1) of protein extracts from the Old World diploid cotton G. herbaceum (AA) and one of several wild American diploids (DD) including the Peruvian G. raimondii and the Mexican G. lobatum and G. laxum. The palmeri pattern was simulated by a protein mixture (1:1) from G. herbaceum (AA) and the wild Mexican G. trilobum (DD). Other indigenous Mexican cultigens suggested that G. hirsutum may have originated from more than one primary amphiploid including G. palmeri (AADD) and one or more AADD types. Transitional forms between indigenous cultigens and the cultivated G. hirsutum are abundant in southern Mexico, and intermediate forms between G. hirsutum and G. barbadense are widespread under cultivation. The protein pattern and the dispersion of morphological types favor the concept that G. barbadense (AADD) originated in northern South America from G. herbaceum X G. raimondii and that the cultivated races of G. hirsutum represent various degrees of introgression involving G. barbadense and the Mexican hirsutum complex.
10.2307/2482446|1. In vivo studies of Ceratiomyxa fruticulosa from spore to fusion of swarm cells were made. For several months the spores germinated readily after 24 hours in water. In many preparations all spores germinated, and development was almost synchronous throughout the period of observation. 2. Germination was observed to occur by generalized softening and gradual disappearance of the spore wall. No active emergence of the protoplast from the spore case was observed. 3. Hyaline spore case ghosts were frequently observed. 4. Gilbert's "thread" phase was not observed. 5. No two-part condition of the protoplast after it emerges from the spore case was observed. At its first division the protoplast separates into four globose segments, forming a tetrad. 6. Each segment of the tetrad divides, producing the eight members of the octette. These are globose and soon become flagellated and swim away. They are single and globose as they disperse. 7. The flagellated swarm cells gradually elongate so that at the end of 30-60 minutes they have assumed the typical comma shape of a Myxomycete swarm cell. 8. Careful examination of a limited area in a sealed wet mount showed no biflagellate forms at this stage, and all spores present had germinated. 9. Twelve hours later the same limited area of the wet mount showed many biflagellate forms. These could be seen to be pairs of individual swarm cells which pulled together and drew apart repeatedly over a period of 4-6 hours. During this process the pair were connected only by a thread as they pulled apart and after a time fused into a common elongate mass with one central vacuole during the periods when they had pulled together. 10. Gradually one member of the pair could be seen to be becoming larger while the other became progressively smaller. Finally only the flagellum of the smaller partner remained outside the common mass. 11. No division of swarm cells was observed. 12. Slight drying of the preparation caused rounding up of the fused swarm cells and an increase in their refractivity. In this condition two dense bodies having the appearance of nuclei were clearly visible within the cytoplasm. 13. This dicaryotic condition persisted for at least 24 hours.
10.2307/2995897|An old field plant community containing as dominants the perennial species Solidago graminifolia and Solidago juncea was selected as the study community. This community received three levels (56, 112, and 224 kg/ha) of nitrogen fertilizer and was observed for two growing seasons after the nitrogen application Plant size (weight, stem height, number of leaves and stem diameter) of S graminifolia and S juncea on nitrogen treatment plots increased significantly during the year of fertilizer application (Year 1) and only in S graminifolia during the following year (Year 2) During Year 1, allocation of above ground dry matter to reproductive structures increased by approximately 8% in S juncea, but no increase was observed in S graminifolia. Conversely, in Year 2, S graminifolia displayed a 13% increase in reproductive allocation but S juncea had no significant allocational changes S graminifolia displayed a three-fold increase in density (number of stems per 0.25m
10.2307/2997031|The woody and herbaceous vegetation of 23 tidal freshwater swamps was sampled along the Pamunkey River, a tributary of the York River (a subestuary of Chesapeake Bay). Tidally driven water level fluctuations were monitored and recorded in selected swamps. Four vegetative life-forms were examined and ordinated with Detrended Correspondence Analysis: trees (canopy and sapling sized), woody subcanopy (shrubs and understory trees), vines, and herbs. Species distribution patterns were compared in relation to edaphic factors, a flooding index, and duration of flooding in the root zone. On the basis of the canopy composition, two tidal swamp communities were found, both subjected to a tidally forced hydroperiod regime within the upper 15 cm of their root zones, the approximate height of the hummocks. Nyssa biflora-Fraxinus spp. dominated swamps are best developed toward the more downriver reaches in the wetter sites, which contain more hollows, a higher organic matter content, and higher calcium levels. In contrast, Acer rubrum-Liquidambar styraciflua-Nyssa biflora dominated swamps are more common throughout the mid- to upriver reaches at less wet sites with lower organic matter and calcium levels. Taxodium distichum was found to co-dominate in two swamps that may represent relic conditions for the wetter sites. Although low in canopy diversity, the tidal swamps are floristically rich in herbaceous and subcanopy species, ranking them among the most speciose in temperate North America. The microtopographic complexity (the hummocks vs. hollows pattern) appeared to be strongly related to species distribution patterns in the canopy, vine, and herbaceous strata. Although the ordinations segregated canopy and herbaceous strata similarly, the woody subcanopy did not segregate into the same two communities established by the canopy and herb strata, suggesting that the canopy may be partitioning different resources than the woody subcanopy.
10.2307/2996523|Trees in a savannah and adjacent closed forest in the Midwestern United States had a differential response to a prescribed burn. Forest trees suffered heavy mortality (47.6%) within three years after the burn. In contrast, trees in the savannah suffered essentially no fire damage. Reduced availability of fuel is one factor considered to be of significance to survival of savannah trees.
10.2307/2996307|Recent collections and previously overlooked older collections have extended the known range of common milkweed to South Carolina, Georgia, and Louisiana. Its occurrence in areas far south of 35<sup></sup>N latitude, the limit recorded by Woodson (1954), suggests that A. syriaca is rapidly extending its range southward along highways and railways. From such sites in the vanguard of its advance, common milkweed then disperses locally to saturate appropriate open sites.
10.2307/2483860|Fungal flora of leaves of Triticum aestivum L. was investigated. The phyllosphere and phylloplane regions of green and yellow leaves exhibited variation in the mycoflora. The individual species and their relative amounts varied with the age of the host plant.
10.2307/2483146|Specimens of Hierochloe odorata having four florets per spikelet rather than the usual three were collected in Iceland. In these plants the first and second florets are staminate; the third and fourth are perfect. Other distinctions are the presence of three stamens in the third floret rather than the usual two and the reduced size of the fourth floret. In the classification of grasses the presence in the Phalarideae of a perfect floret subtended by wholly or partially sterile florets has been a puzzle. The Phalarideae clearly are Festucoid in most characteristics; however the spikelets resemble the Panicoid type. It is suggested that the structures of the spikelets herein described reveal their true Festucoid nature.
10.2307/2484100|Community composition and environmental responses of native populations of Andropogon gerardi and A. scoparius in the Red River Valley in North Dakota and Minnesota are described. These are two of the most important species in regions of native tallgrass prairie in the United States. Based on a consideration of relative frequency and relative density, the dominant associates of the two bluestems are Poa pratensis, Stipa spartea, Spartina pectinata and Panicum virgatum. An ordination of 47 quadrats resulted in a clustering of prairie samples distinct from those located in a forest-prairie transition zone. Variations in community composition appear to be related to such habitat features as topography and soil characteristics (rooting depth, available water capacity, replaceable major cations and EDTA-extractable trace elements). Generally, the prairie sites are high in major and trace elements. A comparison with Wiscousin populations reveals that the Red River Valley bluestems are lower in foliar concentrations of Ca, Mg, K, Mn and Zn but higher in Cu levels. Populations of A. gerardi have a better growth form on well drained, sandy habitats than on clay loams and clays. Biomass data of the two bluestem communities recorded biweekly throughout the growing season reveal that peak biomass of A. gerardi was 441 g/m<sup>2</sup> with a mean net productivity rate of 4.8 g/m<sup>2</sup>/day, and peak biomass of A. scoparius was 231 gm/m<sup>2</sup>, with a mean rate of net productivity of 6 g/m<sup>2</sup>/day.
10.2307/2484570|The position of 33 plant species in relation to slope location through time was determined on the Morro Bay sand spit. Dominance values of 16 species were defined via relative density, frequency, and multiple range analysis. Mesembryanthemum chilense, Croton californicus, Haplopappus ericoides, Dudleya caespitosa and Corethrogyne leucophylla are dominant species in this ecosystem. Ridge and leeward transects were similar in numbers of dominant species, whereas qualitative differences are readily apparent in the case of dominant species on wind-exposed slopes. Ridge areas are dissected by blowouts affording an intracommunal ecotone where Achillea millefolium is prevalent. Decumbent succulent herbs dominate windward slopes with the hillock formers Lupinus chamissonis, Abronia maritima, and Cakile maritima being important in dune formation and stabilization. Flowering periods, sociability, and growth habits are also discussed.
10.2307/2997012|The first New York State record for Lespedeza striata (Thunb.) Hook. & Arn. is reported from Suffolk County, Long Island. An historical account of the species' introduction to North America and subsequent migration is presented. Morphological characters distinguishing L. striata from the superficially similar L. stipulacea Maxim. are also presented.
10.2307/2484896|Two disjunct stands of Quercus prinus in southern Illinois were sampled before, and 1 and 3 years following clearcutting to quantify forest regrowth. The size-class structure of preharvest stands was all-sized (aged). Floristic composition of the stands did not change greatly 3 years following cutting. Most arboreal species are successfully reproducing either through advance or sprout regeneration. Exceptions to this are Quercus rubra, and some Carya species. Quercus prinus, in particular, is very successfully reproducing and shows no tendency to be eliminated or reduced by timber harvesting at the northwestern margin of its distribution.
10.2307/2483331|The genus Linum in North America can be divided into three infrageneric groups. The blue-flowered group, consisting of two species, is believed to have entered the continent from Eurasia, the white-flowered L. catharticum from Europe. The yellow-flowered species comprise the largest group in North America. Its thirty-six species may be divided into five well-defined subgroups or species complexes. The L. schiedeanum complex, presently centered in east-central Mexico, is believed to be the most primitive. Three evolutionary sequences, leading to the L. virginianum complex of eastern North America and the L. neo-mexicanum and L. rigidum complexes of western North America, are described. The last includes the most highly specialized species of the genus on the continent. They might easily be placed in a separate genus, but species such as L. rupestre, L. sulcatum and L. subteres appear to bridge the gap. The occurrence in Africa of some species very similar to L. schiedeanum suggests that the yellow-flowered group may have had its origin among Old World plants.
10.2307/2481946|1. Fertile tips of Osmunda regalis fronds containing meiotic stages in sporogenesis were collected, fixed for mitochondrial preservation, sectioned at 2-3 micra and stained with iron hematoxylin. 2. Study of these sections indicated that through interphase I, the behavior of the cytoplasmic inclusions is essentially like that previously observed in Nephrodium and Onoclea. 3. Sections of later stages show that in Osmunda regalis, the compact plate of inclusions characteristic of interphase I is, by folding and by formation of two additional plates, converted into a 6-partite figure, dividing the spore mother cell into four tetrahedrally arranged spores. The manner in which this is accomplished is described. 4. Onoclea and Osmunda are compared and discussed. The difference in the kinetics of the cytoplasmic inclusions during sporogenesis in these species, and the relation of this to the type of quartet produced, suggest an inherent tendency present in the cytoplasm of the spore mother cell, which tendency evidences itself prior to the completion of cytokinesis.
10.2307/2484117|Study of eighteen populations of perennial species of Sedum in Mexico in 1976 and 1977 indicates that four species, usually conceived as monotypic, are aggregates, comprising two or more subspecies; three populations belong to previously undescribed species; and the principal mode of reproduction is important in determining the structure and variation of populations. The four aggregate species, with the number of included subspecies and the names of the new subspecies, are: Sedum calcicola-2, ssp. desertorum in southern Nuevo Leon; S. guadalajaranum-2, ssp. viridifolium in Zacatecas; S. greggii-2, ssp. angustifolium in Jalisco; and S. parvum-3, ssp. dendroides in San Luis Potosi and ssp. nanifolium in Tamaulipas, Nuevo Leon, Coahuila, and Texas. The new species are Sedum multiflorum-Jalisco, S. reptans-San Luis Potosi and Queretaro, and S. trichromum-Durango. Vegetative reproduction is important in the spread of each of these species. Plantlets develop readily from detached leaves of S. calcicola, S. greggii, S. multiflorum, and S. trichromum. Broken pieces of stems are important in the propagation of S. reptans and S. parvum, and both pieces of stem and tubers in the spread of S. guadalajaranum. The circumstance leads to a strongly aggregated pattern of distribution, with many plants with the same genotypes growing in close proximity.
10.2307/2995954|The 44 species and 1 variety of Sphagnum that occur in New Jersey represent a remarkably diverse flora, and include 10 species and 1 variety at the limits of their natural ranges (southern limit: S. angermanicum, S austinii, S centrale, S contortum, S. flavicomans, S platyphyllum, S riparium, S teres; northern limit: S. carolinianum, S macrophyllum var. floridanum, S perichaetiale). A major difference exists between the Sphagnum vegetation of the glaciated region of northern New Jersey and that of the coastal plain of southen New Jersey, with 15 species being limited to the former area and 11 species and 1 variety restricted to the latter. A key is given for the sections and for the species and the habitat and distribution of the species are presented.
10.2307/2996279|Different aged trees of singleleaf pinyon (Pinus monophylla Torr. and Frem.) provided a chronosequence of undergrowth response to increasing tree dominance. Undergrowth composition and distribution around the tree stem changed as trees increased in size. Tree-induced microhabitats created a mosaic of undergrowth species groups each with their own sere. Individual undergrowth species response to tree effects varied with tree size, topographic aspect, and slope position relative to the tree stem. Succession was more a plant-by-plant process than a species population phenomena, as plants of the same species were enhanced or debilitated during the same time period depending on the plants' position relative to the tree crown. Existing undergrowth reorganized itself to occupy the evolving tree-induced microhabitats rather than new microhabitats being occupied by invader species.
10.2307/2484958|The caloric, lipid and ash contents were determined for roots of Delphinium virescens Nutt. collected on 15 dates beginning 9 July 1970 and ending 4 August 1971. Good correlation was found between phenology and caloric and lipid contents. Caloric values (cal/gm ash-free oven dry wt) were highest (4,892) during the latter half of dormancy in August and September and lowest (4,500) during flowering and seed set in May. Lipid content (% ash-free oven dry wt) was highest (11.4) during the latter half of dormancy and lowest (6.8) in late March and early April between flower bud formation and bolting. Ash content throughout the year varied from 13.2 to 4.7% oven dry wt.
10.2307/2995974|A comparative study of the leaf flavonoids of the eight species of Vernonia series Flexuosae was performed to help clarify their relationships. Structurally the 25 flavonoids detected were based on flavones and flavonols. The chemical data supported the classification of the series Flexuosae based on macromorphology. Each species contained its own particular combination of flavonoids but all taxa were found to share compounds in the following flavonoid groups: apigenin and luteolin 6- and 8-C-glycosides, apigenin and luteolin 7-O-glycosides and kaempferol and quercetin 3-O-glycosides. A reductionary trend in flavonoid evolution is suggested for series Flexuosae.
10.2307/2996765|The Plant World, founded in 1897, passed through several changes in ownership and emphasis during its 23 years, first as a privately published botanical magazine, then as the house organ of the Wild Flower Preservation Society, and finally as an unofficial publication of the Desert Laboratory of the Carnegie Institution of Washington in Tucson, Arizona. In 1911 Forrest Shreve became the eighth and final editor of the Plant World. Under his management, it became a respected scientific journal with a strong emphasis on plant ecology and physiology. The Ecological Society of America acquired the Plant World in 1920 and continued publication underthe title Ecology
10.2307/2483788|The leaf blade epidermis of twelve populations of the Danthonia sericea (Gramineae) complex was examined. Populations without the villous sheaths and backs of lemmas had stomata on the adaxial surface only and occupied bogs, seepage areas, and stream borders. Pubescent populations had stomata on both surfaces and occupied well-drained sites. Two intermediate populations were found-a glabrous population with stomata on both surfaces and a pubescent population that was not as villous as other populations having that character. All populations examined had dumbbell-shaped silica cells, bicellular and unicellular microhairs, and undulate-walled long cells. Stomatal size as a ploidy level indicator disclosed no apparent difference in chromosome number among populations occupying markedly different ecological habitats.
10.2307/2483751|Corings of sediments taken at different depths from African lakes show that (1) in such sites many kinds of fungi occur universally; (2) in sediments, conditions are favorable for spore preservation for thousands of years; (3) the identification of such fungi is attended with enormous difficulty; (4) fungus spores, just as is the case with pollen, constitute documentary evidence of vegetational changes; and (5) the results of analyses of spores occurring in sediments might be used to supplement pollen analyses.
10.2307/2482592|1. Botrychium minganense Victorin (Ophioglossaceae) was described in 1927. It was subsequently reduced to the status of a variety, and then a form, of the nearly cosmopolitan B. lunaria (L.) Sw. Plants from California as well as numerous localities in northern North America were referred to taxon minganense. An attempt is made here to evaluate the distinctness of B. minganense and B. lunaria in localities where the two occur together in Michigan. 2. Part of the problem of discriminating critical species in this group arises from the need of good population samples and adequate specimens. A number of localities found for the two taxa under consideration here in northern Michigan made it possible to evaluate their distinctness on the basis of numerous living specimens and carefully preserved specimens. 3. The morphological distinctions between B. minganense and B. lunaria are shown to include differences in the laminar color, the orientation of the sterile blades, the relative lengths of sterile blades, the angles between the lower and upper margins of the basal pinnae, the orientation of the lower margins of the pinnae, the breadth of the pinnae, the structure of the tip of the sterile segment, as well as the late vernation stages, the juvenile leaf structure, and the form of the leaf primordium. These differences are discussed in some detail and illustrated in certain cases. 4. Both of the taxa possess marked forms of deep-shade habitats which differ considerably from one another. However, the shade form of B. lunaria (B. l. f. onondagense (Underw.) Butters & Abbe) may tend to resemble typical plants of B. minganense of normal habitat in certain designated respects. 5. Cytologically, B. minganense differs from B. lunaria in having spores of larger size, and in having n = 90 chromosomes rather than n = 45. Although not necessarily a primary basis of species distinction, the latter difference in chromosomes indicates that the two taxa are probably reproductively isolated. 6. The California plant which has been identified as B. minganense does not represent that taxon but rather a variety or subspecies of B. lunaria. It shares most of its characteristics with the latter species, differing from it primarily in its laminar coloration and in its stature. 7. Botrychium minganense does not appear on present evidence to have had hybrid origin. On the contrary, this taxon is evidently a normal species, endemic to northern North America, and belonging to the general circle of affinity that includes B. lunaria and B. simplex.
10.2307/2996039|The effects of shade litter and root competition on old-field herbaceous vegetation were examined by using two different approaches: one involved the addition of shade and/or litter to plots in an old-field, while the other involved eliminating root competition by trenching along the side of singly-growing pine trees. Vegetation was sampled prior to treatment and again after one and two years of treatment. The normal course of succession was a decrease in density and biomass of annuals, while the density and biomass of perennials doubled. Species more characteristic of early old-field successional stages were more apt to be inhibited by treatment than species characteristic of later successional stages. In the experimental treatments, shade reduced biomass and density, except in Cynodon. Litter alone produced a major decrease in the number of individuals and in biomass; perennial grasses were affected the least and some (Andropogon, Aristida, Leptoloma) showed a major increase over controls. Shade + litter drastically reduced (60-70%) density and biomass (stems and leaves) of annuals and increased the density of perennials, especially Cynodon with shade and pine litter and Andropogon on shade and hardwood litter. In the trenching experiment, the annuals showed no real response in trenched, litter-intact quadrats, while the perennials increased fourfold in density. Annuals had higher densities (100% increase) in response to trenched + litter removal treatment; perennials showed no enhancement of density with the trenched, litter-removal treatment. The largest number of species invaded trenched, litter-removal quadrats. Plants on unshaded quadrats produced more root biomass than on shaded quadrats. More root biomass was produced on hardwood litter plots than under pine litter. Less root biomass was produced on shaded or unshaded + litter plots after two years. Annuals were inhibited by dense shade, root competition and litter. Root competition and shade were more important in suppressing perennials than was litter.
10.2307/2997008|Characteristics of juvenile Picea rubens Sarg. (red spruce) age- and size-structure were evaluated as well as terminal and lateral growth increments for P. rubens saplings among forest community types and microtopographical positions on the Woods Lake watershed in the western Adirondack mountains, New York, USA. The effects of a watershed liming with 6.89 tha<sup>-1</sup> of pelletized CaCO<sub>3</sub> on the growth of P rubens saplings were evaluated in reference and treated subcatchments for the year prior to and three years after treatment to determine if a calcite application initially affected growth. Forest community types at Woods Lake were similar to other northeastern forests in composition and structure, but will likely experience changes in overstory composition as the dominant species, Acer rubrum L. (red maple), is replaced. Fagus grandifolia Ehrh. (American beech) was codominant in the overstory with A. rubrum, and was dominant in the understory. Picea rubens saplings were more frequently found on mounds than other microtopographical positions, but not on mounds that were of recent origin. Picea rubens saplings had an unimodal age-structure characteristic of an even-aged population, which suggests a pattern of episodic regeneration coincident with local windthrow disturbance. Picea rubens that occurred on mounds, rocks, and intact areas tended to be larger and older than those found in pits. The establishment and survival of juvenile P. rubens were limited by the availability of microsites coincident with good seed years, and the suitability of microsites for growth once stems were established. Terminal and lateral growth increments of P rubens saplings were similar among microtopographical positions and between reference and limed subcatchments before and in the two years after liming. In 1992, the terminal increment of P. rubens was not different from the 1991 terminal increment on treated subcatchments, but in reference subcatchments the terminal increment was less than in 1991. The potential role of P rubens in future forests is discussed.
10.2307/2996690|Established staghorn sumac (Rhus typhina L.) clones growing in northern Kentucky were studied from 1985 to 1989. Stems in the interiors of clones increased in size during the study period, but trends in stem density, basal area, and growth rate suggested that these stems are in steady state or decline. Entire clones that survived during the study showed an increase in numbers of small, peripheral stems. Frost damage of all clones in spring 1986 was associated with release of a large cohort of new stems. Survivorship within this cohort was highest among peripheral stems; most new stems in clone interiors perished during the first growing season. Low-level disturbance stimulates a generalized, episodic release of new stems, but it is primarily the peripheral stems that contribute to long-term clone development.
10.2307/2484217|Hemionitis, Gymnopteris and Bommeria represent three closely related genera of "gymnogrammoid" ferns. No single character or combination thereof clearly and consistently distinguishes these genera and some authors have often combined them at one time or another. An initial survey of flavonoids of Hemionitis and Gymnopteris did, in fact, show two basic chemical groups: (1) one group of taxa characterized by the presence of flavonol (quercetin) 3,4'-di-O-glycosides and (2) a second group of taxa producing only flavonol (quercetin and kaempferol) 3-O-glycosides. However, since each chemical group contained species of both Hemionitis and Gymnopteris, the chemical groupings of taxa cut across generic lines based on morphological characters. Further, the first group of species (i.e., with flavonol 3,4'-di-O-glycosides) possesses tuberculate spores while the second group of species (i.e., those with flavonol 3-O-glycosides) possesses crested (cristate) spores. Thus, two independent, strongly correlated sets of data suggest: (1) that retention of two separate genera, Hemionitis and Gymnopteris, is untenable on the basis of previously employed, but highly variable morphological characters, and (2) that they should be combined into a single genus as suggested by some authors. Subsequent work on Bommeria showed all species to possess cristate spores (or a related reticulate form) and, as might be predicted, all taxa possessed the flavonol 3-O-glycosides characteristic of the same cristate spore group in Hemionitis/Gymnopteris. Based on these spore and chemical data and the lack of generically distinctive morphological (and other) characters, it has been suggested that all three genera might be treated as a single genus with perhaps some subgeneric groups based on spore types, supported by flavonoid data.
10.2307/2997026|Seeds are illustrated or described for the first time for three species of Ipomoea considered to be allies of the sweet potato. Ipomoea cynanchifolia shares seed traits with I. grandifolia and I. ramosissima. Ipomoea grandifolia was previously hypothesized to be a hybrid; however, the new data indicate that this was in error. Ipomoea peruviana shows intermediate traits between sections Batatas and Eriospermum.
10.2307/2996799|The theoretical distribution of light in a circular forest canopy gap is symmetrically equal on the east and west sides of the gap. However, small plants on the west side of the gap receive maximum light in the morning when air temperature and vapor pressure deficit are relatively low, while plants on the east side receive maximum light in the afternoon when temperature and VPD are high. To test the hypothesis that plants on the west side of a gap are able to use light more efficiently, Microstegium vimineum, a shade-adapted annual grass, was grown in pots in a forest canopy gap, both in the actual open gap and in the extended gap. In the actual gap there was no difference in growth efficiency. However, in the extended gap growth efficiency was 39% greater on the west side than on the east side under equal light (integrated photon flux density). Thus, asymmetry of microclimate on the east and west sides of a canopy gap causes an east-west asymmetry in plant growth efficiency and may induce asymmetry in species composition of understory vegetation.
10.2307/2483883|The consensus of contemporary opinion holds that, although the earlier stages of embryogenesis in both monocotyledons and dicotyledons follow identical sequences, the single cotyledon of the monocotyledon embryo develops from the terminal pole of the proembryo while the shoot apex originates from a lateral locus on the embryonal axis, which relationship is reversed in the dicotyledon embryo. In contrast, studies on the embryo development in Eichhornia crassipes, as also in some of the recently investigated monocotyledon taxa, clearly demonstrate that the topographical relationships of cotyledon-epicotyl and shoot apex-hypocotyl are the same as in the dicotyledon embryo. These results, therefore, seriously question the validity of current understanding of the monocotyledon embryo. The present study also throws further light on the occurence of diverse patterns of shoot apex organization in the monocotyledon embryos: While in some of the recently investigated taxa the cotyledonary and epicotylary loci share equal quanta of the working sphere of the shoot apex, in Eichhornia the cotyledonary locus involves three-quarters and the epicotylary locus one-quarter. A summation of results of recent researches on monocotyledon embryogenesis warrant fresh investigations which in turn would lead to formulation of concepts that are in keeping with observed facts.
10.2307/2484164|During a severe drought in May 1977, all plants in a population of the winter annual Sedum pulchellum Michx. at an old limestone quarry site in northcentral Kentucky died before producing seeds. However, during the following autumn the annual establishment of the S. pulchellum population at this site occurred from the reserve of seeds in the soil; a density of 5.6 plants/dm
10.2307/2484178|The cytological effect of nogalamycin was tested in microsporocytes of Tradescantia paludosa. Microsporocytes from treated and control buds were analyzed for bridge and fragment configurations. Fragments accompanying anaphase I and II bridges were measured. The presence of univalent bridges at anaphase I, a high incidence of metaphase I fragments and second division bridges with fragments, bridges without fragments and variation in fragment size suggested errors arising from breakage and fusion rather than inversion-induced bridges and fragments.
10.2307/2482381|Tobacco seedlings (Maryland Medium Broadleaf) were grown aseptically in 200 ml. Erlenmeyer flasks on 50 ml. of a complete mineral agar. The temperature was 25 C and illumination about 500 foot candles. Bacillus cereus Frankland and Frankland produced symptom patterns in gross morphology of the seedlings that closely approximated those of frenching. Marginal inoculations of the medium were quite effective and demonstrated that roots and bacteria need not be in contact to produce the symptoms. Roots of the seedlings were normal in color, but much shorter and somewhat thicker. The effectiveness of B. cereus varied with the strain, the kind and quantity of peptone used, and the concentration of inorganic nitrogen. Bactotryptone, 200 p.p.m., was most effective with 141 p.p.m. of inorganic nitrogen. The presence of 227 p.p.m. of inorganic nitrogen led to masking or delay in appearance of the symptoms. It is suggested that diffusates from B. cereus and perhaps other soil bacteria, may be the cause of frenching of tobacco in the field.
10.2307/2482304|1. Seventeen strains of fungi were cultured with different concentrations of streptomycin covering the range: 0.0, 0.1, 1.0, 2.5, 5.0 and 10 mgs. per ml. Two types of media were used, one with peptone and one without, and growth was observed in the pH ranges of 4.0-4.1 and 5.9-6.0. 2. Either inhibition or enhancement with streptomycin was obtained with 8 of the 17 fungi tested. The peculiar effects obtained appear to vary with the type of medium used, but seem not to be due to differences in pH and incubation temperatures. When acceleration occurred it was usually best with 5.0 and 10 mgs. per ml. of streptomycin and inhibition was generally also in direct proportion to the concentration. 3. Nocardia grown with 2.5-10 mgs./ml. of streptomycin lost its normal orange color.
10.2307/2996253|Multivariate analyses were carried out on 32 greenhouse populations derived from the same number of wild populations of three taxa of California Fragaria. Population samples varied from 5 to 9 individuals and the total sample size was 254. Relationships among taxa were assessed by principal components, cluster, and discriminant analysis. Population relationships were determined by discriminant analysis. When all populations were included, there was 77% correct classification of individual plants. Further, there was no overlap among the three taxa (F. vesca, F. chiloensis, F. virginiana subsp glauca). Separate analyses of F. vesca and F. chiloensis resulted in, respectively, 91% and 78% correct classification These analyses revealed considerable variation among populations and each population illustrates adaptation to different ecological circumstances. Additional analyses of F. vesca and F. chiloensis were prepared by assigning populations to community types. This results in three community types for F. vesca (coastal forest, scrub, sierran forest) and four for F. chiloensis (dunes, scrub, strand, and woodland-meadows). Discriminant analyses of these groups revealed 91% correct classification, by community type, for F. vesca and 87% for F. chiloensis. These results indicate that (a) each taxon has segregated into morphological types that correspond to general community types and that (b) within each community type there is further differentiation into population types.
10.2307/2996726|Seeds of Carya floridana (Sarg.) Small, a Florida endemic and prominent constituent of the southern ridge sandhill vegetation type, were collected from Red Hill at the Archbold Biological Station in Highlands County, Florida to determine germinability and microsite requirements for successful establishment, growth, and survival. A float test revealed that only 0.03% of the nuts were unsound (14 of 440). Of the remaining 426 nuts, 384 were selected for uniformity and returned to the greenhouse to determine germinability. A total of 368 nuts (96%) germinated within 20 days with no pretreatment. Germinated nuts were subsequently used to experimentally examine the effects of soil type (pure sand, sand: vermiculite, sphagnum: vermiculite: perlite) and nutrient addition (20:20:20 NPK fertilizer present or absent) on seedling establishment, growth, and survival. Survival was >90% after 12 weeks for all non-fertilized soil types and the fertilized sphagnum:vermiculite:perlite treatment. Fertilization of the sand and sand:vermiculite soils, however, resulted in survivorship declining to 38 and 0%, respectively. Soil, fertilizer, and the soil*fertilizer interaction had significant effects on many of the morphometric and allocation variables. In general, this species appears to be well adapted to soils with low water holding capacity, low organic matter, and minimal fertility. While fire is the primary determinant of seedling establishment and survival in this habitat, microsite heterogeneity may play a secondary role.
10.2307/2484783|Twelve mature forest types based on a review of the literature and on field reconnaissance are recognized for Long Island. The types are classified as "Forests of well-drained soils" (eight types) and "Forests of poorly-drained soils" (four types). In addition, six "Strand or maritime forest" types which develop under coastal microclimates are recognized. A list is given of trees that are reported to form pure stands of limited extent, and a key to the twelve types is included to aid in rapid field identification.
10.2307/2996383|Naturally occurring populations of Opuntia (Cactaceae) within the Ridge and Valley Province of the central Appalachian Mountains were investigated to determine if the cacti of this area are the widely distributed species O. compressa (Salisb.) Macbr. or represent two species, O. compressa and O. calcicola Wherry. Nine populations were examined and measurements were taken for nineteen morphological characteristics and also for various environmental parameters. A high degree of variability was found to exist within each population, much more than was found to exist among all nine population means. Morphological data were statistically analyzed using cluster analysis and one-way analysis of variance. Results of these analyses provided no evidence supporting the presence of more than one species of cactus, leading to the conclusion that all cacti growing in this area are O. compressa, and that O. calcicola does not warrant recognition at any taxonomic level.
10.2307/2483147|Five kinds of mature, unspecialized, colorless plant tissues with regular columnar cell arrangements were studied in the living condition in sucrose solutions having concentrations determined as approximately isotonic with the vacuolar contents of the cells. The tissues used were (1) Rhoeo discolor Hance upper subepidermal leaf parenchyma, (2) Begonia ricinifolia A. Dietr., var. "Immense" leaf petiole parenchyma, (3) Impatiens Balsamina L. stem pith, (4) Coleus Rehneltianus Per. stem pith, and (5) Asparagus Sprengeri Regel tuberous root cortex. Five tetrakaidecahedral cells and five other 14-faced cells chosen at random but restricted to having only quadrilateral, pentagonal, and hexagonal faces from each tissue were drawn and compared with ten 14-faced cells from the irregularly arranged, colorless leaf parenchyma of Kleinia gomphophylla Dietr. in the living condition. No tetrakaidecahedral cells were found in the Kleinia leaf parenchyma. Edge curvatures of all the cells from regularly arranged tissues resembled to a great degree those of the minimal tetrakaidecahedron, but some exceptions occurred. Edge curvatures of cells from irregularly arranged tissue exhibited a lesser degree of resemblance. Edges common to a pair of hexagonal faces in elongate tetrakaidecahedral cells and those closely related in form exhibited a sigmoid curvature thought to result from surface forces tending to equilibrate facial angles at cell vertices. Some possible patterns of equational division of a 17-faced cell in hexagonally prismatic form were considered, and the resultant daughter cell possibilities were compared in form with data on cells previously studied by other investigators. It was concluded that cell form is determined by the mode of cell division and the activity of surface forces operating in conjunction with many other factors under conditions governed by definite mathematical and physical laws.
10.2307/2483145|1. Corn (Zea mays, Bikini out-crossed) was grown in 16 controlled environmental conditions. Pollen from plants in 13 of these conditions was acetolyzed and the axis length and diameter of the pore (including the annulus) were measured. A total of 500 grains was studied. The axis/pore and (axis)<sup>2</sup>/pore ratios for each grain were calculated. 2. Because axis length was changed more by environment than pore diameter, the (axis)<sup>2</sup>/pore ratio was proposed as a measure to give additional weight to changes in axis length. This ratio gave greater differences between means of size characters of pollen from different environments. 3. Statistical analysis of the effects of environment on corn pollen showed that pollen size varied inversely with night temperatures. Analysis of variance showed that there was variation of pollen among plants in the same environment, suggesting that genetic variability and micro-environments may have marked effects on corn pollen characters. 4. Environmental changes affected axis length and pore diameter sufficiently to make the pollen grains from different environments appear to have been derived from more than one population. On the basis of a simple discriminant which has been used by other workers to differentiate pollen of corn from teosinte and Tripsacum, 31% of the corn pollen from the various environments could have been classified as teosinte or Tripsacum. 5. Some problems associated with the classification of a fossil pollen grain as that of corn were discussed. The data in the present study do not refute the findings of Barghoorn et al. (1954) but indicate the need for more reliable methods for the identification of corn pollen.
10.2307/2484033|The mature upland forests of Cape May County, the most southerly county in New Jersey, show a decided southern affinity. The floristic diversity is not as great as areas to the south but the major species on a vegetational basis are clearly important members of the southern mixed hardwood forest. These mature stands have little in common with the vegetation of the New Jersey Pine Barrens. The Cape May forests are here considered to be outliers of the southern mixed hardwood forests.
10.2307/2996041|Radial growth of American beech (Fagus grandifolia Ehrh.) at high elevations in the Great Smoky Mountains was examined in relation to monthly variation in climate. Mean monthly temperatures for May, July and August of the current growing season were inversely related to the width of annual growth rings. Mean April temperatures were directly related to radial growth of beech at highest elevations suggesting that early spring temperatures affected the length of the growing season. Growth of beech was correlated with April rainfall of the current season and rainfall in August of the previous growing season. These results suggested that growth responses to climate of beech at high elevations differed from growth patterns previously described for beech in other portions of the range, with growth of beech being limited by low rainfall in spring and high temperatures in summer.
10.2307/2484537|Seed proteins were studied in 174 plants from 20 populations of Chenopodium incanum. Thirteen of the 20 populations showed no protein variation among the component plants. Plants from two populations displayed less than 80% protein similarity. Interpopulational variation exceeded intrapopulation variability, with only two assemblages displaying greater than 80% similarity. Plants from nearby geographic localities tend to be more similar in seed protein ensembles than do those from widely separated localities, but there are exceptions. The seed protein data suggest that more genetic heterogeneity exists in C. incanum than is evident from the uniform morphology of the species. The results reveal that it is essential that sampling within a given taxon be extensive if seed protein data are to be used to analyze the biosystematics of the group. An attempt is made to explain the pattern of seed protein profiles in C. incanum in terms of its current breeding system.
10.2307/2483794|Two compounds, azetidine-2-carboxylic acid and 2,2'-dipyridyl, reported to interact at two different steps involved in the synthesis of proline- and hydroxyproline-containing protein were found to inhibit growth and induce phenovariation in Scapania nemorosa (L.) Dum. The similarity in the effects of these substances to those of hydroxyproline supports the hypothesis that this latter compound also induces phenovariation by virtue of altering the "normal" synthesis of proline-hydroxyproline-containing proteins.
10.2307/2484166|The pollen records from three lakes in northern New Jersey reflect the history of the landscape from precolonial time to the present. Each pollen diagram contains three pollen zones, one representing a period prior to European settlement, the second a period of deforestation, and the third a period of forest recovery. Ragweed pollen rose from near zero in the precolonial zone to 12-20% of the pollen sum in the deforestation zone and then fell to 6-10% in the recovery zone; these changes defined the zones. The zones correspond with an historically established sequence characterized by a time prior to European disturbance, land clearance from about 1740 to 1850, and forest recovery from about 1850 to the present. Oak (Quercus) was the dominant genus in the forests near all of the lakes at all time periods. In the precolonial forests chestnut (Castanea) shared dominance with oak in the upland forests and alder (Alnus) was probably widespread in the swampy lowlands. Other major genera were hemlock (Tsuga), birch (Betula) and pine (Pinus). As colonists felled these forests, the relative abundances of the species near the lakes changed. Cutting trees for charcoal favored oaks and birch; clearing and draining of swamps eliminated most of the alder. In many areas hemlock and chestnut also declined in importance. Forests regenerated in the recovery period, with more birch and less hemlock and chestnut than before settlement. Where swamp forests were re-established American elm, white ash and red maple (Ulmus americana, Fraxinus americana and Acer rubrum) forests replaced the alder. The persistence of the upland forest types attests to the stability of these forest types even in the face of extensive disturbance.
10.2307/2996949|Viburnum sieboldii Miq. is native to Japan but has gotten a foothold in the wild in North America, having been cultivated here for some time. The species is growing out of cultivation and is often reproducing in New York City parks in the Bronx, Queens, and elsewhere in Westchester and Nassau counties. This is despite the fact that this species is almost completely ignored in the major U.S. botanical literature, and regional and local floras. There may be some potential for this plant to become locally abundant and outcompete native vegetation.
10.2307/2483599|A 5.75-meter long core of sediment from Lake Mahoma has been re-examined to determine (1) the total population of fungus spores per cubic centimeter of material at different levels and (2) the distribution of the different kinds throughout the entire profile. A maximum of 60,912 spores per cubic centimeter of sediment occurred medianly between the one and two-meter levels. The fungus flora consisted of approximately 40 kinds, only 2 of which were present at nearly all levels in the highly organic portion of the profile, whereas the basal silt portion contained relatively few spores. The pattern of spore distribution shows a trend toward decline in numbers with an increase in profile depth, an unexplained finding that accords with that previously noted both for Lake Bujuku and for Lake Tanganyika.
10.2307/2482195|1. A heat chamber is described for the purposes of testing the effect of high temperatures and high relative humidity on plant overgrowths. 2. This chamber is provided with an automatic, electrically controlled device for heating, vaporizing water and feeding water for humidification. 3. Preliminary trials have furnished material for cytological study of the effect of heat and humidity on plant tumor development.
10.2307/2484167|The leaf surface mycoflora of mustard (Brassica campestris L. cv. YS-42) were isolated from the seedling stage up to the senescent stage, at intervals of 30 days, by use of the techniques of dilution plate, washed leaf disks and unwashed leaf disks in moist chambers. The maximum number of fungal species was isolated by the dilution plate method and the minimum by the washed leaf disks method. Cladosporium cladosporioides was most frequently isolated under all conditions. However, it was replaced by Alternaria alternata on washed disks of senescent leaves. The numbers of leaf surface microfungi isolated increased with leaf age.
10.2307/2484717|At two sites in North Carolina, inflorescence heights, leaf number at various height intervals, and time of senescence were studied over the flowering season of Rumex hastatulus, an annual dioecious colonizer. Inflorescence height was significantly affected by site, census date, and sex. Female inflorescences rapidly outgrew males, though males began flowering first. Leaf number was significantly affected by site, height interval, and sex at all census dates. Females had more leaves than males. The mean senescence date of males was one week earlier than for females. The differences reported for males and females are best interpreted as consequences of the different optimal reproductive strategies of the two sexes rather than as niche partitioning of the light resource.
10.2307/2484681|Mentzelia displays a wide range of evolutionary mechanisms which have affected speciation in the genus, including: species-specific pollination vectors, preferential habitat requirements, and formation of aneuploid and polyploid series. The taxon M. speciosa, first described by G. E. Osterhout in 1901, has a limited distribution in the Rocky Mountain Front Range. Touterea sinuata (Touterea = Mentzelia) described by P. A. Rydberg in 1904 from the same region, was quickly placed in synonomy under M. speciosa. Data derived from morphological and cytological examinations of populations of putative M. speciosa indicate that Touterea sinuata is a valid taxon. Scanning electron microscopy of seed coat microsculpturing would indicate either that speciation is recent, or that the taxa have not evolved greatly since their initial divergence The two taxa are described, and the new combination Mentzelia sinuata (Rydb.) R. J. Hill is made. Distribution maps, leaf silhouettes and caryograms are included. Synonomy and selected exsiccatae are given.
10.2307/2484379|Seasonal changes in shoot numbers and weights, standing crop and primary production and nutrients were determined for aboveground tissues of Typha glauca. Shoot numbers in May were 34/m
10.2307/2482281|1. The marketing of sun-dried chile produced in New Mexico is seriously handicapped by the presence of molds within the cured pods. 2. A three-year study revealed that: a. 21 different fungi were responsible for internal pod contamination. b. The most common internal contamination were two species of Fusarium, two species of Alternaria, and one species of Hormodendrum. c. Prevalence of the various fungi varied from year to year. 3. The fungi usually gained entrance to the red succulent pods following damage by frost when the ovary wall pulled away from the seed mass allowing for the entrance of fungus spores. 4. When moisture collected in the shoulder folds of fleshy pods, Alternaria tenuis and A. solani entered by direct penetration of the ovary wall. 5. About 200 progeny lines were examined for resistance to frost damage, with negative results. 6. Mold percentages were lower in lines which produced pods with narrow shoulders and a tight-fitting calyx.
10.2307/2484443|In a central New York State beech-maple woodland, the dispersal characteristics of the herbaceous species were recorded. Forty-five herbaceous species were present in the quadrats sampled; thirteen of these species were ant-dispersed (myrmecochores). Ant-dispersed plants contributed half of the 10,004 stems sampled, 60.2, 53.9, 55.4. and 50.7% in each of four sections of the forest. Ant-dispersed plants also comprised 48.2, 39.5, 38.3, and 37.3% of the aboveground herbaceous biomass in these areas. Foraging and nesting behavior of ants must be a major factor contributing to the structure of this herb community, along with asexual reproductive patterns and competitive processes. Local differences in herb community structure may be mediated by differences in ant abundance and behavior.
10.2307/2996086|The chronosequence method (stand ages 0-20 years)was used to study the invasion of the upper Coastal Prairie of Texas Dy tile Chinese tallow tree and to learn whether this exotic plant would be replaced by native woodland species. This invasion marked a dramatic transformation of community structure. Dominance of life forms shifted rapidly (<10 years to canopy closure) as graminoids and forbs were replaced by trees and shrubs during succession. Size-frequency distributions of the trees showed that stands were not even-aged. Many stands in the oldest three age classes exhibited descending monotonic tree size distributions. Because Chinese tallow produces seeds soon after establishment, it seems likely that the rapid increase in density was the result of initial trees acting as seed sources. The most common native trees that appeared in the survey were generally small-seeded inhabitants of local riparian areas, e.g., hackberry (Celtis laevigata), elm (Ulmus americana), green ash (Fraxinus pensylvanica), and yaupon (Ilex vomitoria). Low densities of these species indicated slow invasion rates compared to that of tallow. Currently, stands are virtually monospecific. However, the non-tallow species showed a significant increase in density with stand age which suggests that these woodlands may become more diverse in the future.
10.2307/2995943|Three vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhiza (VAM) fungus parameters were compared for five sites at Weston Cemetary Prairie, and adjacent corn and oat fields. Spore analysis showed Glomus fasciculatum complex to be the most abundant taxon at all sites in both 1982 and 1984. One-way ANOVA of total spores per site showed significant differences between three prairie sites and the adjacent corn field in 1982, but no significant differences between sites in 1984. One-way ANOVA of 1984 spore counts for G. fasciculatum complex by site revealed no significant differences between sites. One-way ANOVA of 1984 VAM root colonization data for bioassay plants showed significantly lower root colonization in plants grown in soil from the adjacent oat field than for plants grown in soil from other sites.
10.2307/2995983|Based on comparison of specimens of cultivated and wild individuals derived from a common population but grown under differing moisture regimes, the stability of qualitative anatomical features in relation to water availability was assessed for the wood of 39 species drawn from 34 dicot families. The most stable features were intervascular pitting pattern, presence of helical thickenings on vessel element walls, type of pore grouping, perforation plate morphology, occurrence of septate, gelatinous, and nucleated fibers, type of imperforate element, presence of vascular tracheids, and ray histology and morphology. Patterns of axial parenchyma distribution were stable with the exception of paratracheal types. The least stable characters were porosity, ratio of perforation plates in plate dimorphic woods, frequency of solitary vessels, relative frequency of pore grouping types, and abundance of vascular tracheids. Variations in the least stable characters had a predictable relationship with changes in water availability.
10.2307/2483549|Seeds of an early variety of rice were soaked with GA
10.2307/2484679|Achenes of Heterotheca subaxillaris var. subaxillaris (Compositae) exhibit germination dimorphism. Freshly-matured dise achenes are nondormant and will germinate in light and darkness over a wide range of temperatures, including those that simulate habitat temperatures at the time of dispersal in autumn. Ray achenes are dormant at dispersal and must afterripen before they can germinate. Afterripening of ray achenes is inhibited by low and promoted by high temperatures; therefore, germination is delayed for at least a year after dispersal. Low temperatures in the habitat during winter prevent afterripening, so achenes do not germinate in spring because they are dormant. High summer temperatures promote afterripening, and nondormant achenes germinate in autumn, if they are exposed to light. Germination dimorphism in H. subaxillaris var. subaxillaris helps spread germination of a seed crop through time and thus may be of survival value to the species in a particular habitat.
10.2307/2996564|American chestnut sprout populations were mapped on 14 sites of approximately 1 square kilometer in Connecticut and Massachusetts Living sprouts were nearly continuous in distribution at 2 of the 14 sites, almost completely absent from 2 other sites, and sparsely distributed, with local concentrations of high density, on the remaining 10 sites The highest densities of sprouts were found adjacent to old growth woodland that once contained chestnut seed sources. However, very few or no chestnut sprouts were found in the interior of old growth stands containing many chestnut snags and stumps. Differences in soil conditions and other natural factors do not fully account for the lack of chestnut reproduction on many of these sites. The absence of sprouts on suitable sites adjacent to former chestnut seed sources is attributed to the effects of former land use activities on chestnut seedling establishment in the years before chestnut blight, along with competitive exclusion of chestnut by more tolerant species on mesic sites. The present distribution of chestnut sprouts indicates that former forest edges, hedgerows, young stands of pioneer tree species in old fields, and shrub thickets on the margin of moist areas may have been especially suitable for chestnut seedling establishment. Some of these conjectures about the nature of chestnut seedling establishment are consistent with observations recorded by H. D. Thoreau in the mid-19th century
10.2307/2483412|Specimens from 15 species (9 herbaceous and 6 woody) common to the south-eastern coastal plain were excavated. The following weight relationships were determined by regression analysis using the method of least squares: root and shoot, shoot and height, root and height (log Y and log X respectively). In general, the mean root/shoot ratio increased from annuals, to herbaceous perennials, to woody perennials. Biennials and loblolly pine root/shoot ratios overlapped with herbaceous perennials. These data suggested that old field succession can be explained in part through an increase in root competition that must accompany the increase in root/shoot ratios of successive dominants. The dry weights of roots and shoots was found to be significantly correlated with height. It was suggested that this mathematical relationship may be used to modify present sampling techniques employed in standing crop, root production and mineral cycle studies.
10.2307/2996472|The vegetation at Hempstead Plains, Mitchell Field, Long Island, New York was collected on a weekly basis from April 12, 1986 to October 15, 1986 One hundred seventy-one specific and subspecific taxa of vascular plants were identified in 120 genera and 50 families Largest families are Poaceae (33 species) and Asteraceae (31 species) with Panicum and Solidago as largest genera. Thirty-eight per cent of the taxa are not native to the United States. Dominance of herbaceous taxa in the flora indicates the graminoid and herbaceous character of the Mitchell Field portion of the old Hempstead Plains prairie vegetation. However, a series of disturbances has initiated a very slow shift to old field succession
10.2307/2482047|1. Pairings of thirty monocaryon cultures of P. cinnabarinus showed the existence of four compatibility groups. 2. Two classes of monocaryon cultures, "slow" and "rapid" growers, were demonstrated on the basis of rate of growth on potato-dextrose-agar in Petri dishes. The "slow" growers were not slow because of a deficiency of thiamine. Rates of growth could not be correlated with the compatibility group of the culture. 3. In cultures derived from pairing of monocaryon mycelia there was no pattern discernible of how various cultures would influence the rate of growth of a dicaryon culture; the effect of any particular culture depended upon the culture with which it was paired.
10.2307/2482854|The genus Votomita aublet, most recently placed (with doubt) in the Rubiaceae, is found to be a melastome synonymous when emended with Meliandra Ducke and Coryphadenia Morley. These and other synonyms are displaced by Aublet's genus on the basis of priority. Reasons for past misinterpretations are discussed as are several features of morphology and anatomy. Provided are improved descriptions of the genus and of some species, a key to species, and the description of a plant new to science, V. orinocensis of Venezuela.
10.2307/2997010|Seven 1-ha plots were established in second-growth, mixed-species forests across a soil moisture gradient in the Coastal Plain of South Carolina. All trees in the plots were tagged in 1979 and measured in 1979 and 1989 to determine 10-yr recruitment of trees 4.5 cm DBH (ingrowth) and mortality. Ingrowth to mortality ratios and sums of ingrowth plus mortality were used to quantify shade tolerance and successional status of individual species. In all plots, small stem density decreased and large stem density increased, an indication that the forests were in mid-successional phases where competition is expected to be intense. Shade tolerant species, especially small tree life forms, had the greatest ratios of ingrowth to mortality. Large differences in population flux, even among shade tolerant species, indicated that different mechanisms can account for increases in populations of late-successional species. Within some species, ratios of ingrowth to mortality varied significantly across the gradient reflecting flooding or soil moisture effects on succession.
10.2307/2997025|Like other species of goldenrod, cross pollination is required for seed set in Solidago shortii T. & G., and the percentage of flowers that produce seeds in this narrow endemic is similar to that in some of its geographically-widespread congeners. In field studies, seed set was 22-25.2% in open-pollinated flowers, less than 1% in bagged flowers, 10.2% in hand-crossed flowers, and 0% in hand-selfed flowers. Seed set in hand-crossed and hand-selfed flowers in the greenhouse was 42.3% and 3.5%, respectively. The most frequent visitor to the flowers of S. shortii was the goldenrod soldier beetle, Chauliognathus pennsylvanicus, which is known to effect pollination in other Solidago species. Neither Apis nor Bombus was seen on inflorescences of S. shortii in the field. No major impact of herbivory was observed on the goldenrod. Thus, it appears that the narrow endemism of S. shortii cannot be explained on the basis of the breeding system and interactions with arthropods.
10.2307/2483955|The carbohydrate cycle of Carex bigelowii was determined in a sedge meadow at 1840 m with additional determinations made on 4 species in another site (1665 m). Data on phenology and microenvironment were gathered throughout the growing season to permit a correlation of carbohydrate fluctuation with plant development. Rhizome carbohydrates were depleted prior to the breaking of shoot dormancy and recovered slowly until the end of flowering. There was a decrease in rhizome and shoot carbohydrate during early seed set followed by a gradual rise, broken only by periods of cloudy, cold weather. With leaf coloration, seed dispersal, and the onset of winter dormancy, shoot sugar declined rapidly and rhizome starch increased proportionally. Total plant carbohydrate levels were high during periods of rapid shoot elongation.
10.2307/2483622|A pattern of herb distribution is described in its relation to a stand of Adenostoma fasciculatum. The annual herbs were distributed into three zones: one combination of species was found growing under the shrubs, a second constituted an extensive grassland adjacent to the shrub stand, and a third combination was found in a belt about 1 m wide between the shrub stand and the grassland. This distributional pattern was shown to develop at the time of herb seed germination. We have determined that various species of annuals associated with the shrub stand were excluded from the grassland by an allelopathic mechanism. One dominant grassland species shown to have an allelopathic potential was Avena fatua. The distribution of the dead straw of this grass was shown to be correlated with the differential germination of associated annual species: some species germinated in the presence of the straw while others did not. Once established, this pattern was maintained by additional organismic interactions.
10.2307/2484684|Polygalacturonase, pectinesterase and polygalacturonate lyase are produced in vitro by Fusarium oxysporum f. sp perniciosum. Pectinesterase and polygalacturonase but not polygalacturonate lyase activity were found in infected mimosa (Albizzia julibrissin) seedlings. Polygalacturonase activity increased weekly over a 4-week period and was found to be highest in leaf and lowest in root fractions. Column chromatography on Sephadex G-75 of filtrates from infected seedlings produced 3 separate "fractions" with viscosity reducing activity. Two of these fractions also had pectinesterase activity. No fraction had lyase activity.
10.2307/2484190|Woody seedlings and saplings inhabiting the most recently exposed one-third of a 375 m
10.2307/2997177|Climatic and flowering data from a site in the northern Sonoran Desert of southern Arizona were used to define flowering triggers and developmental requirements for 6 woody plants. These formulations were then used to predict flowering dates at a second northern Sonoran Desert site. It was determined that flowering is triggered by rain in Larrea tridentata (DC.) Cov., Fouquieria splendens Engelm., Encelia farinosa A. Gray, Ambrosia deltoidea (A. Gray) Payne and Acacia constricta Benth., and that flowering is triggered by photoperiod in Cercidium microphyllum (Torr.) Rose & Johnst. The base temperature for floral development in L. tridentata, F. splendens, E. farinosa, A. deltoidea and C. microphyllum is about 10<sup></sup>C. Their mean degree-day requirements range from 414 to 719. Acacia constricta requires 522 degree-days above 15<sup></sup>C. Minimum rainfall triggers varied from 9 mm for Ambrosia to 20 mm for Encelia. Flowering time in C. microphyllum may reflect phylogenetic constraints, while flowering time in F. splendens may be strongly influenced by pollinator availability. Flowering times of the remaining species seem constrained more by climate than by biotic considerations such as phylogeny, seed germination and competition for pollinators.
10.2307/2484257|Twelve collecting sites, all located on privately owned land and representing a total of six salvadorean departamentos, are described with respect to altitude, clinal zone, traveling time from San Salvador and general floristic attributes.
10.2307/2996300|Enzyme electrophoresis was employed to examine divergence between Lemna minuta H.B.&K. and L. valdiviana Phil., two nearly indistinguishable species comprising sect. Uninerves of Lemna Fifteen presumptive loci were resolved for 25 clones of Lemna minuta and 26 of L. valdiviana Genetic identity between the two species is 0.70, which is near the mean value for congeneric species of flowering plants, but is much higher than values reported for other species of Lemnaceae. With the exception of two clones, the taxonomic designations of the strains correlated with monomorphism for alternative alleles at two MDH loci. The two species are highly differentiated at two other loci as well. Although the taxa are morphologically similar, they differ in geographic distribution, flavonoid chemistry, and certain physiological and ecological attributes. The relatively high identity at allozyme loci compared to other Lemnaceae suggests that L. minuta and L. valdiviana are closely related and recently diverged sister species.
10.2307/2484375|Atriplex leucophylla is an evergreen perennial which grows between 39
10.2307/2483567|Changes in root:shoot ratio with age are described for a number of herbaceous and woody species. Andropogon sudanensis and Arena sativa show an initial increase in root:shoot ratio and then a decline. A number of tree species show increases in root:shoot ratios for periods up to 37 weeks. Data for various ages from 7 to 37 weeks show increases in root :shoot ratios with increase in age for actively growing seedlings of Pinus radiata, P. sylvestris, Eucalyptus baxteri and Picea abies, and a constant ratio for Betula verrucosa.
10.2307/2996545|To measure vegetative and reproductive plasticity, survival, growth, and reproduction of Impatiens capensis, populations were studied in eight habitats of widely varying light and soil moisture. Maximum seedling densities ranging from 73 to 2,117 m
10.2307/2484009|Digitaria sanguinalis (crabgrass) is prominent early in the first stage of old-field succession in central Oklahoma and southern Kansas, occurring sometimes in almost pure stands. It is one of the first species of that stage to be lost, however. It was postulated, therefore, that crabgrass might produce substances inhibitory to its own seedlings and to seedlings of associated species. Seed germination and seedling growth of Amaranthus retroflexus, Ambrosia elatior, Aristida oligantha, Bromus japonicus, Digitaria sanguinalis, and Helianthus annuus were inhibited by whole plant extracts, except for seed germination of A. oligantha and B. japonicus. Decaying crabgrass had no effects on germination or growth of test plants. Growth inhibitors were apparently released by crabgrass as root exudates and retarded the growth of most species tested. Three inhibitors, chlorogenic acid, isochlorogenic acid, and sulfosalicylic acid were identified in whole plant extracts. Sulfosalicylic acid was found only in fresh extracts, however. Crabgrass is inhibitory to many of the pioneer species of abandoned fields, including its own seedlings. Sorghum halepense, Helianthus annuus, and several species of Euphorbia are very inhibitory to crabgrass seedlings also. These are all species which are important in the first stage of old-field succession, and thus, the rapid disappearance of crabgrass from the weed stage may be due to inhibition by several of the early invaders including crabgrass itself. Crabgrass did not inhibit the germination of Aristida oligantha seeds, but unlike other species of the weed stage, it was inhibitory to the growth of A. oligantha seedlings. The rapid disappearance of crabgrass from the weed stage, however, would prevent this effect from having any bearing on the invasion of the old-field by A. oligantha, the dominant in the second stage of succession.
10.2307/2996494|Trees  4.5 cm DBH were mapped on seven, one-hectare plots along an elevational gradient in South Carolina These stands, ranging in location from a deep swamp to a bluff site, were analyzed in terms of Pielou's 
10.2307/2484523|In southern Chile, the authors collected a rather select group of Hepaticae which was subject to either tidal action or ocean spray. Hepaticae of the tidal region are chiefly weedy, polytypic, polystenic, widely distributed taxa. Drainage from the forested areas directly above the beaches and the high rainfall of the region are sources of fresh water for these plants. It is likely that this rather abundant and constant source of fresh water is a most critical factor for tidal zone Hepaticae. As a consequence we believe that one cannot argue from the occurrence of tidal zone Hepaticae in southern Chile that ocean dispersal of shoreline taxa is possible.
10.2307/2483769|Establishment of tree seedlings in early stages of old-field succession on soil derived from Triassic red shales of the piedmont of New Jersey is reported. The studies were made at the Hutcheson Memorial Forest preserve. On fields abandoned from cultivation at two-year intervals starting with 1958 permanent quadrats were established and sampled annually. Results showed that, as a rule, tree seedlings do not become established during the first year but begin to appear the second year, with new ones continuing to appear in successive years. Mortality of previously established individuals is also common during the early stages of succession. During early successional stages, when much bare soil is exposed, heaving due to freeze-thaw cycles in winter is one of the major influences in hindering early establishment of tree seedlings.
10.2307/2483078|1. The end result of introgressive hybridization is the gradual infiltration of germ plasm of one species into the germ plasm of the other, thereby bringing about increased variability in the species concerned. 2. The use of a pictorialized scatter diagram suggests that the variable populations in the Carex stans-bigelowii complex studied in northern Canada are due to introgressive hybridization.
10.2307/2996334|Woody vegetation in a 667 ha virgin subalpine forest in the White Mountains of New Hampshire was examined with (1) direct gradient analysis, incorporating the natural distribution of disturbance-created vegetation patches, over the elevational range of 600 to 1100 m and (2) sampling specifically in old-age vegetation patches. Disturbance patches exerted a major influence on vegetation patterning, occupying 39% of the total study area. They were formed primarily by windthrow; mass movements and fire were of minor importance. In the gradient analysis, density of live stems 5.0 cm DBH generally increased with elevation. Basal area rose to a maximum at 890 m elevation, then decreased towards higher elevations. Species' importance distributions changed independently with elevation. Old-age vegetation patches were dominated by red spruce and balsam fir and averaged 1189 stems/ha (2.5 cm DBH), a value lower than those reported from other old-age spruce-fir stands in New England, and 44.0 m<sup>2</sup>/ha basal area. The recent spruce mortality reported by Siccama et al. (1982) is a widespread form of disturbance at Crawford Notch.
10.2307/2483778|Polyembryony is reported in Ruellia humilis Nutt. (Acanthaceae) for the first time. The frequency of occurrence in 7,960 seeds was 0.075%. The parallel position of the twin embryos suggests that they may have originated by zygotic or embryonic cleavage.
10.2307/2996413|In 1976, an extensive ice storm struck southern Wisconsin, resulting in substantial damage to the upland forest at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee Cedar-Sauk Field Station. Strong northeasterly winds following the storm (80.6 km/hour) exacerbated the damage. A forest fuel sampling technique was modified to measure the volume of macro-litter resulting from the ice storm. The canopy was photographed using both wide-angle and fish-eye lenses to determine the effect upon the overstory. Macro-litter volume was determined to be 19.35 m
10.2307/2483432|Agropyron spicatum, 2n=14, was readily cross compatible with Sitanion hystrix, 2n=28. Thirty-six triploid hybrids, 2n=21, were produced on 5 unemasculated A. spicatum spikes when exposed to S. hystrix pollen. The synthetic and natural hybrids were morphologically indistinguishable, and their vegetative and spike characteristics were intermediate between those of the parent species. The hybrids closely resembled the description of A. saxicola. Comparison of synthetic and natural hybrids with the type specimen of A. saxicola confirmed the widespread suspicion that A. saxicola is actually a hybrid of A. spicatum x S. hystrix. The parent species and their natural and synthetic hybrids were examined cytologically to determine chromosome pairing relations. Both parent species were meiotically regular and fertile. The A. spicatum parent formed an average of 0.10 I and 6.95 II per cell in 187 cells interpreted at metaphase I, whereas the S. hystrix parent averaged 0.04 I and 13.98 II per cell in 142 cells. The hybrids were cytologically irregular at all meiotic stages and produced no seed. In 136 cells observed at metaphase I, the natural hybrids averaged 7.01 I, 6.94 II, and 0.04 III per cell; and the synthetic hybrids averaged 7.18 I, 6.84 II, and 0.05 III in 125 cells. Chromosome pairing in the hybrids was attributed to allosyndetic pairing of A. spicatum and S. hystrix chromosomes. The A. spicatum genome is apparently closely homologous with 1 of the 2 S. hystrix genomes. Genome formulae of A. spicatum, S. hystrix, and their hybrids were written as AA, AABB, and AAB, respectively.
10.2307/2484200|Analysis of the vegetation and soils of eastern North Dakota grassland reveals six major plant communities occupying a soil salinity-moisture gradient: Distichlis on wet, very strongly saline surface soil and strongly saline subsoil, Hordeum on wet strongly saline surface soil and very strongly saline subsoils, Spartina on moderately saline surface soil and subsoils of wet lowlands, Muhlenbergia on wet to moist sites with non-saline surface soil and strongly saline subsoil, Andropogon on moist to wet locations with non-saline surface soil and moderately saline subsoil, and Poa on a range of soils typically nonsaline and dry but sometimes moist with slightly saline surface soil and strongly saline subsoil. Soils with extremely high concentrations of soluble salts support zoned halophytic communities characterized by Salicornia and Puccinellia. The boundaries between communities may be abrupt or gradual, depending on the nature of the environmental gradient.
10.2307/2483736|Dormancy of the seeds of Astragalus tennesseensis Gray is due to the presence of an impermeable "hard" outer seed coat, a tough inner seed coat, and possibly an inhibitory substances(s) in the seed. It was found that the inner seed coat prevents germination of imbibed seeds by (1) exerting mechanical resistance to expansion and growth of the embryo and by (2) retarding the leaching of an inhibitory substance(s) from the embryo. Maximum percentage of germination was obtained at 25
10.2307/2996208|Aboveground and belowground net primary productivity estimates of the dominant angiosperms from two tidal marshes along the Delaware Bay estuary are reported. Ash, carbon and nitrogen content of the aboveground and belowground components were also determined. Annual net aboveground production was determined by the peak live standing crop method and the Smalley (1958) method. Aerial production of tall Spartina alterniflora Loisel. at the Canary Creek salt marsh, employing the Smalley technique, was 1487 g m
10.2307/2483314|When one lateral in a whorl of Pinus strobus L. is excised, it is found that the two laterals flanking the gap tend to displace horizontally and thereby tend to close the gap. This adjustment of form appears attributable to the formation of compression wood which becomes displaced away from the gap by an average of 21
10.2307/2484380|Two small slash-pile burns in clearings in central New York were colonized by seedlings of Rhus typhina. Since Rhus seedlings were confined to the burned areas, it is likely that the seedlings arose from buried seeds.
10.2307/2996626|In a brackish wetland dominated by Typha angustifolia, we found similar aboveground and belowground production at three sites which had very different salinity regimes. There were, however, significant differences between the three areas in shoot density, height, and biomass. Density was greatest in the site with highest salinity while height and biomass were greatest at the site with lowest salinity. There were also differences in the distribution of belowground biomass with roots and rhizomes restricted to shallower depths at the site with highest salinity. Long-term study plots in one area have shown that interannual changes in salinity can result in an almost 75% difference in net aboveground biomass.
10.2307/2995900|The vegetation of subalpine forests in the southwestern Virginia Balsam Mountains (Mount Rogers and Whitetop) was examined and compared to that of similar forests in the Great Smoky Mountains Differences in latitude and longitude were considered in comparing zonal distribution patterns The spruce-fir (Picea rubens-Abies fraseri) forest on Mount Rogers is similar in composition and distribution to those of the Great Smokies at equivalent elevations In contrast to Mount Rogers, subalpine forests on Whitetop are devoid of fir, although the upper 158 m seem environmentally suitable for its growth. It is believed that during the post-Wisconsin xerothermic period, fir was eliminated from Whitetop but found refuge on the taller Mount Rogers Although fir has been able to extend its range downward since the xerothermic period, it has been unable to cross the relatively low elevation gap separating the two mountains. Spruce forests, which might be expected to cover slopes between 1190 m and 1525 m in the Virginia Balsams, do not extend below 1430 m This seemingly truncated distribution may be a result of past human disturbance, but no substantive evidence is available The future structure of aphid-infested spruce-fir forests in the southern Appalachians may be predicted by examining the spruce forests on Whitetop, particularly at those elevations which are suitable for the development of spruce-fir
10.2307/2997088|Site factors, vegetation, and floras were determined for a chronosequence of five stands in order to characterize vegetation changes during succession. The stands were 2- and 10-year herb-dominated old fields, 50-year savanna-like old field, and 90-year and old-growth forests. Diversity was lowest in the 10-year old field and highest, along with species richness, in the 50-year, savanna-like stand. Percentages of both annuals and biennials (including short-lived perennials) in the flora decreased, while perennial herbs and woody plants increased. Biennials decreased and woody plants increased in relative cover in the ground layer, while annuals initially decreased and increased thereafter and perennial herbs initially increased and were relatively low in the forests. These findings are related to the interaction of several factors, as evidenced in other studies: chance events and disturbance as related to patch dynamics, time for accumulation of species, life-history characteristics of the available flora, development of a tree stratum, and site-specific history and environment.
10.2307/2997146|1. The thiamine, riboflavin, niacin and ascorbic acid content has been determined in 32 species of plants collected at the Point Barrow Base Camp, Alaska. All plants contain these vitamins, though the two species of lichens were very low in all of them. 2. Riboflavin is quite high and for most plants is around 11.0 and 14.0 micrograms per gram of dry material, but all the others vary greatly in the species studied.
10.2307/2483473|Ichnanthus tonkinensis, section Foveolata, from Vietnam is described as new.
10.2307/2481914|1. The structure of the shoot apex of Gnetum gnemon is described. The superficial layer has attained the status of a true tunica. It is discrete at the summit but contributes to the inner tissues of the foliar buttress and rarely may show periclinal divisions on the flanks. 2. The summit of the corpus is occupied by a group of initials which give rise to a flanking mantle of actively dividing cells and to a zone of underlying central mother cells. The flanking layers divide by both periclinal and anticlinal divisions. Division is in all planes in the central mother cell zone but is less frequent than in the flanking layers. The cells often appear in blocks, may be highly vacuolate and larger than their neighbors. A rib meristem is derived from the periphery of the central mother cell zone. During the initiation and early growth of the leaf primordia anticlinal divisions disrupt the rib meristem but it is reconstituted later in the first internode. 3. A comparison is made between the structure of the apex of Gnetum gnemon and that of other gymnosperms and angiosperms. It is concluded that Gnetum has attained the angiospermous level in the possession of a distinct tunica and corpus but that a gymnospermous trend is reflected in the organization of the central mother cell zone recalling the condition seen in the cycads and Ginkgo.
10.2307/2995911|The importance of tree bases as foci of spring herb growth, and the association of trees and herb distributions with microenvironmental gradients, were examined in Kilmer Woods, a central New Jersey forest dominated by Acer rubrum, A saccharum, Quercus borealis, and Q alba For Erythronium americanum and Podophyllum peltatum, there were no significant differences in the number of individuals or flowers between sampling plots near to and away from trees In outside sampling plots over the site, however, 60% of flowering Erythronium were located within 1 m of a tree base, while only 7% of flowering plants were further than 2 m from trees Leaf area of Erythronium was significantly greater in plots near trees Offshoot production and flowering data for Erythronium suggest that plants near trees produce fewer asexual offspring and provide greater allocation to bulbs until a flowering threshold is reached No consistent or common patterns of light quantity, soil or air temperature, or nutrient concentrations were found Soil moisture was consistently greater near trees, in the organic layer, and down-slope There was no coincidence of herb growth with proximity to trees or with measured microenvironmental factors
10.2307/2483479|Phytochrome decay in darkness in Avena coleoptiles was studied as the loss in  (O.D.) readings following a brief irradiation with red light which converts phytochrome into the P
10.2307/2482627|1. The inter-relationships and classification of the evergreen grapeferns (Botrychium subg. Sceptridium) are controversial because of subtle and overlapping characters. An investigation was made of characteristics of periodicity and pigmentation which might bear on their systematic interpretation. 2. Of the four taxa involved, the endemic Botrychium oneidense has been treated as a variety or form of the circumboreal B. multifidum and of the endemic B. dissectum or as their possible hybrid. The plant treated here as conspecific with B. ternatum of the Old World has either remained undistinguished or has been classified with B. multifidum or as a form of it. 3. The yearly cycle of these plants in northeastern North America begins with the slow formation of a single leaf, which may or may not expand a fertile "panicle." During winter the sterile leaf blade is evergreen but may turn reddish to bronze, especially when exposed. The new leaf bursts its sheath in May or June, and the previous year's leaf later dies. The maturation of the leaf and its fertile portion takes from three to four months, and is usually completed by September. 4. Environmental factors such as browsing and exposure of habitat affect leaf development; it is therefore necessary to make comparisons on plants from the same habitat. In the present work all specimens in a given site were taken, and the measurements made of total samples or of random selections of the samples. 5. Comparisons of vernation show that B. dissectum is the last to develop in the spring (early June); B. ternatum is slightly earlier; B. oneidense considerably earlier; and B. multifidum starts the earliest (est. late April, early May). The same periodicity relationships between taxa were found at each locality and apply as well to juvenile as adult plants. 6. The unfolding leaf primordia may be red or green. Botrychium dissectum and B. ternatum are pale scarlet or reddish, but those of B. oneidense and B. multifidum are green or pale green when first unfolding. 7. As the sporangia mature in August and September they change from green to yellow to brown. Periodicity of sporangial maturation follows the same sequence in the different taxa as primordial development, though less clearly. 8. Reddish pigmentation of the axes of mature blades in September and early October varies with habitat, but shows definite differences in the same habitat: B. dissectum and B. ternatum have the most extensive reddish pigmentation, B. multifidum and B. oneidense the least. 9. Leaf thickness does not seem to differ significantly between the taxa, but may be altered by habitat. However, the texture of the leaves may involve other factors than laminar thickness alone. 10. Botrychium oneidense differs in periodicity and pigmentation from all of the other taxa. The green color of its primordial leaf blades is evidently an absolute point of distinction between it and B. dissectum. 11. Botrychium ternatum is more like B. dissectum in periodicity and pigmentation than either B. oneidense or B. multifidum. On the basis of the characters studied here, a closer relationship to B. multifidum than B. dissectum seems unlikely. 12. The conclusions of these observations, when combined with previously known facts, suggest that the most accurate taxonomic treatment is to recognize each of the four taxa as distinct, though closely related, species.
10.2307/2996968|Both Talinum calcaricum Ware of the shallow soil of limestone outcrops and T. mengesii Wolf of similar habitat on sandstone outcrops were greatly reduced in growth in competition with the grass Poa pratensis L., and both were less inhibited as grass density decreased. Talinum mengesii was inhibited by both clipped (=root) competition and whole plant competition (includes shading), though more intensely by the latter. Talinum calcaricum was inhibited only by whole plant competition (=shading), and artificial decrease in light intensity also produced growth inhibition even without competition. Both species were inhibited on the other's soil type, even without competition or reduced light intensity. In an experiment involving only T. calcaricum, increasing drought stress reduced its growth, but reduced the grass competitor's growth much more, making T. calcaricum a relatively better competitor at lower moisture levels. Results are consistent with the notion that plants of the shallow soil of rock outcrops are very poor competitors (especially for light), but can survive in their habitats because of greater drought resistance than potential competitors.
10.2307/2484733|Spore morphology of the remaining 28 of the 62 species not treated in our previous paper is described. Spores of 14 species, members of 5 genera, are monolete; spores of 14 other species, belonging to 7 genera, are trilete. A perine is present in 20 of the species, in 3 it is reduced, and in 5 it is absent. Sculpture is mostly scabrate, echinate or verrucate and mean sizes vary from 33  (Dennstaedtia punctilobula) to 86  (Cheilanthes feei). Classification of the 28 species into 12 genera based on gross morphology is confirmed by spore morphology in most instances, and the taxonomic affinities of the 12 genera are discussed. Of the monolete genera, Phyllitis, Camptosorus, and Asplenium form a closely related group, whereas Woodwardia and Polypodium appear to have evolved independently. Of the trilete genera, Cheilanthes and Notholaena appear to be cogeneric and show a close affinity to Pellaea, whereas Cryptogramma, Adiantum, Pteridium, and Dennstaedtia are monotypic with no close relatives in northeastern North America. A species key and photomicrographs are included. The classification of the Polypodiaceae by Fernald (1950) is compared with that of Copeland (1947).
10.2307/2483856|Evaporative water loss in the foliose lichen, Parmelia conspersa and the marchantiaceous liverwort, Reboulia hemisphaerica was examined in the context of a total energy exchange between the plant and its environment (disregarding metabolism). Transpiration proceeds rapidly from moist plants and resistance is very low. As transpiration decreases, the relative importance of both convection and reradiation as energy dissipating mechanisms increases. Additionally, since both organisms lack effective means of controlling transpiration, resistance increases in proportion to the decreased water loss. Parmelia dried quickly under a total radiation flux of 3.0 cal cm
10.2307/2483642|The type species of Capnodiopsis P. Hennings was examined and found to be different from the original interpretation as a unique capnodiaceous fungus. Its position in the Myriangiales as Molleriella punctoidea (Rehm) Arnaud is confirmed.
10.2307/2482285|1. A microscopic analysis of the component parts of the basidiocarp seems to be a valuable tool for the determination of relationships among the stipitate Stereums. Using this method, relationships which have been previously overlooked are brought to light. 2. It is suggested that S. aurantiacum and S. diaphanum might be varieties. The same suggestion is offered as regards S. pusiolum and S. radicans. 3. It was found that S. cyphelloides, S. aurantiacum and S. diaphanum form a homogenous group within the stipitate Stereums. This group is characterized by its lack of clamp-connections and gloeocystidia and its monomitic hyphal construction. 4. S. pusiolum and S. radicans are the only other stipitate Stereums investigated which are monomitic, bear clamp-connections and have gloeocystidia. These species form a second group of related forms. 5. With the exception of the trimitic S. hydrophorum whose relationship is vague, all other stipitate Stereums discussed here are dimitic with skeletal hyphae, bear clamp-connections and are gloeocystidiate. 6. S. flabellatum has been found to be only a chlamydospore-bearing phase of S. elegans.
10.2307/2484121|Greenhouse tests show that Carex plantaginea and C. platyphylla are self-compatible and will set high percentages of seed when selfed. Only eight other Carex species are known to be self-compatible. The restricted pollen flow of these two species, coupled to self-compatability, may allow for more genetic subdivision of their populations.
10.2307/2996490|Marble parent material is a unique geological feature in north Georgia which, on steep lower north-facing slopes with seepage, accommodates equally unique soils and vegetation On lower north slopes, within 35 m distance from the stream, herb species cover is positively correlated with soil N, B, Ca, Zn, pH, and moisture and negatively correlated with soil Al, Fe, and Mo. Herb species diversity responds in an opposite manner to these same variables. Species on the study site vary in their occurrences as related to soil. Some show few or no significant simple correlations with soil variables. Other species are separable for the most part into two groups: (1) Arisaema triphyllum, Dentaria diphylla and Thalictrum thalictroides occur on more acid, less base-rich soil high in Al and Fe; whereas (2) Athyrium pycnocarpon, Cryptotaenia canadensis, Hydrophyllum canadense, and Impatiens sp, are found on more moist, base-rich, less acid soils with low available Al and Fe Niches are in part described by sets of soil chemical, physical, and moisture "preferences" Some herb species are indicators of soil characteristics; and likewise soil properties are indicators-at least locally-of presence or absence of some herb species Data indicate greatest herb cover on lowest positions and greatest herb diversity near to but up slope from the stream
10.2307/2996083|Branch systems of open- and forest-grown populations of Lonicera maackii(Rupr.) Herder (ages 4-0 years) were compared to assess potential modes ot leal display in different light environments. The branch architecture of open-grown individuals was interpreted as adaptive plasticity. Opengrown individuals when compared to forest-grown individuals were significantly (P < 0.05) taller and wider. This growth form was achieved as a result of increased branching and production of canopy-borne long shoots. The branch architecture expressed by forest-grown L. maackii was interpreted as an indirect response to light limitation rather than adaptive plasticity. Although forest-grown L. maackii expressed branch changes that could potentially maximize height gain (e.g., slower gains in canopy width relative to height gain, less growth in basal stem diameter, and decreased branching), these plants produced few long shoots and were roughly half as tall as open-grown individuals of similar ages. Emergence of L. maackii into a dominant understory position may require threshold light levels so that height gain can be achieved by long shoots released at successively higher canopy positions.
10.2307/2482992|1. The following free amino acids and amides were found in the species and isolates of the fungus Emericellopsis; aspartic acid, glutamic acid, 1 lysine, asparagine, serine, threonine, glutamine, tyrosine, gamma aminobutyric acid, valine, isoleucine and/or leucine, proline and an unknown spot. 2. There was considerable variability in the quantitative amount of these amino acids within and between species. 3. A variance analysis showed that there was significantly more lysine in the E. mirabilis species and its isolates than in the other members of the genus. 4. These data support the evidence for two species, i. e. mirabilis and terricola in the genus Emericellopsis.
10.2307/2482711|White oak and black oak collectively contribute 68 per cent to total basal area of canopy tree species; seedlings of these species are fairly common while saplings are rare. On the other hand, sugar maple and Norway maple collectively contribute less than 1 per cent to total basal area, but seedlings of these two maples are common and their saplings are more common than oak saplings. Sapling growth data for the 1956-58 seasons show that sugar maple saplings grew better in the shaded areas of the forest than did other species studied. The pre-colonial fires appear to have favored the oaks but excluded sugar maple. With the cessation of fire after settlement sugar maple seeded in from a nearby source on the flood plain or, as with Norway maple, from shade tree plantings.
10.2307/2484361|Anthochlor pigments (chalcones and aurones) in the floral heads of Coreopsis gigantea were found to be responsible for the ultraviolet floral pattern present in this species. The pigments of primary importance in producing the UV floral pattern were marein, sulphurein, coreopsin, butein, and sulphuretin. Presence of the anthochlor pigments and the UV floral pattern could be determined by observing a visual color change (yellow to reddish-orange) when the floral heads were exposed to ammonia vapor. This color change, characteristic of anthochlor pigments, is suggested as a simple field test to detect UV floral patterns in those families where anthochlor pigments are known to occur. It was also found that upon drying and storage as herbarium specimens the floral heads of C. gigantea lost their UV pattern, with the entire floral head becoming UV absorptive. We issue a cautionary note on the use of UV floral patterns from dried her barium specimens without direct knowledge of the UV floral patterns in fresh material.
10.2307/2484199|Patterns of species richness, dominance and Brillouin diversity are described for mature forests on serpentine and nonserpentine soils. Where continuous forest canopies can develop, increased dominance and reduced habitat heterogeneity result in lower diversity. Where conditions prevent a continuous canopy from developing, dominance is less pronounced and the habitat is more heterogeneous leading to increased diversity. Within either a continuous or an open forest, increased environmental rigor reduces diversity. A model is presented which details the interactions among rigor, competition, dominance, and habitat heterogeneity.
10.2307/2482934|Mineral composition of the foliage of certain trees and ornamentals was obtained by spectrochemical determination of 23 elements. Statistical analysis of these data indicate more differences in composition between species growing in the same soil than between plants of the same species growing in different soils. There was considerably more random variation in the content of non-essential than essential elements. Some advantages and disadvantages of the use of such data for diagnostic purposes are discussed.
10.2307/2483500|In the last five years two species of the genus Galinsoga Ruiz and Pavon, introduced into the United States from tropical America, have increased in abundance throughout New Jersey and Long Island, especially in fields used for vegetable production. Achenes collected from G. ciliata (Raf.) Blake and G. parviflora Cav. cultivated under similar conditions were compared employing length and width measurements. G. ciliata achenes were found to be significantly shorter and wider than those of G. parviflora. These differences were reflected in lower L/W ratios for G. ciliata. An abundance of minute cotyledonary hairs was observed on seedlings of G. parviflora, while the number of marginal cotyledonary hairs of G. ciliata was small.
10.2307/2482499|1. As a tribute to the botanical work of Carl D. LaRue, this article cites his success in obtaining a tissue culture from the pollen of Taxus. 2. The Taxus tissue is dense, white, and undifferentiated, and consists mainly of elongated "pollen tube" type cells. 3. The white tissue has given rise to a strain which is green and consists of small round cells. The green strain is friable and lacks the elongate type of cell typical of the white tissue. 4. Both strains of tissue will grow on a synthetic medium, but the rate of growth is slow.
10.2307/2996975|The dynamics of woody debris input and decomposition in temperate forest ecosystems are rarely examined. Woody detritus inputs in a mesic deciduous forest in Tennessee were followed from 1976 to 1988. Annual inputs were highly variable with a mean of 3.97 Mg ha
10.2307/2484921|An alternative to stand-age analysis was developed which enabled simple determination of successional trends in the forest canopy species through comparison of each species' DBH distribution. DBH-distribution analysis is shown to be less time consuming yet as accurate as stand-age analysis.
10.2307/2483754|A description of the soils and ponds explored at Mt. Suess is given. The algae collected consist of a green alga, Prasiola crispa, and several blue-greens.
10.2307/2484885|The chromosome-breaking action of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) was tested in Tradescantia paludosa microsporocytes. The dosage levels used were 5 and 10 g/ml. Microsporocytes from treated and control buds were analysed for general cytological effects of the drug, chromosome association and distribution, isolocus breaks and their released fragments, chromatid bridge-fragment configurations at ana-telophase I and II, subchromatid bridge-fragment configurations at ana-telophase I and II and pollen viability. The data presented indicate that 5-FU-induced meiotic anomalies were the consequence of breakage-fusion events accompanied by changes in chiasma distribution and patterns of exchange events. 5-FU interference with a macromolecular synthesizing apparatus, leading to abnormal genetic regulation of meiosis, is postulated to be responsible for the observed changes in chiasma distribution and patterns of exchange events.
10.2307/2996511|The misapplication of the names Hemizonia congesta DC. and Hemizonia corymbosa (DC.) T. & G. has resulted from the lack of critical examination of type specimens, misinterpretation of the protologues of de Candolle, and his failure to distinguish clearly the differences between the ray achene morphology of the species. This has led to confusion with respect to the proper assignment of subsequently collected specimens. Historical events detailing this situation are provided. Typifications and synonymies are given for these species. A new species, Hemizonia leucocephala, is described to accommodate unnamed specimens formerly attributed to H. congesta.
10.2307/2481848|1. Tetrazolium chloride can be reduced to a red insoluble formazan within cells of many plants. This makes visible numerous structures such as mitochondria, plastids, fat droplets, and crystals. The plastids are of various shapes; spheres, coiled filaments, ribbons, and rolled sheets. 2. It was demonstrated that in an emulsion of fat in water produced by ultrasonic vibrations the fat droplets could be stained by formazan. 3. It was further demonstrated that fat droplets of the emulsion could take up formazan previously formed in meristematic cells of root tips. 4. It seems probable, therefore, that tetrazolium chloride is not a specific test for reducing enzymes nor is the occurrence of formazan in a structure proof that it was formed by that structure. 5. Since most plant embryos contain oil which may persist after the death of the embryo (as regards enzymes) and since this oil can be stained under certain conditions, it is not surprising that the TTC test for seed viability is not exact.
10.2307/2484730|The germination of dark-germinating seeds of cucumber is strongly inhibited by continuous exposure to blue, far red or white radiation. About 15-25% of the seeds that do not germinate under continuous blue radiation become green at the distal ends of the cotyledons. The green, non-germinated seeds contain chlorophyll, and their chloroplasts show some development of thylakoids and grana. The green, non-germinated seeds have higher rates of light-dependent oxygen evolution and ATP formation than the non-green, non-germinated seeds. These results indicate that the inhibition of germination does not completely prevent the initiation of the complex and integrated sequence of reactions required for the development of the photosynthetic apparatus.
10.2307/2996286|Vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal spore densities varied among sample areas ranging from 200 cm
10.2307/2482336|1. Casparian strips are present in cells of a specialized layer of the leaf at the ligule base of Isoetes muricata var. Braunii.2. The name ligule-endodermis is suggested for this specialized tissue. 3. A considerable supply of tracheids are present at the ligule base and are very closely associated with the endodermis, many of them being in contact with the walls of the endodermal cells. 4. The ligule-endodermis of I. muricata var. Braunii and I. macrospora are alike in structure but differ in nuclear and cell size. 5. The presence of a ligule-endodermis in two species of Isoetes indicate the probability of its occurrence in other species of the genus. 6. The location of the ligule-endodermis, its high degree of development, and its association with vascular tissue seem to indicate that it is related functionally to the ligule. The writer wishes to thank Dr. Eugene S. McDonough and Dr. William N. Steil for critical reading of the note and examination of the preparations.
10.2307/2482989|1. Turtle grass, Thalassia testudinum, is abundant in the shallow wellilluminated waters of Puerto Rico and other tropical areas. The standing crop of Thalassia, ranging up to about 33 tons per acre, provides shelter for many species of animals, and contains large amounts of basic foodstuffs, in the form of proteins 13%, crude fiber 16%, and other carbohydrates 36%. 2. Among thc 12 amino acids assayed, the most abundant were aspartic and glutamic acids, arginine, lysine and leucine. Tryptophan was relatively scarce. 3. Marine bacteria convert organic constituents of Thalassia to microparticulate food suitable for protozoa, which are in turn available to smaller and larger animals. 4. Some fishes, notably the ballahoo, may feed almost exclusively on leaves of Thalassia at certain times. 5. Much work remains to be done on the ecology of Thalassia and its contribution in the cycle of productivity through intermediary conversion by bacteria and protozoa.
10.2307/2484416|Seeds of the annual plant species Helenium amarum (Compositae) germinated to low percentages in continuous darkness. However, three to five exposures to daily photoperiods of 1 to 60 min greatly increased the percentage of germination over the dark controls. The amount of germination obtained at a particular photoperiod depends on the number of times the photoperiod is given and on the temperature. At 20
10.2307/2483977|Leaf buds in virus infected plants of tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill. variety Crack Proof) were observed in the axillary position along the rachis. Factors causing leaf bud formation in tomato are discussed in the light of relevant literature. It is suggested that the study of material accumulation and hormonal level in different transient stages of plant, i. e. normal, growth up to the stage of leaf bud formation may throw some light on the mechanism of normal organogenesis in higher plants
10.2307/2483672|In a plant of Aloe vera L. a part of root system was found to have diminished chromosome number 2n = 10 rather than 2n = 14. The missing chromosomes could be recognized. The pollen mother cells had regular 2n = 14. Meiotic anomalies like asynapsis, lagging chromosomes, bridges with or without fragments and side loops (side arms), and delayed disjunction of some bivalents were noted. Possible origins of such aberrations are discussed.
10.2307/2996389|A number of studies have tested whether reproductive effort (RE) is correlated with successional maturity; in these, annuals generally had higher RE than herbaceous perennials (29 and 13%), and RE in herbs often diminished as succession progressed. It is not clear whether these patterns were the result of phenotypic or genetic variation.
10.2307/2996318|When the first-formed, velamentous aerial root of Spathoglottis plicata (Orchidaceae) attached to meprotocorm was incubated in
10.2307/2484548|Vaucheria longicaulis Hoppaugh var. longicaulis is reported here for the first time from near oligohaline habitat in Basrah, Iraq.
10.2307/2483294|Results in a recent report on experimentally induced oospore variation in Chara are difficult to compare with the results of a systematic study cited. A discussion is submitted to indicate some problems involved and some information desired, hoping that this will be helpful in future work of this kind.
10.2307/2482518|1 The chlorophyll a and chlorophyll b content of 75 samples of green, oolong and black tea have been determined by a spectrophotometric method. 2. The average total chlorophyll content of the green teas examined was 1.39 mg./gm. Comparable figures for oolong and black teas were 0.82 mg/gm and 1.01 mg./gm respectively. 3. The percentage of chlorophyll a averaged 81.1 per cent in green teas, 78 5 per cent in oolong teas and 70 9 per cent in black teas.
10.2307/2483295|Among the major scientific problems of the Nuclear Age are those which deal with the collection of data and the development of concepts to be used in making realistic, quantitative evaluations of the biological hazards, if any, resulting from increased environmental radiation due to fallout. This paper presents a brief review of some of the ecological aspects of these problems. The major topics considered are: (a) the kinds and amounts of "natural" and "man-made" sources of ionizing radiation in the biosphere, (b) the formation and dispersal of fallout, including a comparison of local, tropospheric and stratospheric fallout patterns, (c) the redistribution of fallout materials by environmental processes, their accumulation by plants and animals, and their cycling in terrestrial food-chains, and (d) the evaluation of potential biological hazards arising from small increases in external and internal exposure of organisms to ionizing radiation.
10.2307/2482158|1. Respiratory response of four species of monocots and three species of dicots to change in acidity and to maleic hydrazide was investigated. 2. The effect of increase in acidity alone from pH 6.0 to pH 4.0 was to stimulate respiration in pea, sunflower, maize, barley and oat; while under similar conditions respiration in tomato and wheat was depressed. 3. Respiration of root tips of none of the species tested was appreciably affected by maleic hydrazide at pH 6.0; but as the maleic hydrazide solutions were increased in acidity oxygen consumption of all seven species decreased. 4. Respiration of barley, wheat, and oat roots was more severely affected by all concentrations of maleic hydrazide used-0.05, 0.10, 0.20, and 0.40 per cent-than roots of any of the other plants tested. Pea and maize roots were most resistant to maleic hydrazide poisoning, while those proving intermediate in response were sunflower and tomato. 5. Inhibition of respiration in maize and oat by maleic hydrazide increased with time. 6. Possible modes of action of maleic hydrazide on the respiratory mechanism are discussed.
10.2307/2996322|Pines readily invade small old fields in the southeastern United States,but continuing observations on a large old field in South Carolina have indicated limited initial invasion and subsequently poor reproductive success by loblolly pines. To generate hypotheses concerning the poor reproductive success of pines, studies were conducted of seed production, seedling establishment, and seedling survival and growth. Production of viable seeds was similar to data for other loblolly pine sites, but seed dispersal distances were short with most seeds being deposited within 20 m of the parent. The rate of establishment of 1 yr old seedlings was  1 seedling per 3000 viable seeds, which was small compared to data for other loblolly pine sites. Most seedlings were established within 20 m of their parents. Once established, seedlings showed survivorship and growth that was typical for loblolly pines. These initial results suggest: 1) that the most important limitation to reproductive success may be the low rates of seedling establishment from seeds; but 2) that limited seed dispersal distances may represent an important secondary limitation.
10.2307/2996228|In 1982 an organizational framework for the ordering of algal toxicity responses was proposed (Rachlin et al. 1982). This framework assumed that physiological responses were, in fact, character states, and therefore could be ordered by linking these responses to the organismic relationships deduced through the methodology of phylogenetic systematics. That is, closely related species should respond to environmental stress in a similar fashion. The original test was based on growing and testing organisms under optimal conditions. If the proposed framework is to have utility it must also operate under less than optimal conditions. This study tested this notion. Three algal species Chlorella saccharophila, Navicula incerta, and Nitzschia closterium were cultured under identical and non-optimal growth conditions and then challenged with the metal toxicant cadmium for 96 hours under static conditions. Logarithmic response curves for the test Cadmium concentrations were generated and the respective slopes were found to be -1.27, -1.65, and -1.57. Analysis of covariance indicated no significant difference in the response rates of the two diatoms Navicula and Nitzschia but each was significantly different from the response rate of the chlorophyte Chlorella. These results are consistent with the framework's prediction that organisms more closely related to each other will respond to environmental stress in a more consistent fashion than either will when compared to less closely related taxa; this, regardless of whether they are grown under optimal conditions or not. Hence, the proposed organizational framework holds and has predictive value.
10.2307/2996466|To monitor survival, reproduction, and seedling recruitment of Pedicularis furbishiae S. Wats. (Furbish's lousewort), a restricted riverbank endemic, we established permanent plots at seven sites. Within sites, plants were concentrated in a horizontal band only 1-2 m wide, which makes the populations vulnerable to local disturbances and suggests that very specific conditions favor Pedicularis growth. Density, percentage of plants in each size class, and the quantities of inflorescences and seeds produced varied considerably among populations. Seedlings emerged from late June through August, except at one site which completely lacked seedlings Eighty-one per cent of the seedlings survived the summer; survival was higher at sites with wetter soil. Seedlings occurred disproportionately on moss rather than on bare soil, gravel, or litter. Flower initiation and number of inflorescences produced were positively correlated with plant size, although dense cover reduced seed output. Disturbance, as ice scour or bank slumping, destroys individual plants and creates conditions inhospitable for immediate colonization, but it seems important in maintaining suitable habitat, since dense vegetation appeared to limit lousewort density Pedicularis furbishiae's rarity can be described by its narrow ecological "windows" both in time and in space.
10.2307/2996335|This study of bur oak (Quercus macrocarpa) in east-central Illinois examines some ecological consequences of the variation in seed number per acorn. The frequency of double-seeded acorns ranges from 0-20% per tree (n = 17 trees). Insect damage of acorns per tree ranges from 43-100%. Such infestation reduces the probability of germination per seed. At least one seed escapes insect damage more often in double- than single-seeded acorns. In double-seeded acorns, a seed's weight is approximately one-half that of single-seeded acorns of the same tree, but the proportion of acorn biomass allocated to seeds is similar in the two types of acorns. Germination of the two seeds is fairly synchronous in double-seeded acorns. The resulting two seedlings are smaller in size and biomass at 10 mo than single seedlings but survive equally well under greenhouse conditions. Conflicting selection pressures have the potential to maintain some variability in seed number per acorn a single tree produces.
10.2307/2996493|Pontederia rootstocks do not require low temperature treatment to produce shoots and the lack of a required stratification period enables established Pontederia plants to have the longest possible growing season. Seeds are dormant at time of dispersal in late summer and autumn and will not germinate until they have been stratified for 6-8 weeks After stratification, seeds germinate best at constant or alternating temperatures greater than 20
10.2307/2996856|A well-known experiment published by Sagar (1959), Harper et al. (1965) and Harper (1977) showed that microsite variation had dramatic effects on the germination behavior of Plantago seeds, P. lanceolata in particular, and in part led to the formulation of the "safe site" concept for germination. We repeated this experiment as closely as possible both indoors and outdoors. In our study, microsite variation had no effect on P. lanceolata, contrary to the published results, and no effects were observed in P. major and P. aristata. The controls were never different from the experimental treatments. The previously published P. lanceolata results were not correlated with our results, showing that the trends of the results were not even the same. Our results illustrate the difficulties of attempting to repeat ecological experiments, particularly those involving seed germination in natural conditions.
10.2307/2482920|1. On the basis of all extant descriptions of Commelina; on the fact of the acceptance of the genus Commelinantia by the only two recent eminent workers to monograph the Commelinaceae on a world-wide scope; on a current re-examination and comparison of living material of both genera by myself; on the fact that the species anomala in question (and C. pringlei as well) is excluded from Commelina by the very key by which Dr. Woodson seeks to include it in that genus; and on the basis of strikingly dissimilar chromosome complements-on all of these bases, Commelinantia would appear to be a valid genus. Note. The known geographic range of C. anomala is from the flood plain of the Nueces River in Nueces County (doubtless brought down by flood waters from the Edwards Plateau) to the moist, shaded, limestone slopes of the Edwards Plateau in central Texas and similar slopes northeastward to the vicinity of Dallas County. It is abundant in the vicinity of Austin, and we have cultivated it in sandy garden soil on The University of Texas campus. I have never observed it to suffer from frostbite in this vicinity and am confident that it may be grown outside, at least as far north as the latitude of Dallas. I shall be glad to furnish both herbarium sheets and seeds to anyone interested in deciding for himself the taxonomic position of this very interesting plant.
10.2307/2483308|Individual germinating seed samples are exposed to x-rays at five, 24-hour-intervals and then returned to controlled growing conditions. Collections of nonirradiated plant material are made at the same five, 24-hour-intervals for the purpose of DNA estimation and anatomical-cytological information. Dry weights of root material are determined after a 30-day growth period. The average nuclear volume of the root meristem cells increases and reaches a maximum at 48 hours. The amount of DNA per meristem cell reaches a peak at 72 hours. The highest radioresistance is at 24 hours and the greatest radiosensitivity is at the 72-hour DNA peak or 24 hours after the maximum nuclear volume enlargement. These findings indicate that in a vegetative organ the amount of DNA per cell is more strongly correlated with radiosensitivity than is nuclear volume.
10.2307/2482566|Transverse and longitudinal sections of galls of Melanopsichium pennsylanicum Hirschh., growing on Polygonum lapathifolium, revealed the presence of spherical locular sori embedded in gall tissue. Teliospores extruded from locular sori formed tortuous smut tendrils on the outer surfaces of galls. These spores were nonpulverulent, being embedded in a gelatinous matrix. They germinated normally by promycelia with both lateral and terminal sporidia. Sporidial cultures on PDA grew best at 26-28
10.2307/2482971|1. A previously unrecognized cultivated pepper. Capsicum sinense Jacq., is reported from Central and South America. This species is most readily distinguished by the 3-5 flowers at each node, the declinate pedicels, and the circular constriction at the base of the calyx in fruit. 2. Crosses between C. sinense and both C. annuum and C. frutescens, to which it appears most closely related, generally give hybrids showing some impairment of fertility. Notes on the geographical distribution of the other cultivated peppers, C. annuum, C. frutescens, C. pendulum, and C. pubescens, are also presented.
10.2307/2484735|The major stages of development of the gynodioecious rush, Juncus roemerianus Scheele, representative of both plant forms as based on the occurrence of pistillate and perfect flowers, are traced through the basic differences in floral morphology, seed production, germination, seedling and mature plant development. In Mississippi, J. roemerianus flowers from mid-winter to mid-spring. The seeds have a light requirement for germination and are highly viable. Seedling development proceeds in a one-plane (abaxial-adaxial) fashion illustrative of the single rhizomes of the mature plant, which is often obscured by the habit of growth. The significance of the major features of this species' life history is discussed in terms of its ecology.
10.2307/2484714|A vegetation analysis of the tree component was conducted within the undisturbed, old-growth element of the Boiling Springs Natural Area, a Society of American Foresters Natural Area in the upper Coastal Plain of South Carolina. Compositionally, the tree component (stems greater than 7.6 cm dbh) is dominated by sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua), yellow-poplar (Liriodendron tulipifera), and loblolly pine (Pinus taeda). Within the old-growth element, the density-diameter distribution curve is of the rotated sigmoid form rather than the inversed J-shaped curve. Vertical structure, interaction between understory and overstory, species composition, and species life history characteristics contribute to this rotated sigmoid form.
10.2307/2997073|Barbula rufofusca is described as a new species from southeast Alaska and northern British Columbia. It differs from species resembling it in the weakly papillose leaf cells, and in the costa which lacks definite stereid bands.
10.2307/2482783|1. The hybrid fern, Asplenium ebenoides (A. platyneuron x A. rhizophyllum) occurs in nature as a sterile diploid over a wide range, and also as a fertile allopolyploid limited narrowly to Hale Co., Alabama. Asplenium ebenoides has been synthesized in culture, and has been backcrossed with A. platyneuron, but no new fertile allopolyploids have been heretofore produced under experimental conditions. 2. A new and distinctive allopolyploid form of A. ebenoides arose spontaneously in cultures produced by sowing large numbers of spores and sporangia from a sterile diploid form collected in Montgomery Co., Maryland. A total of about twenty-five gametophytes, appearing as clustered groups or as solitary individuals, was produced among thousands of spores. Fertilization among these gametophytes yielded a uniform type of sporophyte, resembling the sterile diploid progenitor. 3. The new allopolyploid differs from the wild Alabama type in a number of characters, including the blade texture, blade color, outline of leaf, breadth of leaf-segments, number of dwarfed segments, form of the segment margins, and the outline of the gametophytic wings. The new allopolyploid reproduces as readily from spores as does the wild type. 4. The rarity of allopolyploid populations of ferns in nature is briefly discussed, and a series of factors is suggested to account for it: (1) the small number of polyploid spores produced by the sterile diploid; (2) the necessity for the polyploid spores to fall in narrowly defined microhabitats; (3) competition with the gametophytes of normal species in the same habitat; and (4) a tendency for gametophytes to require cross-fertilization. 5. Because of the close resemblance of the allopolyploid to its sterile diploid progenitor and because of its morphological distinctness from the previously known allopolyploid from Alabama, the suggestion is made that varying forms of species of this evolutionary origin may be due to genetic differences between parental races in different localities.
10.2307/2484450|Hypoxis longii, originally on the endangered species list, is now known from 11 counties in 5 states: Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, Texas, and Virginia (type location). Full description of the species is given based on numerous recent collections. Its habitat is Loblolly pine (Pinus taeda)-hardwood forests with sparse understory. Since it is always associated with Loblolly pine, this overlooked species is expected to be found throughout the Coastal Plain where P. taeda is common.
10.2307/2997068|Differences between leaves of coconut trees in an early stage of cadang-cadang and those of healthy trees were confined to the yellow spots, no differences being found in the green portions of the leaves. In more advanced stages, the differences extended even to green areas adjacent to the yellow areas. Leaves from trees in medium and advanced stages of the disease were significantly thinner than those from healthy trees. The difference in thickness is due to the small size of all types of cells, there being little or no difference in their numbers. The palisade cells are not only small and compact but are irregularly-arranged rather than in tiers. Mesophyll cells are rounded rather than angular. The differences observed seem to be due to incomplete or arrested development of all types of cells in the leaf and to necrosis of some of the cells in the characteristic yellow spots. Disintegration of chloroplasts seems to be a characteristic symptom of cadang-cadang and it proceeds slowly from cells in the yellow spots to cells in the adjacent green tissue in a manner distinguishable from that which occurs in yellow spots caused by feeding punctures of various arthropods.
10.2307/2483332|In order to assess the relative importance of physical and biotic environments in plant distributions, adults and seeds of several species native to Michigan, where the work was done, were planted on all parts of a soil moisture gradient in cultivated plots, lacking natural understory vascular plant interaction. Another experiment in a clearcut transect along the same gradient furnished supplementary data. Most species survived, grew, germinated, flowered and fruited nearly uniformly from excessively- to imperfectly-drained soils, even if naturally restricted to a part of these soils or absent from them. Where differences were present, there was no demonstrable relation between species' performances and their natural distributions, either on these soils or under the more extreme conditions of an intermittently flooded bog and a clearcut upland area. Under moderate conditions, therefore, natural distributions may be restricted primarily by interactions, and physical factors may act indirectly, through influences upon interactive potential. But severe suppression of survival and growth under the more extreme conditions suggests that physical factors may be more directly limiting here. Recent transplants may differ from established plants in ability to survive these extreme conditions, however. Slightly more marked differences in general for flowering, fruiting, germination and seedling survival than for adult survival suggest that the former stages in the life cycle may be the more vulnerable, but for growth measurements, they may merely reflect greater sensitivity to statistical tests.
10.2307/2484067|In Cliftonia monophylla the anther wall consists of four layers and the tapetum is of the secretory type. Many cells of the epidermis, endothecium and middle layer contain tannin. Both normal and aposporous embryo sacs develop in the same ovule. A single archesporial initial in the micropylar part of the nucellus produces monosporic, 8-nucleate embryo sac of the Polygonum type, whereas 5 to 7 cells that differentiate in the chalazal end form aposporous embryo sacs of the Hieracium type. The aposporous embryo sacs are functionless and the embryo is produced only from the normal gametophyte.
10.2307/2995953|Two field experiments were performed to determine if reproductive allocation in 3- to 4-year-old Artemisia tridentata ssp. vaseyana (Rydb.) Beetle, mountain big sagebrush, was affected by spatial dispersion pattern and by small additions of water and/or nitrogen fertilizer In the spatial dispersion study, most measures of reproductive allocation were higher for plants growing singly compared to plants growing in clumps of four shrubs. Total achene biomass and the ratio of total reproductive biomass production/vegetative biomass production (a measure of reproductive effort) for 1984 were much higher for plants growing in a regular pattern In the water and nitrogen fertilizer study, addition of water and fertilizer decreased reproductive effort in 1983, while addition of water alone increased reproductive effort in 1984. Different expressions of reproductive effort yielded very different numerical values. Reproductive allocation increased from the first to the second year of the study
10.2307/2481842|1. The amino acids present in acid hydrolyzed casein, with the exceptions of L-hydroxyglutamic acid and L-serine but including L-tryptophan, were tested for biological activity toward Streptomyces scabies. 2. Melanin production and growth of S. scabies in a synthetic medium containing L-tyrosine were stimulated by single additions of arginine, lysine, histidine, aspartic acid and glutamic acid, (L-isomers). 3. Growth of the organism was inhibited by tyrosine, when this was the only amino acid present, but with additions of stimulatory amino acids, singly or in combinations, growth increased progressively as tyrosine was utilized. 4. In shake cultures the maximum yield of exogenous melanin (under defined conditions and assuming there was no change in molecular weight in the conversion of tyrosine to melanin) was 13.01 per cent of the tyrosine metabolized.
10.2307/2996106|Twenty-five sandstone glade sites in the Arkansas Ozarks were surveyed for vegetation and soil characteristics The soil factors were similar to those of other glade types reported in the literature with the exception that the Calico Rock glades had a wide range of soil pH. The mean soil depth was 4 2 cm; 86 4% of all soil measurements were less than 10 cm Juniperus virginiana was the most common tree species, and the mean basal area for all trees was only 2 8 m
10.2307/2996100|Scanning electron microscopy was used to examine foliar surfaces of Fagus grandifolia and the species of Castanea native in eastern North America Six trichome types are recognized in this survey: simple, bulbous, solitary, acicular, fasciculate, and stellate Fagus has the first four of these and exhibits seasonal as well as ecotypic and geographic variation in the density of the vestiture, but lacks a consistent qualitative difference correlated with the proposed races or infraspecific taxa. Castanea has all six trichome types and there are some differences in trichome complements and density that are taxonomically useful There are two cuticular types represented plus the presence of epicuticular wax in some taxa
10.2307/2996340|Two decades of vegetation change, under a fire-protected, post-hurricane regime in southeastern Connecticut, reveal a strong tendency to return to pre-disturbance conditions. Various oaks (Quercus spp.) remained dominant, and black birch (Betula lenta) declined rapidly, as forest age structure matured. Following the 1938 hurricane, the reestablishment of hemlock (Tsuga canadensis), chiefly on former hemlock-oak sites, was rapid. Factor analysis suggested three major statistical quantities; an oak forest factor, a storm disturbance factor, and a post-agricultural factor, which together accounted for 37% of the quadrat-to-quadrat variance samples. Transition probability analysis was useful as a format for portraying historical change, although it was found to lack predictive value in the study area. Expectations of future change include the continued dominance of oak and an increase of hemlock where it was present prior to the hurricane. Given fire protection, expansion of hemlock into oak hardwood sites is expected, but will be slow and will occur principally around rock outcrops and windthrow gaps where site conditions are especially favorable for its establishment.
10.2307/2482049|1. Clappertonia is an African genus of Tiliaceae with two closely related species differing greatly in habit of growth and ecological requirements. 2 C. ficifolia was found at five widely separated stations to have a 2n-number of 36 chromosomes : C. minor, at two stations to have the same number. Chromosomes are small. Determinations were from leaf smears. 3. C. ficifolia holds some promise as a commercial source of a jute-like fiber. The plant grows rapidly either from seed or from cuttings. It prefers a wet habitat.
10.2307/2996839|Bruniaceae have peculiar leaf tips, composed of thin walled cells containing reddish-brown accumulations; these cells often break open at maturity. Files of cells (which also contain the deposits) are produced by a meristem subadjacent to the tip cells; no hydathode occurs at the leaf tip, and no lateral teeth are present on leaves. All of these features occur in Geissoloma, and nearly all in Myrothamnus, in which the meristem is lacking. These similarities are thus considered indicative of relationship among these families. SEM studies of epicuticular waxes and longitudinally-oriented cuticular relief on leaves of the three families reveal similarities. The presence of ultrastructual grooving on trichomes, the uniseriate nonglandular nature of the trichomes, and the nonlignified nature of walls in the hairs are features by which Geissolomataceae resemble Bruniaceae. Multiple epidermis is newly reported for Geissoloma. The possible significance of intracellular pectates in the epidermal cells and the multiple epidermis of Geissoloma is discussed.
10.2307/2997170|Black maple [Acer saccharum Marsh. subsp. nigrum (Michx. f.) Desm.] anthers overwinter in the microsporocyte stage. The microsporocytes are surrounded by a tapetal layer, two middle layers, an endothecium, and an epidermis. In the spring, tapetal cells become binucleate or multinucleate as microsporogenesis proceeds basipetally through the entire inflorescence and its individual branches. Development is nearly synchronous within all locules of individual anthers. As microsporogenesis progresses, middle layers become crushed and the glandular (secretory) tapetum degenerates. Tetrahedral tetrads are formed by simultaneous cytokinesis, followed by dissolution of callose and release of microspores. After microspore mitosis, pollen is shed at the two-celled stage. In functionally pistillate flowers, pollen maturity is delayed until after anthesis, yet filament elongation and anther dehiscence do not occur. Endothecial wall thickenings are present in the anthers of pistillate flowers and show no differences that appear to contribute to the lack of anther dehiscence. In both staminate and pistillate flowers, mature endothecial cells are radially elongate with fibrous thickenings forming a cage of more-or-less parallel bands along each cell's anticlinal walls. On the inner periclinal cell face, the bands anastomose into a central baseplate; on the outer periclinal face, bands are continuous, though often attenuated. This paper presents the first photographically documented observations of microsporogenesis and the first description of endothecial wall thickenings for the Aceraceae. Observations presented confirm and supplement previous scattered observations of anther and pollen development in Acer
10.2307/2482821|1. The stimulating potencies of Bengal gram steep liquor, corn steep liquor and rice steep liquor have been studied in the production of penicillin by P. chrysogenum Q 176 (Wis). and P. notatum NRRL 1249-B-21 using Moyer and Coghill's lactose medium with and without phenyl acetic acid. 2. It has been found that Bengal gram steep liquor is superior to corn and rice steep liquors.
10.2307/2995941|Synandra hispidula (Michx.) Britt., an herbaceous species of mesic deciduous forests, has been reported to be an annual, winter annual, biennial and perennial. Our observations on its ecological life cycle in Kentucky show that it is a strict biennial. Seeds germinate from February to April, and all surviving plants flower and produce seeds the second spring, after which the entire plant dies.
10.2307/2482395|1. Fiber lengths are greater in outer than in inner growth rings at the same level of the trunk. 2. Greater fiber lengths in outer rings were noted at the higher level sampled. 3. Length of fibers shows no relationship to lean of tree trunk in the eastern cottonwood.
10.2307/2996833|Phytolacca americana L. is a common native weed of the eastern United States, ranging from Quebec and Ontario south to northeastern Mexico. Previous authors have disagreed as to the status of a second taxon, P. rigida Small, which is distinguished from P. americana by erect, rather than drooping racemes and pedicels that are shorter than the berries. In addition, P. rigida is restricted to Florida and the Atlantic and Gulf coasts. Artificial cross-pollinations between plants of the two taxa yielded viable seeds, but interpretation of this result is equivocal because of the strongly autogamous nature of the plants. Flavonoid profiles of the two taxa were found to be indistinguishable, consisting of six glycosides of the flavonols quercetin and kaempferol. No taxonomically useful differences were detected in salinity tolerance or seed germination. The region between the Upper Coastal Plain and Quaternary deposits of the Lower Coastal Plain appears to form an ecological barrier between the two taxa. Analyses of 14 morphological characters in 36 populations from the Coastal Plain of the southeastern United States showed that P. rigida is distinct from P. americana in several characters. It is not, however, sufficiently distinct to deserve recognition as a separate species. Therefore, a new combination is proposed: Phytolacca americana var. rigida.
10.2307/2996257|Flowering frequency and vegetative reproduction in E. propullans, a narrow endemic of southeastern Minnesota, were compared with that of nearby populations of E. albidum, a widespread species of the eastern deciduous forest. The average proportion of flowering plants in colonies of E. propullans was 28.3% (range 7.8-50 9%), while in colonies of E. albidum it was 3.8% (range 1.1-9 9%). Flowering frequency is correlated with runner position, since all runners are produced on flowering plants in E. propullans, and most are on non-flowering plants in E. albidum. Populations of E. propullans produce about 80% as many bulbs each growing season as do those of E. albidum, and only about 20% as many runners. Vegetative spreading in E. propullans is accomplished by a combination of an angling growth of the new flowering stem through the soil before emergence, followed by the production of a stem offshoot runner which produces a new bulb. Bulb-to-bulb distances gained in this way exceed those of E. albidum, in which all runners arise from bulbs. However, E. albidum is more aggressive vegetatively due to its greater number of runners. Factors to express amount of vegetative reproduction and degree of aggressiveness are calculated. Apparent advantages and disadvantages of the two types of vegetative reproduction are discussed, with possible implications regarding the origin of the type found in E. propullans.
10.2307/2996515|The names of two well-known species of Aster must give way to earlier, validly published names. Aster oolentangiensis Riddell (April, 1835) has priority over A. azureus Lindley in Hooker (November, 1835), and A. retroflexus Lindley in DeCandolle (1836) takes the place of A. curtisii Torrey & Gray (1841).
10.2307/2484363|A zoospore of Phytophthora palmivora with 3 tinsel flagella and 3 whiplash flagella has been observed in the electron microscope. Lateral hairs characteristic of each type of flagella were also observed. It is assumed that the multiflagellated zoospore described is trinucleate.
10.2307/2484593|Root fragments of Mirabilis multiflora occur in abundance in a rock shelter in southern New Mexico occupied by a hunter-gatherer people who practiced limited agriculture from about 1700 BC to 100 AD. The raphide-filled root fragments were identified by comparison with large-rooted perennials including the following Nyctaginaceae with macroscopically similar tissue: Abronia elliptica, A. fragrans, Mirabilis multiflora, M. linearis, and M longiflora. Only M. multiflora possessed the properly colored and textured root surface to match the prehistoric material. Modern Pueblo Indians employ the ground root for food, to suppress appetite, and to counteract swelling; modern medical research demonstrates anti-tumor activity in the root extract.
10.2307/2482121|1. Five enzymes from pea homogenates were studied in respect to their distribution between the cotyledons and the root-shoot axis and to their development during germination up to 6 day-old seedlings. 2. When the activity is expressed in terms of wet weight, ascorbic oxidase occurred predominantly in the root-shoot axis, while amylase was equally distributed between the two regions, and cytochrome oxidase, succinoxidase, and phosphorylase were primarily found in the cotyledons. When compared in terms of dry weight or protein, ascorbic oxidase, cytochrome oxidase, and amylase activities were now more concentrated in the root-shoot axis, and phosphorylase and succinoxidase were more concentrated in the cotyledons. 3. All of the above enzymes except ascorbic oxidase were found in ungerminated seeds, and all increased in activity upon germination.
10.2307/2483007|Two sphagnous wet lands were selected for a comparative floristic study, Uttertown Bog located in northern New Jersey, and Bennett Bog Sanctuary located in southern New Jersey. Both of these areas were undrained depressions with acid soil and sphagnum moss. Uttertown Bog, located in a glaciated area in the Ridge and Valley Province, had a floating mat of vegetation, nearly constant water level, continuous sphagnum distribution, and a deep peat deposit. Bennett "Bog," located on the sands of the Coastal Plain in an unglaciated region, lacked a floating mat of vegetation, displayed a seasonal variation in the water level, possessed a scattered sphagnum distribution and a shallow peat deposit. One hundred and forty nine species of vascular plants were identified from Bennett "Bog" and forty three species from Uttertown Bog. Only nine species were found growing in both of the "bogs." Thirty nine and one half percent of the Uttertown sphagnous wet land species were woody and 60.5% were herbs. The woody plants were growing from the waters edge to the forest border. Nineteen and one half percent of the Bennett sphagnous wet land species were woody and 80.5% were herbs. In contrast to Uttertown the woody species were confined to outer edges or to restricted areas within the "bog." Evidence is presented to show that 30 of the 149 Bennett species had southern geographical affinity, and Uttertown Bog had twelve of 43 species with northern geographical affinity, two reaching their southern limit in New Jersey. In addition a portion of the Bennett flora was also shown to have an affinity with the flora of the New Jersey Pine Barrens. The data presented in this paper indicate that there are species with a southern floral affinity extending their northern limits in sphagnous wet lands in the southern part of New Jersey and species with a northern floral affinity extending their southern limits in a sphagnous wet land located in northern New Jersey. Authors have stated that northern plants south of their continuous range and near the southern limit of their distribution may be restricted to northern bogs. Our data substantiated this. In addition, the evidence presented confirms the views of Long and Stone that southern species north of their continuous range and near the northern limit of their distribution can be restricted to sphagnous wet lands.
10.2307/2482106|1. Aeginetia indica is a small purplish parasite of the family Orobanchaceae, occurring on the roots of grasses and many other plants. There is an erect, slender scape bearing a single flower which hangs downwards. 2. There are four stamens which are epipetalous and didynamous. The anthers are bilocular, but at maturity the two loculi become confluent. The archesporium is hypodermal and occurs in the form of two crescent-shaped masses. 3. The anther tapetum is glandular and its cells become bi- or even tri-nucleate. The endothecium, and sometimes even the epidermis and outer middle layer show spiral thickenings. 4. Quadripartition of the microspore mother cell takes place by furrowing. Tetrahedral, isobilateral, and decussate types of tetrads occur. 5. The pollen grain is two-celled. The exine is smooth and shows three furrows. 6. The ovules are extremely small, tenuinucellate, anatropous and unitegmic. The nucellar epidermis degenerates and an inconspicuous integumentary tapetum is formed from the innermost layer of the integument. 7. The hypodermal archesporial cell functions directly as the megaspore mother cell without cutting off a parietal cell. The megaspores show a linear or T-shaped arrangement. 8. The embryo sac is of the Polygonum type. The synergids disappear soon after fertilization. 9. The endosperm is cellular. The first wall is transverse resulting in a primary micropylar and a primary chalazal chamber. The latter forms a weak and uninucleate haustorium which is eventually crushed by the enlarged integumentary cells. The micropylar chamber divides longitudinally and then transversely, so as to cut off a two-celled micropylar haustorium. This is very aggressive and sends intercellular hypha-like branches into the integument. The middle tier by further divisions gives rise to a narrow isthmus region and the endosperm proper. The endosperm cells store starch and oil. 10. There is a four-celled proembryo. The three terminal cells give rise to a globose embryo, which is not differentiated into the radicle, plumule and the cotyledons. The suspensor cell disintegrates and is unrecognisable in later stages. 11. The seeds are produced in abundance, but many of them are empty and devoid of either embryo or endosperm. They are yellowish, extremely small and rather powdery in appearance. The cells of the testa are reticulately thickened. The pericarp flakes off to liberate the seeds.
10.2307/2560355|Size association, population structure, density-diameter curve, and life history studies were used to evaluate possible successional trends in a Thuja occidentalis dominated association. It is predicted, in contrast to previous hypotheses, that T. occidentalis has a stable population structure and will continue to dominate, that Fraxinus nigra and Acer rubrum will increase in importance but remain subdominants, and that Liriodendron tulipifera will remain a minor component with temporary dominance in areas of canopy openings.
10.2307/2484263|Zizania texana is restricted to 2.4 km of the upper San Marcos River in southcentral Texas. Physical and chemical characteristics of the San Marcos River are unusual, being characterized by alkaline or neutral pH and water temperature varying only ca 5 C annually. Taxonomic comparison of Z. texana with Z. aquatica and Z. palustris showed several important morphological differences; these were maintained in cultivation, although Z. texana lost its streaming, submersed habit. Zizania texana is geographically isolated from all other Zizania taxa by at least 640 km. Viable seed obtained in cultivation produced 500 new clones. Human disturbances have affected Z. texana adversely. Survival depends on continued water purity and abundant flow from Spring Lake, source of the river. We are attempting to preserve the habitat and to transplant cultivated clones to other localities in central Texas.
10.2307/2482376|"Cedar glades" cover about 5 per cent of the Central Basin of Middle Tennessee at an average elevation of 600 feet. They occupy the flat exposures of Lebanon limestone in an otherwise fertile region. Soil is thin and rocky and moisture conditions are extreme. The soil is saturated much of the time from December to May, the period of greatest precipitation, and becomes increasingly drier through the summer and fall. Open glades and woods dominated by red cedar (Juniperus virginiana) are the most typical communities of the region. Both open glades and glade woods are heterogeneous communities, made up of a few "constants" and a large number of sporadic species, most of which are herbs. There is a close relationship between physiography and vegetation as evidenced by the restriction of glade vegetation to Lebanon limestone in the Central Basin and by the presence of similar glades on Ordovician limestone in Virginia and Missouri. This is probably a matter of available moisture controlled in part by stratigraphy. Ability to survive the spring saturation and fall drought is a factor in determining restriction of species to glade habitats. The plants which are able to survive these conditions meet less competition from mesic species which are unable to invade glade areas. Among species characteristic of glades are endemics, disjuncts and eastern species of western genera.
10.2307/2996748|We investigated the rates and mechanisms of canopy gap closure and changes in thicket age, stem density, crown size, and canopy closure with height in thickets of the clonal shrub, Cornus racemosa Linnaeus. We conducted the study in a well drained upland old field with nutrient-poor soil and a poorly drained lowland old field with more nutrient-rich soil in New York's Hudson Valley. As thickets grow taller, canopy closure tends to decrease because lateral growth of canopy stem crowns does not completely offset decreases in canopy stem density. When stems die, they generally die standing and singly, forming gaps in the canopy. Single stem gaps formed by standing-dead stems were closed predominantly by lateral growth of the branches in the crowns of stems surrounding the gaps. Mean closure rates of experimentally created gaps were greater on average in the wetter and more nutrient-rich lowland site (15.0 cm/yr) than in the upland site (5.0 cm/yr). Gaps closed by 85%/yr at the lowland site and 21%/yr at the upland site. The fates of understory stems differed between sites, more understory stems reached the canopy in upland thickets. Stem lean contributed to both the opening and closing of individual gaps at both sites. On average, lean opened gaps in upland thickets and had no effect on lowland gap closure rates. Stem lean after gap creation increased with canopy stem density. Larger gaps should take longer to close, allowing more opportunity for understory stems to contribute to gap closure.
10.2307/2996639|The spatial pattern of live patches of Bashania fangiana after most stands flowered in 1983 in Wolong Natural Reserve, China were analyzed. Live patches were intensely clumped at small spatial scales and remained clumped up to scales of 14.4 km
10.2307/2483597|Scleropodium julaceum sp. nov. is described and illustrated. Hypnum apocladum Mitt. is referred to the synonymy of Scleropodium caespitans var. sublaeve Ren. & Card., and the new combination Scleropodium touretii var. colpophyllum (Sull.) Lawt. is made. A key for the identification of the North American species of Scleropodium is included.
10.2307/2483328|The growth of plants in solution or sand culture is often accompanied by an increase in solution acidity and this is especially marked when ammonium is the form of nitrogen supplied by the nutrient solution. In studies that compare the effect of ammonium and nitrate on plant processes, a change in solution pH is an undesired variable. An apparatus is described in which nutrient solution passes over roots in a continuous flow, thus providing a constant pH in the presence of ammonium or nitrate salts. Adequate root aeration is maintained without the necessity of bubbling air through the culture solution. Under conditions of constant pH (6.3) wheat roots grew equally well with ammonium or nitrate but sunflower roots grew better with nitrate.
10.2307/2484508|Protein-profiles and zymograms provide additional criteria to characterize fungal taxa. The successful application of electrophoretic techniques to taxonomic problems in fungi, however, requires relatively large collections for each taxon, an evaluation of different cultural and extraction procedures, a survey of available enzyme systems, and an appreciation of the limitations of different electrophoretic methods. These factors have been considered in the study of species of Aspergillus and Ustilago and their significance is discussed. The relatively low incidence of enzyme polymorphism and the status of cryptic or sibling species have genetic and taxonomic significance.
10.2307/2483772|Net primary production of forest herbs (shoots only) was studied in a mixed hardwood forest in the spring of 1967 and 1968. Peak standing crop was reached prior to canopy closure as was leaf area index. Chlorophyll content reached a peak one month after canopy closure and was higher per unit fresh weight of leaf material than before closure This indicates that summer herbs have a higher chlorophyll content than spring herbs. Leaf area index was inversely proportional to dry matter production, being higher in the communities with lower species diversity. Dry matter production (68gm
10.2307/2484925|In order to determine possible mechanisms of habitat differentiation, germination of stratified seeds of six colonizing species which occur together in first-year oldfields, was tested on a soil moisture gradient. Seeds of Abutilon theophrasti, Amaranthus retroflexus, Ambrosia artemisiifolia, Chenopodium album, Polygonum pensylvanicum, and Setaria faberii were sown on a controlled soil moisture gradient ranging from flooded conditions down to 4.7% moisture content per soil dry weight. Much of the gradient was unsuitable for germination of any species. The species showed no differentiation in response along the gradient. Proportional similarity was high. -niche breadths were also high, but not as high as those of established plants of these species, which exploit a wider range of the gradient. Although there is no differential response of germination to soil moisture, other aspects of germination behavior may contribute to coexistence.
10.2307/2484884|The response of vegetation on Sucia Island to a number of sharp environmental gradients produces an ecocline with five major plant communities. Topography, air temperature, wind, vapor pressure deficit, and soil moisture interact to affect this vegetation pattern. South-facing slopes are hot, dry, and windy, whereas north-facing slopes and valleys are cool and moist, with low wind speeds. A Pseudotsuga menziesii/Gaultheria shallon community is in the center of the ecocline on gently rolling, interior sites, Pseudotsuga menziesii-Arbutus menziesii/Vicia americana occupies protected south-facing slopes, and Festuca idahoensis grasslands are located on exposed south-facing points of the island. Thuja plicata-Pseudotsuga menziesii/Gaultheria shallon occupies north-facing slopes, and Thuja plicata-Abies grandis/Polystichum munitum occurs in central valleys. Water potentials in saplings of P. menziesii and T. plicata correspond to the obvious moisture gradient over the island, with lowest values on the more exposed, drier sites.
10.2307/2482954|1. The importance of studying structurally preserved portions of axes of compression specimens is stressed and several examples of previous work of this nature are cited. 2. Two common types of fossil preservation in pyrite are discussed. 3. A technique which facilitates the grinding and polishing of surfaces of pyritized plant fossils is described and its usefulness to the paleobotanist is emphasized.
10.2307/2484799|Mycoirhizal fungi are members of specific taxonomic groups. Most ectomycorrhizal species are of numerous geneia of Basidiomycetes, although some are clearly Ascomycetes. Endomycorrhizal fungi are usually chlamydosporic Phycomycetes in the Endogonaceae. However, orchid and ericoid fungi are Basidiomycetes or Ascomycetes. The ectendomycorihizal fungi are still unidentifiable. In nature, mycorrhizal fungi depend on carbohydrates supplied primarily by their hosts. Soluble carbohydrates in roots is considered a major factor in formation of ectomycorrhizae and sporophore development. Amino and other organic acids, the M-factor, and possibly other root secretions are metabolized by the fungi. Certain ectendomycorrhizal fungi are readily cultured; their nutritional requirements are probably similar to ectomycorrhizal fungi. Endomycorrhizal fungi are apparently obligate parasites. However, in balanced systems of reciprocal exchanges of metabolites they are not considered to be pathogenic toward their hosts.
10.2307/2482287|1. The total amount and rate of growth, and survival of root apices from three lines of tomato were compared in treatments which involved subculturing the main apex at the end of one, two, three, four, and seven days. 2. Although there was considerable variation among the three lines, a greater total amount of growth was recorded for apices of all lines when subcultured at the end of one day. 3. In general, the rate of growth at the beginning of the treatment was higher for those roots excised after longer passages. During the later period of treatment, the growth rate of roots excised after longer passages declined rapidly and the roots failed to survive beyond at most a period of 21 days (or less). The rate of growth of roots excised after passages longer than one day, in medium which was changed daily, declined less than the rate of those in medium changed only at the time of transfer. The survival was not increased by changing the medium daily. 4. All of the roots of one line given a one-day passage treatment survived for 60 days without diminution in growth rate and thus it is presumed that they could have been subcultured indefinitely. In another line, subcultures were made for 36 days without diminution in growth rate, but all of the apices died between the 33rd and 36th day. In the other line survival was increased very little, if any, by the use of the one-day passage treatment. 5. Whatever are the factors controlling the growth potential of the root apex, it is clear that there are internal influences from the basipetal or mature regions of the root. These influences affect cell division and enlargement. They appear to be related to the presence or absence of lateral roots.
10.2307/2482152|1. All rock specimens from Val David were found to be a gabbro consisting almost entirely of anorthite, essentially CaAl
10.2307/2481793|1. Morphological differences exist in the normal chromosome complement of T. erectum L. growing in Tennessee and T. erectum L. growing in Canada. Taxonomically the plants are identical insofar as the conventionally employed morphological characters are concerned. 2. In obtaining valid comparative data as to chromosome morphology identical techniques must be employed The Feulgen and the aceto-carmine techniques give results which differ by approximately 30% in the Trillium species studied. This is shown in both the study of Y. erectum L. and T. luteum (Muhl) Harbison. There is no difference with these techniques, however, as to the position of the primary constriction; the ratio between the long arm and short arm remains the same. 3. The pattern of differential segments produced by cold treatment cannot be employed as a valid or even useful taxonomic indicator for distinguishing species, for too many differences exist in the regularly recurring pattern in the Canadian T. erectum L. and that in plants of the same species growing in Tennessee. 4. The primary constriction also behaves like a region of differential reactivity upon exposure to cold. 5 The differential segments themselves undergo less contraction than the non-affected portions of the chromosomes upon exposure to cold. 6. The morphology of the normal chromosomes set of T. erectum L differs slightly from that of T luteum (Muhl.) Harbison; however, the total length of the two complements is the same
10.2307/2484955|Twenty-two species of Xanthoparmelias are described from Arizona. Parmelia nigropsoromifera is described as new. Chemical, distributional and morphological data are provided in addition to a key for the southwestern species.
10.2307/2484926|Poa chaixii Vill. is reported from Hamilton Co., and Saratoga Co., N.Y., near old estates, and associated with other European adventives.
10.2307/2484222|The streamside forest vegetation in the Sangamon River basin of east-central Illinois was studied by direct gradient analysis. A gradient of river flood frequencies was used to combine data from three vegetational gradients and to study gradient trends in species richness, diversity, evenness, dominance, and the Gaussian curve model of species distribution. Species richness, diversity and evenness increased from minima at the streambank to maxima in mid-coenocline areas and then regressed slightly in the unflooded portion of the flood-frequency gradient. Dominance was strongest at the extremes of the gradient. Tolerance to flood and moisture conditions are suggested as the primary sorting factors controlling the distribution of species in the streamside forest. Historical disturbances, however, are also important and represent an alternative hypothesis. The Gaussian curve model was determined to statistically fit 20 of the 27 species for which there were sufficient data for analysis. Species distribution modes were distributed on the gradient apparently at random. Minor species were distributed independent of the dominants.
10.2307/2996261|Management of Residual Open Spaces (ROS) in highly urbanized areas is currently receiving increased interest in the city of Hoboken and other municipalities along the Palisades in northeastern New Jersey. The preservation and proper utilization of these ROS requires a comprehensive management plan based on both a knowledge of community compositions and relationships of the pre-urbanized (natural) communities and the effects of urbanization on such communities. Working toward this goal, we have analyzed the forest compositions and relationships of the Greenbrook Sanctuary in 1949 and 1980 and 31-year changes which have occurred. The 1949 forest communities were analyzed utilizing unpublished historical documents and data generated during the late 1940's and early 1950's whereas the 1980 forest communities were analyzed using data generated during July-August 1980.
10.2307/2484833|Horton's concept of the bifurcation ratio of stream channel networks was applied to the branching systems of sixteen north temperate woody plant species. An analysis of the bifurcation ratio by life form and shade tolerance suggests that leaf arrangement, leaf and branch evergreenness or deciduousness, and needle size are the most important determinants of the ratio. Optimal branching strategies are examined with respect to Horn's formulation of the adaptive geometry of trees. Based on a statistical analysis of shade and open grown white ash (Fraxinus americana) saplings, it is concluded that the bifurcation ratio approaches a species specific constant and thus is relatively independent of external influences.
10.2307/2482426|1. Evidence from the one example studied indicates that the low terraces that lie just above the flood level of the Raritan River can support a forest dominated by sugar maple, beech, and basswood. Their two principal but minor associates will be red oak and bitternut hickory.2. The flood plains will support forests that are much more varied in composition.3. The part of the flood plain farthest from the river, the inner flood plain, is less well drained than the part adjacent to the river. The inner flood plain forest which was investigated in this study occupies a site wheresurface erosion at flood times scours the ground resulting in an uneven surface. Sugar maple, red maple, ash and beech as a group are becoming dominant in place of the earlier established elm, box-elder, red oak, basswood, pin oak, river birch and tulip tree. This succession cannot be presumed for the inner flood plain of the river as a whole because more often deposition rather than surface erosion occurs during flooding and the conditions then are exceedingly different. No extensive relatively undisturbed stands occur on the latter type of site.4. The outer flood plain sites or broad more or less level areas of deposition next to the river have a deep, well-drained soil and support a deciduous forest of mixed composition in which no convincing trend toward the dominance of a few species is evident.
10.2307/2483931|A resurvey of the vegetation on 104 permanent sample units was conducted during the summer of 1962 in Lebanon State Forest, New Jersey. Replicate sampling was conducted to determine if the sample method used was reproducible. Comparisons of replicate sample data indicate close agreement among values derived by two independent observers for tree and shrub cover, basal area and stem numbers. Disagreement was found when comparing seedling data. Comparisons of results of the 1954 and 1962 surveys indicate a number of changes have taken place in the vegetation of the sample sites. No detectable change occurred in the canopy cover, and with one exception none in canopy space, that was statistically significant. A general increase in basal area was found, with greatest increases being found in early successional communitits and insignifiant increase or decrease noted in older Oak-Pine communities. Changes of stem size classes indicate a shift toward the larger size classes and an overall decrease in total stems. Comparisons of shrub cover values indicate a marked reduction of total shrub cover, apparently due to decreased shrub density. Indications are that a change in shrub population structure has occurred resulting in reduced relative importance of Vaccinium vacillans and increased relative importance of other major shrub species. Drought is offered as a possible explanation for the observed decrease in shrub cover and total stem number of tree species.
10.2307/2484333|Anthesis of Frasera caroliniensis Walt. consists of distinct, but slightly overlapping, staminate and pistillate phases, and this restricts the chances of a stigma receiving pollen from anthers of the same flower. However, the pattern of floral opening on each inflorescence branch and the large number of flowers on the flowering stalk insure that flowers in staminate and pistillate phases are in close proximity to each other at the same time on the same plant. Of the flowers left unbagged and thus exposed to natural pollen vectors 60.2% set fruits, and of the flowers on plants cross-pollinated solely by hand 46.7% set fruit. Transfer of pollen between flowers on the same inflorescence branch yielded 30.5% fruit set, and bagged, unmanipulated flowers had 17.9% fruit set, indicating some degree of autogamy and/or geitonogamy. The most effective pollinators were species of the hymenopteran Family Apidae: Bombus bimaculatus, B. griseocollis, B. vagans and Apis mellifera. Larvae of three orders of insects destroyed about 25% of the total seed crop.
10.2307/2996362|Allometric relationships between stem diameterand height were studied for dicotyledonous trees and arborescent palms in a tropical wet forest of Costa Rica. In a mixed population of dicotyledonous trees, stem diameter varies with the 3/2 power of height. The climax forest tree Pentaclethra macroloba (Willd.) Kuntze. appears to have a greater margin of safety against mechanical failure than the faster growing tree Pourouma aspera Trecul. This is consistent with Pourouma's shorter life span and narrower crown. As the arborescent palms Welfia georgii Wendl. ex Burret and Socratea durissima (Derst.) Wendl. grow in height, the margin of safety against mechanical failure decreases and/or the stem tissue stiffness and strength increases. Welfia shows little capacity to increase stem diameter during height growth. Socratea shows major stem diameter increase during height growth, but not enough to maintain elastic or geometric similarity. The tallest individuals of Socratea exceed McMahon's (1973) theoretical buckling limit for dicotyledonous trees. This is consistent with the observation that tall palms have stronger, stiffer stem tissue and narrower crowns than dicotyledonous trees. Differences in allometry of height and stem diameter indicate differences in stem tissue mechanical properties, the margin of safety against mechanical failure, and/or crown weight; however, we generally can not distinguish the relative importance of these three possibilities on the basis of studies of height and stem diameters alone.
10.2307/2483231|An unusual introduction of Dioscorea resembling both D. composita and D. floribunda was compared to these species with respect to morphology, chromosome behavior, crossability, and sapogenin content. The evidence suggests that the introduction is a valid hybrid of otherwise well-defined species. The facts that such hybrids have not been recognized previously and that this hybrid was found in a disturbed habitat suggest that naturally occurring hybrids are not suited to the habitat of either species and therefore do not ordinarily survive to maturity.
10.2307/2483352|Seedlings of 5 bromeliad species representing two ecological types were grown in aseptic culture using fifteen amino acids, urea, ammonium and nitrate salts alone or in certain combinations as nitrogen sources. Dry weight accumulation and total nitrogen content subsequent to culture indicate seedlings of epiphytic tank species (Aechmea bracteata [SW.] Griseb., A. recurvata [KL] L. B. Smith and Vriesea jonghii [Libon ex. K. Koch] E. Morr.) possess an ability to fully or partially replace nitrate and ammonium with more organic nitrogen sources than terrestrial species (Pitcairnia andreana Linden and Puya mirabilis [Mez] L. B. Smith) which are tank-less and incapable of impounding water. Alanine, glutamic acid and leucine inhibit growth in all five species and glutamine and urea promote an increase in dry weight over controls lacking nitrogen in all species tested The effects of other amino acids tested varied depending on the species assayed. Enhanced ability to metabolize organic nitrogen in tank bromeliads may represent an adaptation to epiphytic life.
10.2307/2996452|Vegetative characteristics of twelve Southern Appalachian riparian forests were sampled as part of alarger study which examined functional attributes of riparian zones. Riparian forests were representative of me mixed mesophytic forest, eastern hemlock forest, and transitions between these types. Early- and mid-successional stages were generally dominated by an overstory of pioneering shade-intolerant species and had an even-aged structure. The diameter distribution of these relatively young stands of mixed species was typically inverse J-shaped. Late-successional and old-growth stages were dominated by shade-tolerant or moderately tolerant overstory species and were uneven-aged. Diameter distribution in these older stands approximated a rotated sigmoid curve. Rhododendron (Rhododendron maximum L.) was the dominant understory species and controlled understory and midstory composition. Characterization of riparian forests in different stages of succession will help understanding of vegetative processes and forms the basis of subsequent ecological studies of riparian functional dynamics.
10.2307/2996087|Lists of vascular plants were compiled for 22 limestone glades innorthern Alabama, including 16 in the Moulton Valley. A total of 233 native and 36 normative taxa were identified in the limestone glades. Families with the highest number of species were Asteraceae (34), Poaceae (29), and Fabaceae (20); genera with the highest number of species were Aster (5) and Euphorbia (5). Sixty-six of the taxa (63 native, 3 nonnative) occurred in 9 or more limestone glades (presence class 3, 4, or 5). Species present in 18 or more limestone glades (presence class 5) were Agave virginica, Arenaria patula, Diodia teres, Erigeron strigosus, Hypericum sphaerocarpum, Isanthus bractiatus, Juniperus virginiana, Opuntia humifusa, Ruellia humilis, and Sporobolus vaginiflorus. Woody plants with the highest presence values were Juniperus virginiana, Rhus aromatica, and Ulmus alata. Each of the 16 limestone glade endemics known to be extant in northern Alabama occurred in one or more of the 22 glades. Endemics with the highest presence values were Dalea gattingeri (68.2%), Leavenworthia alabamica (59.1%), and Oxalis priceae ssp. priceae (54.5%). Greater than 90% of the 36 nonnative taxa were in presence classes 1 and 2, and none was in presence classes 4 or 5. Seventy-six and six-tenths percent of the 269 taxa are hemicryptophytes or therophytes, and 89.2% of them have the C
10.2307/2482976|The effect of three plant growth substances, IAA, NAA, and TIBA at 500, 250 and 100ppm upon the growth and reproduction of an early variety of rice has been studied. The treatments consisted of seed soaking only in one series and in the other a combined treatment of seed soaking plus weekly foliar spray. The study has led to the following salient conclusions. 1. IAA had no effect on flowering. It however produced a depressing effect on vegetative characters in the initial stages followed by a subsequent recovery and brought about a higher grain yield consequent upon an increase in number and length of panicles and number of grains formed per panicle. 2. NAA brought about a conspicuous delay in ear emergence and an inhibition of vegetative characters in the early stages but was without any effect on grain yield though the number of spikelets and grains were favourably influenced by 500ppm. 3. TIBA produced no significant effect on flowering but had a marked promoting effect on vegetative characters in all their aspects. It had no effect on grain yield or components of yield excepting bringing about a marked decrease in the grain plumpness at the two concentrations of 500 and 250ppm. Our thanks are due to the Utkal University, for the award of the Maharajkumari Sudhansumukhi Gajapati Fellowship to one of us (G.S.), to Professor B. Samantarai, for providing facilities for carrying on this investigation, to Sri M. P Jha for help in statistical analysis and to Prof. K. V. Thimann for helpful criticism.
10.2307/2484224|Three zones of upland, broadleaved forest are mapped for Florida: the Tropical Forest (TRF) at the tip of the Florida peninsula, the Temperate Broadleaved Evergreen Forest (TBEF) in central Florida, and the Southern Mixed Hardwood Forest (SMHF) in northwestern Florida. The TRF is dominated by tropical arboreal taxa, the TBEF by evergreen temperate taxa (mainly Quercus virginiana and Sabal palmetto), and the SMHF by deciduous temperate taxa. Because of the paucity of stands of temperate broadleaved evergreen trees and their small area, few studies have been published. This paper presents new, quantitative data on stands of broadleaved evergreen forests in central Florida. Three subdivisions of the TBEF are recognized on the basis of floristic and vegetational characteristics. A broad transition occurs between the TBEF and the SMHF and between the TBEF and the TRF. There are climatic distinctions among the three forest zones in Florida: the TRF exists under Hot to Very Warm, Subtemperate, and Subhumid C to Humid B conditions; the TBEF under Very Warm to Warm, Subtemperate to Temperate, and Subhumid B to Humid C conditions; and the SMHF under Warm, Temperate, and Humid B conditions. Measures of cold temperatures, especially the average minimum temperature of the coldest month (CM
10.2307/2482324|In a survey of the soil fungi of Maryland two new polycentric chytrids were collected and isolated on cellulosic substrata. The first of these species is characterized primarily by an unusually large coarse rhizomycelium which lacks pseudo-septa or trabeculae, and by operculate sporangia. Accordingly, it belongs in the genus Nowakowskiella and is described as a new species, N. crassa. The second species belongs in Cladochytrium and is distinguished by a very delicate rhizomycelium, bi- to multiseptate spindle organs, inoperculate sporangia and large zoospores which contain a brilliant, goldenorange or red refractive body. It is very similar to C. tenue except for its pigmentation and larger zoospores, and because of these characteristic differences it is diagnosed as a new species and named C. aureum. In addition to these species several other saprophytic polycentric chytrids were isolated from soil and water in various parts of Maryland. These include: Cladochytrium tenue, C. replicatum, C. hyalinum, Nowakowskiella elegans, N. profusa, N. macrospora, N. hemisphaerospora, N. granulata, Septochytrium variabile, Catenomyces persicinus, Myceliochytrium fulgens, and Polychytrium aggregatum. Resting spores were discovered for the first time in Polychytrium.
10.2307/2484205|The synonymy of this taxon, its geographical range, habitats, and dates of introduction into the U.S. are reviewed. In addition, morphological studies were made of New Jersey populations. It is concluded that subspecific categories should not be designated.
10.2307/2482937|Cyperacites ? filiferus (Cockerell) comb. nov. Cyperus filiferus (Cockerell) Brown, 1959. Jour. Paleontol., v. 33, no. 1, p. 120-124, pl. 28, fig. 3. Eopuntia douglassii Chaney, 1944. Am. Jour. Bot., v. 31, no. 8, p. 507-528, pls. 1-5.
10.2307/2483900|The survival in culture of excised embryos of barley 200-400  in length was markedly improved by increases in the concentrations of potassium salts in a synthetic medium. Filter-sterilization of certain organic components, including glutamine, together with the addition of ammonium malate, produced increased growth in size of cultured embryos. Reduction of sucrose concentration, to approximately 0.2M, eliminated initial "osmotic shock" in embryos but produced "precocious germination" in cultures kept in darkness. Light of 50-100 FC tended to prevent "precocious germination" on media containing lower sucrose levels.
10.2307/2484303|A study of the phenology, breeding system, and insect pollinators of Diervilla lonicera demonstrated the flowers to be protogynous, self-incompatible, non-apomictic, and adapted for pollination by bumble bees and hawkmoths. The style and filaments increased in length during authesis. The stigmas were very receptive for up to 48 hr after the start of anthesis. A color change in the corolla was linked with a decrease in flower visitation by bumble bees (Bombus vagans and B. terricola). Adults and larvae of the hawkmoth, Hemaris diffinis are associated with the plant in four widely separated localities. The flowers open late in the day, but no nocturnal pollinators were observed. Nocturnal hawkmoth pollination may occur in the southern part of the plant's range.
10.2307/2996403|Tree species composition from 53 sites in Lassen Volcanic National Park and 95 sites in Yosemite National Park, representative of the entire elevational range of forested environments in each park, were used to address two related research questions. 1.) DO patterns of overstory composition respond to similar underlying environmental gradients in each region? 2.) Are comparable forest cover types evident from each region? Canonical correspondence analysis of these data indicated that elevation was the principal environmental gradient in both regions. Substrate variables were important secondary gradients, although different variables were significant in each locale (phosphorus and soil acidity in Lassen; sand content and magnesium in Yosemite). Topographic effects were weakly expressed in the overstory compositional pattern of each region. The importance of different substrate gradients in each region is probably a reflection of the dramatically contrasting geologic terrain (volcanic in Lassen vs. granitic in Yosemite). Two-way indicator species analysis and detrended correspondence analysis were used to classify and arrange forest cover types from a composite data set comprising all 148 sites. Nine of the ten resulting groups exhibited distinct geographic affinities for one locale over the other, suggesting that compositional sorting was not parallel between regions. The composite detrended correspondence analysis suggested that primarily elevation and, secondarily, topography were important in structuring the ecological distribution of forest cover types. Substrate effects were muted in the combined data set
10.2307/2996409|In a population of Panax quinquefolium in southeastern New York, reproductive individuals produce bisexual flowers with either a two-styled ovary containing two ovules or a one-styled ovary containing a single ovule The number of flowers produced, the ratio of two- to one-styled flowers, and the percentage of ovules maturing into seeds all increase with plant size Flowers are capable of autogamy Xenogamy is effected by syrphid flies and halictid bees Fecundity appears to be regulated by the availability of resources
10.2307/2483403|Glass and wood slides suspended near the surface and bottom in three stations in Great South Bay were analyzed for algal germlings at 14-day intervals during the summer of 1962 and the data are plotted in graphs. Three periodicity patterns were found including those setting throughout the summer (Champia parvula), those terminating set during midsummer (Ceramium diaphanum, Chaetomorpha melagonium, Enteromorpha spp., Polysiphonia denudata, and Ulva lactuca), and those beginning set during midsummer (Gracilaria foliifera, Polysiphonia subtilissima, and also Ceramium rubrum and Eetoearpus silieulosus).
10.2307/2483872|Cytological evidence from Haplopappus gracilis (n = 2) and the complex heterozygote, Rhoeo discolor (n = 6), supports previous hypotheses and considerably older cytological evidence that before premeiotic interphase the homologous chromosomes pair in the contracted condition in plants, animals, and fungi. It is assumed that homologues once-paired remain paired from premeiotic division to meiotic prophase. Such premeiotic pairing is considered to be different from meiotic synapsis. In some plants, premeiotic pairing begins during early bud formation; gradually and cumulatively the paired condition increases to a high percentage by the last premeiotic division in somatic tissues and the sporogenous cells: Such divisions have characteristics of both mitosis and meiosis.
10.2307/2483493|Eight species tested showed a high degree of self-sterility, including P. fauriei which was reported earlier to be self-fertile. Many interspecific crosses were fertile, but of the 31 crosses which were not, more than half involved either P. fauriei or P. heterophylla. Fruits of interspecific hybrids showed that persistent calyx was dominant over deciduous, russet skin was dominant over smooth, and stoneless flesh was dominant over stony. Carpel number was intermediate between the two parent species.
10.2307/2484767|Twenty-four of the 31 currently recognized taxa of Dahlia were surveyed for flavonoids. Nearly all of the 64 compounds isolated were identified. All of the taxa examined possess characteristic flavonoid profiles. At the subgeneric level two sections, Dahlia and Pseudodendron, are characterized by the production of flavonols. The third section, Entemophyllon, lacks flavonols but instead produces a unique series of 6-methoxy flavones. This chemical dichotomy suggests that two major lines of evolution exist within Dahlia, a dichotomy also supported by morphological and cytotaxonomic data. This work on the wild taxa is compared with known chemical information for cultivated Dahlia.
10.2307/2482658|1. The meiotic behaviour of the F~
10.2307/2996945|The effects of shading and fertilization on the ecophysiology of the spring ephemeral Claytonia virginica L. (Portulacaceae) were examined in the field. A two-way factorial design with main factors of light treatment (ambient control irradiance vs. 90% attenuation) and nutrient treatment (unfertilized control vs. 192 kg ha
10.2307/2996691|During a 4-year study in northwestern Costa Rica, the density, phenology, and growth rate of 29 species of dry forest trees important in the diets of primates were documented in three habitat types: pristine semi-evergreen forest, old successional semi-deciduous forest, and young successional semi-deciduous forest. The overall density of adult trees for the species sampled was the lowest in the young successional forest (80 trees/ha) followed by the pristine semi-evergreen forest (140.3 trees/ha) and the older successional forest (154.8 trees/ha). However, the pristine semi-evergreen forest had a fairly constant level of food abundance, while both types of successional forest had more seasonally variable production. The average growth rate of trees in the semi-evergreen forest was slower than those documented in either of the successional forests.
10.2307/2484803|The common rhizomatous corymbose Spiraea L. (Rosaceae) of Alaska, northwest Canada and northeastern Siberia is called Spiraea betulifolia var. aemiliana (Schneid.) Koidz. in Japanese literature and S. beauverdiana Schneid. in Russian and American literature. Both names are inapplicable, being synonymous epithets for a variety of S. betulifolia Pall. of northern Japan. The correct name of this species is Spiraea steveni (Schneid.) Rydb.
10.2307/2996879|Understory structure and composition for the maritime oak and oak-pine forests on Cumberland Island National Seashore varies from dense palmetto thickets to open understories with few shrubs. The purpose of this project was to investigate the possibility that understory composition was primarily an artifact of past agricultural activity, rather than a product of anthropogenic burning or of soil moisture gradients. Historic maps were utilized to select areas of forest that had: 1) no history as agricultural fields, 2) use as cotton fields during the plantation era of the late eighteenth and the first half of the nineteenth century, 3) use for grazing during the era of private estates from 1881 to 1916, and 4) combinations of 2 and 3. The canopy and understory of 27 sample fields or non-agricultural areas were sampled by at least four randomly selected 50 m line-intercept transects. Sites with no known history of agriculture had dense understories of saw palmetto, Serenoa repens, had relatively high dominance indices for red bay, Persea borbonia, had few vines and almost no grass and forb cover. Fields with a history of grazing during the late nineteenth century had very open understories with greater dominance of grasses and forbs and widely scattered rings of saw palmetto. Sparkleberry, Vaccinium arboreum, and pines, particularly loblolly, Pinus taeda, were also characteristic of these sites. Fields utilized for cultivation during the plantation era, but not shown as fields on the late nineteenth century map had intermediate densities of palmetto, including some sabal palm, Sabal palmetto, and high covers of grasses, forbs and vines. The non-agricultural sites had significantly greater depths of soil litter and duff, but there were no significant differences in litter or duff depth among the agricultural field types. The results imply that the open understories in the maritime oak forest have not historically been maintained by either anthropogenic or natural fire, but are artifacts of cultivation and human land management extending back to aboriginal settlement of the island.
10.2307/2484644|The European wild boar (Sus scrofa), an exotic species, is severely damaging the vernal flora of hardwood forests in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park. Since the hogs entered the Park during the 1940's, their range has continually expanded and now includes about half the total area of the Park. Quadrat sampling of both disturbed and undisturbed sites in Gray Beech Forest indicates that hog rooting can reduce the cover of the herbaceous understory to less than 5% of its expected value. Over 50 non-woody species are known to be eaten, uprooted or trampled by hogs. The damaged wild flowers include such species as Claytonia virginica, Dicentra cucullaria, Lilium superbum, Phacelia flmbriata, Stellaria pubera and Trillium erectum. Disturbed species exhibit changes in population structure including a reduction in the percentage of mature and flowering individuals and reduction in clump size. Changes in species composition in disturbed plots favor plants with deep or poisonous roots. Local extinctions of the most sensitive species may be expected as rooting continues.
10.2307/2996977|We sampled the litter accumulated in five seral sites (aged 5, 15, 23, 29, and 47 yr) and in an oldgrowth forest in early spring and fall. We collected and weighed all the litter in twelve 0.24 m
10.2307/2483836|The vegetation of Boiling Springs Natural Area was surveyed on 10 random 100 m
10.2307/2996993|The Sandhills region of the southeastern United States is characterized as having deep, xeric, sandy soils supporting forest types comprised largely of two species, longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) and turkey oak (Quercus laevis). This study examined species composition with respect to elevation in the Boyd Tract, a 66 ha old growth longleaf pine forest in the North Carolina Sandhills. Sixty plots were established within two distinct site types: an atypical mesic type at higher (>165 m) elevations (uplands) and a more typical xeric type at lower (165 m) elevations (lowlands). Canonical discriminant analysis revealed distinct clusters of plots associated with these topographic positions on the first canonical axis. Strongest canonical correlations on this axis were found for hardwood species: negative for turkey oak; positive for black oak (Q. velutina), hickories (Carya spp.), and dogwood (Cornus florida). Sand content showed a significant negative relationship with clay content, representing a texture gradient between a maximum sand content of 92% in the lowland and a maximum clay content of 17% in the upland. There was a significant negative correlation between canonical axis 1 scores and sand content and a significant positive correlation between axis 1 scores and clay content. These data suggest that soil texture may be largely responsible for the distribution of hardwood species, but not longleaf pine, within this old growth forest. The higher clay content (and presumably higher moisture and fertility) of the upland soils have allowed for the development of a forest type which, with the exception of large, infrequent longleaf stems, more closely resembles the oak-hickory forests of the adjacent North Carolina Piedmont than would be expected, given its location within the Sandhills region.
10.2307/2996941|Root distribution by depth, size class and community type was evaluated along a chronosequence on Hog Island, part of the Virginia Coast Reserve Long Term Ecological Research site. Total nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations in roots were also determined. The communities included an Ammophila breviligulata dune, two Myrica cerifera stands and two Spartina patens communities. Most biomass was within the top 20 cm of soil representing 75% to 93% of total biomass. Distributions of root mass among size classes varied among sites. On Spartina sites, most total biomass (70% to 84%) was in the <2 mm size class. The 2-5 mm size class (59%) dominated the dune site and the >5 mm size class (51% to 78%) dominated the Myrica sites. Total biomass increased with site age ranging from 372 g/m
10.2307/2482123|1. The three-dimensional shapes of 100 cork cambium and 100 cork cells from the stem of Pelargonium hortorum Bailey were reconstructed for the purpose of making a comparison between lateral meristem cells and the cells produced by them. A comparison was also made between dividing and non-dividing cork cambium cells. 2. Measurements of the cork cambium cells show them to be elongate in a direction parallel to the axis of the plant and to have a rectangular outline in cross-section, with a shorter radial than tangential dimension. Cork cells were similarly elongate, but had the radial dimension larger than that of the cork cambium cells. 3. Dividing cork cambium cells had a higher average number of faces per cell (14.92) than non-dividing cells (13.46) presumably due, at least in part, to the greater number of adjacent dividing cells in the former group. 4. The data tended to demonstrate that the increase in the number of faces per cell preceded the actual division of the cell. 5. In the material analyzed, the cork cells were of two general kinds, one produced by cork cambium cells that had undergone an anticlinal division, and the second, cork cells that came from a cork cambium cell that had not undergone such a division. The average number of faces per cell for the former group was 13.10, while the average for the latter was 14.72 faces per cell. 6. Non-dividing cork cambium cells resembled cork cells more closely than they did dividing cork cambium cells. 7. Pentagonal faces occurred most frequently in both the cork and cork cambium cells; quadrilaterals came next in frequency in the cork cambium cells, followed by hexagons; in the cork cells hexagons came second with quadrilaterals third. 8. There were 86 different combinations of faces in the cork cambium cells and 55 combinations in the cork cells. Cork cells were more homogeneous in this respect and had two combinations which occurred 9 times, consisting of 4 quadrilaterals, 4 pentagons, and 6 hexagons (4-4-6), and 3 quadrilaterals, 6 pentagons, and 2 hexagons (3-6-2). In the cork cambium cells the two most frequently occurring combinations appeared 3 times and contained 5 quadrilaterals, 4 pentagons, 4 hexagons, and 2 heptagons (5-4-4-2), and 2 quadrilaterals, 8 pentagons, and 3 hexagons (2-8-3). 9. An average cork cambium cell could logically be reconstructed from the data. This hypothetical average cell had 14 faces distributed as follows: 1 face for each of 2 tangential surfaces, 4 faces each for 2 radial surfaces, and 2 faces each for the top and bottom surface. 10. Many aspects of the shapes of the cork cells could be explained in terms of the divisions which occurred in the cork cambium cells producing these cells, and by the positions of the radial surfaces of the cells above and below the cork cells being studied. 11. A serial sequence of the cork cells produced by a single cork cambium cell showed that the cells in such a sequence were similar but not identical to one another both with respect to the kinds of faces and to the arrangements of those faces.
10.2307/2996159|Tree regeneration was investigated on six sites disturbed by fire at and immediately below the upper altitudinal tree limit in the Colorado Front Range. Before disturbance, the sites with greatest topographic shelter were dominated by Engelmann spruce (Picea engelmannii) and subalpine fir (Abies lasiocarpa) The most xeric sites were dominated by limber pine (Pinus flexilis). High intersite variability in regeneration rates and population densities suggest that early forest stand development was not closely related to elapsed time since disturbance, but varied depending upon topography. Among the xeric sites that were regenerating, limber pine was among the most frequently noted species. Conversely, Engelmann spruce, and to a lesser extent subalpine fir, were found with highest densities on the less xeric sites. In general, these patterns of establishment are consistent with those noted in other studies of forest stand development at lower altitudes in the subalpine forest of the Colorado Front Range. Two of the burned sites were not regenerating. It is hypothesized that lack of seed caching by Clark's Nutcracker (Nucifraga columbiana), the primary seed disperser for limber pine, was limiting colonization of these sites. All sites were at an early stage of successional development, and a forest canopy cover had not yet developed. Rates of regeneration suggest that in most cases the tree limit will return to its former altitudinal position. However, it may be several centuries before these sites develop stands similar to those that existed before disturbance.
10.2307/2483550|The New World genus Appunia and New World representatives of Morinda of the tribe Morindeae (Rubiaceae) have unique fruits and seeds which readily segregate these from 41 genera of the Rubioideae. The fruits are 4-loculate, each locule with one pyrene. The endocarp of the pyrene develops a bladder-like cavity on the adaxial side. The seeds are vascular and winged; the trabeculae of the alar cells readily segregate the genera. The sclerenchyma elements of the seed suggest a close relationship between the tribe Morindeae and the tribe Coussareae. The description of the Panamanian species, Appunia seibertii Standley, used in the present study, is emended; a key to the Central American spp. of Morinda and Appunia is included.
10.2307/2483327|Cytological evidence from Plantago ovata (n = 4) supports the concept that homologous chromosome pairing occurs at latest before the beginning of the last premeiotic interphase before meiosis. Homologous chromosome pairing is evident in both those flower parts destined and not destined to undergo meiosis. Observations support earlier work which indicate each of the eight chromosomes is represented in interphase by a distinct heterochromatic prochromosome. A reduction from eight prochromosomes in root tip cells to four prochromosomes in all flower tissues indicate a reduction of prochromosome number by pairing. The paired condition of prochromosomes is visible through the last premeiotic interphase until shortly before the first meiotic division begins.
10.2307/2995935|A Spartina alterniflora Loisel. (Gramineae)-dominated salt marsh located along the Elorn River at 48.5
10.2307/2996561|The importance of fluctuation (non-directional irregular changes), regeneration (recovery from disturbance) and landscape heterogeneity upon a tallgrass prairie in northeast Kansas, which is prescribe burned in the spring once every 4 years, is described. All three processes were shown to be important in influencing, to varying degrees, the structure, life forms, and overall species composition. The biomass of grass, forbs and litter, and the relative abundance of different life forms were highly coupled with the burning cycle. Relative abundance of only a few species was related to the burning cycle, most species varied according to yearly climatic variation, soil type and differences between watershed units In contrast, the frequency of a number of annual species was related to the burning cycle Overall community patterns were related primarily to original landscape heterogeneity and secondarily to the burning cycle. Recognition of these patterns was a function of the scale of analysis
10.2307/2996539|Sandhill vegetation dominated by Pinus palustris, Pinus elliottii var densa, Quercus laevis, and Aristida stricta, and sand pine scrub dominated by Pinus clausa, scrub oaks, and Carya floridana form mutually exclusive, fire-dependent communities on Florida's sand ridges Soil differences have long been attributed as causing this separation Data from 1932 maps, 1929 photo plots, vegetation analyses, age structure of the pines, and fire scar dates indicate sandhills convert to xeric hardwood-mixed pine after approximately 50 years without fire, e g, importance value of Carya floridana increased from 3 2 to 75 6; relative importance value of scrub species increased from 2 5 to 54 percent This intermediate stage may develop into a xeric hardwood forest without fire, and with fire it may be replaced by sand pine scrub Apparently different fire regimes not soil differences separate the two vegetation types Historic and prehistoric shifts in fire regimes may account for the distribution of the two types
10.2307/2996288|Fifteen new populations of the rare Carex biltmoreana were found during the 1981 to 1983 growing seasons. C. biltmoreana is closely related to C. woodii, C. tetanica, C. meadii, but can easily be separated from these taxa on the basis of vegetative characters. The range of the Biltmore sedge includes the Blue Ridge province of southwestern North Carolina, northwestern South Carolina, and northeastern Georgia. Here, the plant is confined to wet, partially-shaded, granitic rock faces. At present, only 21 populations of C. biltmoreana are known.
10.2307/2484153|The ultrastructural characteristics of the two types of conducting cells in mosses, leptoids and hydroids, are discussed in relation to the hypothesis that the bryophytes (mosses) evolved from a vascularized ancestral type that possessed many of the sporophytic attributes of the psilophytales but retained a more complex autotrophic gametophyte. The developmental trends in the conducting tissues of mosses are presented and are used to illustrate how research on bryophytic conducting systems can contribute to defining the structural level of conducting tissue in the ancestral type of land plant that gave rise to the bryophytes and tracheophytes.
10.2307/2997104|Woody species in an Appalachian Oak watershed in Shenandoah National Park, VA, were intensively sampled to investigate spatial vegetation patterns with respect to topography, and to predict future forest dynamics. Canonical correlation, cluster analysis, and discriminant analysis demonstrate that both individual species and species assemblages are significantly related to topographic variables; however, there is a great deal of unexplained variance in the data. Correlation analysis on a subset of the data shows that factors such as shrub cover and surface rockiness, which are relatively independent of topography, tend to be more important predictors of forest composition. A study of diameter distributions suggests that most species' populations are stable or increasing in number. Exceptions to this include the dominant species in the watershed, Quercus spp., in particular, Quercus prinus, all of which have relatively low numbers of seedlings. Nevertheless, analysis of life-history attributes of these species, as well as a computer simulation of forest dynamics for this area, suggest that Quercus spp. will continue to retain their position of dominance in the future, with Quercus rubra becoming increasingly important relative to Quercus prinus.
10.2307/2996663|Morphological and restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) data were analyzed to determine the phylogenetic affinities of I. gracilis and species previously considered allied with that species on the basis of morphology. Both data sets indicate that the names I. gracilis and I. littoralis represent not only distinct species, but that they should be placed in different sections of the genus: I. gracilis in section Erpipomoea or a distinct related section, and I. littoralis in section Batatas. The data further indicate that the pantropical littoral species I. pes-caprae and I. violacea may be closely allied with different species endemic to Australia.
10.2307/2996645|Regeneration by woody species on a 1-year-old whole-tree harvested clearcut in a Maine hardwood stand was examined with respect to stem origin (advance regeneration, new seedlings, or sprouts) by species. Sprouts dominated (79%) the biomass with new stems and advanced regeneration contributing 13% and 8%, respectively. In contrast, density was about evenly divided between sprouts (50%) and new stems (47%). The most important contributors to sprout density were Fagus grandifolia (50%) and Populus spp. (25%), but Populus spp. contributed the most to sprout biomass (52%) due to the greater size of their stems. Advance regeneration density (only 3% of total density) was due almost entirely to Acer saccharum (56%) and Acer rubrum (41%), but the latter dominated the biomass of advance stems (81%) due to a few large individuals in one plot. Prunus pensylvanica (18%), Rubus spp. (34%), and Betula spp. (35%) dominated new stem density, but the first two contributed 83% of the new stem biomass. Frequency of occurrence for the above-mentioned species ranged from 37-80%, and each species, with the exception of A. pensylvanicum and Betula spp., dominated (accounted for >80%) the biomass of at least one plot. Most species were represented primarily by one form of regeneration: A. pensylvanicum, F. grandifolia, and Populus spp. (sprouts); Betula spp., Prunus pensylvanica, and Rubus spp. (new seedlings). A. saccharum and A. rubrum were represented by a mixture of sprouts, advanced seedlings, and/or new seedlings.
10.2307/2484029|Shoot production of five populations of Typha latifolia on infertile sites ranged from 530 to 1,132 g dry wt/m
10.2307/2481797|Three representatives of Emilia occur in West Africa, and one plant (E. guineensis) is considered to have been erroneously referred to this genus. One representative of the genus is reported here for the first time as an element of the West African flora; its proper designation has not been determined. Mitotic and meiotic analyses were made for the three West African plants: two were diploid (2n = 10, n = 5), one tetraploid. Idiograms of chromosomes give no evidence of phyletic relations. But the tetraploid seems to have some affinity to E. coccinea which, as a tetraploid, is a tropical American weed and which is the only other cytologically known representative of the genus.
10.2307/2482462|1. Prescribed burning, while removing the litter layer, favors development of a bryophyte-lichen layer. This layer may cover as much as 48% of the ground. 2. Three species of turf type represent 98% of the moss cover, one species of cushion type little over 1%, and three species of mat type cover about 0.5%. Lichens cover nearly as much area as bryophytes. 3. Under laboratory conditions, well developed moss mats of the kind studied when air dried may absorb an average of .62 inches of rainfall, ranging from .52 inches (Dicranum) to .68 (Ceratodon and Leucobryum). Well developed lichen mats may absorb from .15 inches to .28 inches depending on the species. 4. Assuming the mosses dry out completely between storms, they may intercept as much as 50% of the throughfall where they occur. Lichens may intercept about half as much as the mosses. 5. As an interceptor of precipitation the bryophyte layer, even at its maximum, is, on an area basis, probably never as important as the thick, continuous litter layer of areas not subjected to prescribed burning.
10.2307/2996366|The forest vegetation (stems  2.5 cm dbh) of the Knobs Region of Kentucky was studied at eight sites to provide baseline information concerning species composition, stand structure and species-environment relations in this distinct geologic and physiographic region. Species composition closely resembled that of the Cumberland Plateau of eastern Kentucky. However, important differences exist which suggest comparison with both the Oak-Hickory Forest and the Oak-Chestnut Forest. Four recognizable groups of plots were identified by indirect ordination of 147 sample plots. A mesophytic hardwoods group comparable to the mixed mesophytic forest of the Cumberland Plateau was readily distinguished from plots dominated by Quercus alba, Q. coccinea, and Q. prinus. Samples of the mesophytic hardwoods exhibited a gradient in composition from plots with Fagus grandifolia as a dominant to those with Acer saccharum and Liriodendron tulipifera. Samples of this group were restricted to protected coves where potential solar radiation was lower and soil pH and fertility were higher. Oak-dominated plots showed a gradient in composition between the three extremes in which Q. alba, Q. coccinea, and Q. prinus, respectively, were dominant. No consistent environmental trends seemed to distinguish the distributions of these three oak-dominated groups, and their occurrence may be the product of a geographical gradient of the dominant species rather than distribution along local environmental gradients. Plots dominated by either Q. alba or Q. prinus showed higher concentration of dominance, suggesting that interactions between these dominants and their associates may be more antagonistic than in mesophytic forest hardwoods and Q. coccinea plots.
10.2307/2484394|Lime-shells, oospores and starch grains from Nitellopsis obtusa (Desv. in Lois.). J. Gr., a modern charophyte (alga), were studied. Immature lime-shells were identical to those of fossil Tectochara merianii (Heer) L. & N. Grambast except for a smaller size range. Mature lime-shells were identical to those of T diluviana (Madler) L. Grambast. Lime-shells of T. ixtapensis Daily were similar but the largest. The Tectochara-Nitellopsis sequence apparently developed in the Oligocene (possibly Cretaceous) exhibiting lime-shells with an apical rosette, a conspicuous hour-glass-shaped pore and a wide, thin, deeply placed basal plug. The lime-shells of this series show little change from the most ancient species to the modern Nitellopsis obtusa. However, the branchlets differ slightly. Large starch grains from the oospores of Nit. obtusa are simple, semi-compound (rarely compound) differing considerably from the large simple grains of Lamprothamnium. This further substantiates the transferal (Daily 1967) of Nit. bulbillifera C. C. Dont., which also has large, simple grains, to Lamprothamnium. Apparently, lime-shells of the modern L. hornemannii (Wallm.) Daily are only superficially similar to those of the fossil T. ixtapensis. Instead, there is a greater resemblance (because of the large apical pore) to those of the Jurassic organ-genus Porochara. Thus, the Porochara-Lamprothamnium series extends from the Jurassic to the present with not much change in the external characteristics of the lime-shell from P. kimmeridgensis Madler to L. hornemannii except for size.
10.2307/2481930|1. Despite the failure thus far to obtain viable confirmed hybrids of G. gossypioides with other American wild species, the pairing behavior in the F
10.2307/2484154|Exogenously applied auxin and gibberellin elicit morphogenetic responses in bryophytes much as they do in vascular plants. Auxin stimulated rhizoid formation as well as cell proliferation and elongation. Endogenous physiological systems can be identified and characterized that are normally associated with the expression of these growth regulators. Auxin oxidase and phenolic cofactors have been found in a liverwort. Specialized tissues transport auxin under aerobic conditions with a predictable directionality. Apical dominance is manifested and is related to the levels of growth regulators. Gibberellin promotes cell enlargement, chloroplast development and starch degradation; in conjunction with photoperiod, it can influence geotropic curvature. Gibberellin also elicits ultrastructural changes in starch granules and thylakoids. The accumulated evidence supports the supposition that the plant growth regulators express developmental control in bryophytes analogous to their function in tracheophytes.
10.2307/2996070|Procambial development was followed in pistils of Muhlenbergia using serially sectioned spikelets. Immediately after stylar initiation, the pistil is a residual meristem lacking procambium. Two stylar procambial strands begin in the lower flanks of the ovary. Next a procambial placental bundle forms below the ovule between the stylar procambia. Basipetal differentiation from the union of the placental bundle and the stylar traces then links procambium differentiating acropetally from near the stamen insertions. After the parenchyma gap between the pistil and the stamen insertions is bridged, a second procambial site occurs near each style's insertion. Subsequently the upper and lower procambia for each style fuse. Procambial development like that of Muhlenbergia by which the placental and stylar bundles merge below the ovule (the gynobasic pattern) may be more widespread among the grass subfamilies than development in which the stylar traces merge with the placental bundle above the base of the ovule (the gynomedian pattern).
10.2307/2996021|A comparison of how microrelief (fine-grained soil surface heterogeneity) influenced plant species diversity (richness and equitability) was made along a subalpine coenocline. There were significant differences among six sites, but the influence of microrelief on diversity was strongly influenced by community productivity Where productivity is low, environmental stress overwhelms any microrelief effects that might enhance diversity. Where productivity is moderate, diversity is positively related to some measures of microrelief, but not to others Communities with high productivity show a negative correlation between diversity and measures of surface heterogeneity. Microscale heterogeneity at the scale measured in these subalpine meadows has a secondary role in molding community structure The degree of productivity, competition, and grazing are of greater importance, but microrelief must be taken into account for a full understanding of community dynamics
10.2307/2484627|In an attempt to establish the effect of water extracts of a known allelopathic species upon growth, photosynthesis, respiration, and water content of Andropogon gerardi, A. scoparius, and Bromus japonicus, seedlings of these grasses were grown in nutrient solution enriched with boiled aqueous leaf extract of Celtis laevigata. The extracts decreased shoot and root growth of all test species. Net CO
10.2307/2484535|Voitia hyperborea was first proposed by Greville and Arnott in 1822 on the basis of a specimen collected in 1820 on Melville Island in the Canadian Arctic Archipelago during one of the early British voyages of arctic exploration. Because of its restriction to arctic regions, this moss has remained poorly understood, and has been placed incorrectly in the synonymy of V. nivalis Hornsch., a species of the Alps, the Rocky Mountains, and Turkestan. However, the two species are quite separate and differ conspicuously, especially in their capsule shape, V. nivalis having an elongated, narrowly ovate-cylindrical capsule, and V. hyperborea a much shorter and broader capsule shaped like an inverted funnel. The patterns of geographical distribution of the two species are also entirely different. Illustrations are provided to show these morphological differences, as well as the geographic range of V. hyperborea in North America.
10.2307/2996469|Emily Lovira Gregory (1841-1897) of Barnard College, New York, was the first American woman to receive a doctorate in botany (1886) and to write a plant anatomy book. The annotated bibliography contains three lists: Gregory's 51 papers and reviews of publications (1886-1897, 1987); her 16 talks and two exhibits (1889-1896); accounts of her life.
10.2307/2483274|Cytological investigations were made on the meiosis of the monocarpic Gebang Palm. Corypha elata Roxburgh, and the meiotic division of the P.M.C.'s was described. The entire flowering period of C. elata is shorter than of the previously investigated species, C. umbraculifera. The meiotic division of C. elata takes place before its feathery inflorescence appears, and its division also occurs more rapidly. In the prophase of the first meiotic division, two phenomena were observed, i.e., the budding of the nucleoli and the formation of a Feulgen-positive substance at the nucleolar organizing region. According to the size of their buds, 9312 nucleoli were grouped into five catagories. These catagories were correlated with the seven subphases (from resting stage to diakinesis) of the first meiotic division. The first small buds appear at leptotene, and the buds grow in size gradually during the subsequent phases. Simultaneously, the proportion of the budded nucleoli increases. This process culminates in late pachytene. From early diplotene the majority of these buds seem to become gradually reduced in size and they disappear by early diakinesis. To determine whether the budding process is involved with an increase in the amount of nucleolar substance, by synthesis of new nucleolar material, or only an alteration of the shape of the nucleolus, the volume of 329 nucleoli and their corresponding buds was measured. These nucleoli were grouped again into five categories, and in each category the average volume of the total nucleolar bulk was computed. The data obtained have shown that there was no increase in the total volume of the nucleolar body. Budding increases the surface of the nucleolar body, and this may indicate that the metabolic activity of the nucleolus is intensified during the formation of buds. The location of the nucleolar organizing region, i.e., the attachment of the SAT chromosomes, is similar to that in C. umbraculifera. On budded nucleoli the attachment segment is collar-like, situated on the narrowest part of the nucleolar bulk between the nucleolus and the bud. At early zygotene a Feulgen-positive substance appears partly at this region and partly at the upper segment of the SAT threads, attached directly to the nucleolar organizing region. Diakinesis metaphase and subsequent phases of the first and second divisions were normal. The haploid chromosome number of C. elata is 18. As no constant or repeated secondary pairing was observed, C. elata is not considered a polyploid species. This observation supports Sato (1952) who suggested that the basic number of "Corypheae" is identical with the haploid number, n = 18.
10.2307/2483162|1. Averting pairs of cultures of D. maydis when seeded simultaneously in potato-dextrose broth and incubated for 10 to 20 days at a temperature ranging between 22
10.2307/2482269|The Pacific North American species of Dictyotaceae heretofore known under the name Dictyota. in the older, broader sense are examined. The generic segregates Dilophus, Pachydictyon and Dictyota are recognized according to J, G. Agardh, 1894. Dilophus pinnatus Dawson is described as new from Nayarit, Mexico. Pachydictyon Binghamiae Dawson is a new combination being inclusive of the plants known from Pacific America as Dictyota Binghamiae J. Ag, from the Gulf of California as D. Johnstonii S. & G. and from Japan as Pachydictyon coriaceum (Holmes) Okam. Dilophus Okamurai Dawson is a new name for a plant of Japan heretofore known as Dilophus marginatus (non J. Ag.) Okam. It is newly reported from Pacific Mexico. Dictyota cribrosa S. & G. is recognized as including those plants of the Monterey, California and Cape Arago, Oregon regions heretofore known as Dictyota flabellata. Dictyota hesperia S. & G. is shown to have been erroneously described and is reduced under D. flabellata (Collins) S. & G. Its distinction from Pachydictyon Binghamiae (Dictyota Johnstonii) in the Gulf of California is clarified. Dictyota Vivesii Howe is reduced under D. dichotoma (Huds.) Lamour which is newly reported from Pacific Mexico. Dictyota concrescens Taylor is treated as an inadequately known species.
10.2307/2483382|The addition of a water extract of beech wood to a "complete" medium (R) of mineral salts, dextrose, casein hydrolysate, vitamins and purine and pyrimidine bases, had a marked favorable effect on the growth of each of eight basidiomycetes investigated. Growth of Fomes fulvus (Scop. ex Fr.) Gill., Hymenochaete rubiginosa (Dicks. ex Fr.) Lev., and Polyporus radiatus Sow. ex Fr., was substantially improved by increasing the Mn, Zn, Fe, and Ca in the (R) medium. Additional minerals had little or no effect on Corticium lividum Pers. ex Fr., Hydnum chrysocomum Underwood, Peniophora coccineofulva (Schw.) Burt., Poria tenuis (Schw.) Cooke, and Stereum fasciatum (Schw.) Fr. The addition of ferulic acid to the (R) medium supplemented with Mn, Zn, Fe and Ca increased the growth of seven of the fungi. It had little or no effect on Peniophora coccineofulva. Growth of Fomes fulvus and Polyporus radiatus in the (R) medium supplemented with additional Mn, Zn, Fe and Ca and 200  g per culture of ferulic acid equaled or surpassed growth in the (R) medium plus wood extract. The growth of Corticium lividum, Hydnum chrysocomum, Poria tenuis and Stereum fasciatum was improved by the addition of ferulic acid, but the maximum growth did not equal that obtained with wood extract.
10.2307/2483874|Didymodon columbianus is described from two localities along the Columbia River in Oregon and Washington. It is distinguished from other American species of the genus primarily in having the peristome almost obsolete.
10.2307/2484942|Leaves of marihuana plants growing at low elevations, compared to ones growing at higher elevations, are smaller, dull-green in color, and have higher stomatal frequency. They also have longer and more numerous trichomes.
10.2307/2482785|1. This investigation presents a taxonomic treatment of five closely related, perennial species of the genus Setaria from the southwestern United States and northern Mexico. 2. Evidence in the form of chromosome numbers, populational studies, and a reevaluation of morphological characters has been presented to support the interpretation that S. macrostachya H.B.K. (sensu Hitchcock) should be separated into three distinct species; S. texana sp. nov., S. macrostachya H.B.K. (sensu stricta) and S. leucopila (Scribn. & Merr.) K. Schum. 3. Similar evidence has been applied in clarifying the species limits of S. scheelei (Steud.) Hitchc. and S. villosissima (Scribn. & Merr.) K. Schum.
10.2307/2484189|Under experimental conditions, flowers of Hepatica acutiloba produce far fewer achenes when denied access to the pollen of coblooming plants. A total of forty floral foragers that represented three insect orders, composed of eleven genera and nine definitely identified species were collected bearing sternotribic loads of the host plant's pollen. Results of experimental data, forager collection and personal observation demonstrate that xenogamy is the dominant mode of pollination in this species via an entomophilous syndrome and is affected largely by early emerging, solitary bees.
10.2307/2483399|The radiocarbon dates of bottom samples from McDonalds Branch bog and a bog in a meander scar of the Oswego River are given. The former was determined as 9125  195 B.P. and the latter as 10,485  240 B.P. The impact of these dates on the interpretation of the published pollen diagrams for the area is discussed.
10.2307/2996411|Leaf macronutrient variation was studied in four plant communities in the Dismal Swamp of Virginia Soils and species composition differed markedly between sites Eight important overstory trees were studied in August, 1980; whereas red maple (Acer rubrum L) and black gum (Nyssa sylvatica var biflora (Walter) Sargent), which occurred on all four sites, were sampled seasonally Significant differences were found in foliar nutrient concentrations between species, seasons, and sites. Potassium and phosphorus appear to be limiting in the swamp as indicated by sub-optimal levels in the leaves The tree species which dominate the swamp overstory accumulate lower amounts of macronutrients than many other hardwood species Despite the rather poor edaphic conditions, some tree species in the swamp display foliar nutrient levels similar to those found in the same species on upland sites
10.2307/2996017|Seasonal patterns of leaf water potential and stomatal conductances were determined for two species of goldenrods (Solidago juncea, a dry site species, and S canadensis, a wet site species) in greenhouse experiments Both seedlings and genetically-identical clonal transplants grown across broad gradients of soil moisture-holding capacity were used The size of seedlings of each species was positively related to soil moisture availability, yet there were no differences in leaf water potentials or stomatal conductances across the gradient Seedlings of S juncea had lower leaf water potentials than did S canadensis throughout the day, but similar stomatal conductances, reflecting the larger leaf size of S juncea The mean number of stomata per unit area of fully-expanded leaf were similar for the two species (179 9  18 7 mm
10.2307/2484663|Maihuenia, a genus of pulviform cacti endemic to southern South America, is anatomically described for the two putative species. Stems of both species have medullary and cortical mucilage reservoirs, no collenchymatous hypodermis, and an unusual epidermis with tangentially thickened primary walls. Unlike Opuntioideae, Maihuenia lacks stellate druses in the outermost cortex. The small, terete leaves have a central mucilage reservoir surrounded by a vascular reticulum, large mucilage cells within the chlorenchyma, and an epidermis similar to that of the stem. Stem secondary xylem is at first nonfibrous, composed of very short and narrow vessel elements and vascular tracheids with secondary thickenings and unlignified fusiform parenchyma cells. Older stems produce clusters of short libriform fibers in discontinuous concentric bands, pitted vessel elements, few, if any, vascular tracheids, and unlignified fusiform parenchyma cells. Wood fiber production occurs earlier in decumbent stems than in basal stems, but fibers are evidently more abundant in basal portions. The main root is highly succulent and produces no wood fibers, whereas large secondary and very thin adventitious roots are progressively less succulent and produce fibers. Ontogenetic changes in xylem cell types and lateral walls in Maihuenia are more easily understood from analyses of differences in growth regulator concentrations rather than arguments based solely on plant-water relationships and mechanical considerations. Vegetative features of Maihuenia negate its inclusion in Opuntioideae and suggest that Maihuenia shares ancestry with certain large-leaved, fruticose species of Pereskia endemic to the Andes.
10.2307/2997147|1. Short photoperiods of 8 and 10 hours given to one and two week old seedlings of late sown Dalua (spring) variety of rice grown in Orissa till the time of ear emergence have induced flowering within 3 months as against 7 months required by the control plants. 2. Although the short photoperiod treated plants flowered early, the yield was very poor. There were fewer grains and spikelets per ear. The lower percentage of grain setting observed is attributed to the interaction of high temperature and low relative humidity with the prevailing length of day.
10.2307/2481806|1. Synchytrium modioliensis produces two main types of galls on the leaves of Modiola caroliniana and other malvaceous hosts, sporangial and resting spore galls. 2. The predominant type of sporangial gall usually is large, protruding, sub-spherical, oval, oblong, assymetrical, dark reddish-lavender, composite and multicellular, and consists of a greatly enlarged infected cell which is almost completely or partly surrounded by a sheath of one to three layers of healthy cells. Usually, the opening or pore to the infected cell is subapical, but it may be almost lateral or sublateral and vary markedly in dimensions. In rare cases the sporangial galls may be simple and unicellular or bi- and tri-cellular. Accordingly, they may vary from simple to composite, but the latter type is predominant. No compound galls have been found. 3. The resting spore galls, on the other hand, are small, predominantly, simple and unicellular and usually consist only of an enlarged infected cell. The latter may project partly above the surface of the host or be partly submerged in the host tissues. Occasionally or rarely resting spore galls may become bi-, tri-, and multicellular, so that they also vary from simple to composite. However, the simple unicellular gall is the predominant type. 4. Sometimes infection and development of sporangia or resting spores do not result in gall development. In most cases of infection of trichomes observed, cell division and cell enlargement were lacking. However, in occasional instances an infected cell of the stellate trichomes was transformed into an incomplete sporangial gall.
10.2307/2484444|The location and performance of understory herb patches may be influenced by a number of environmental factors. Patch density is related to variation in average plant size and reproductive patterns in some clonal perennial species. It has been predicted that among clonal species of stable habitats levels of vegetative reproduction (VRE) should decrease relative to levels of sexual reproduction (SRE) with increasing density or intraspecific competitive stress. The results of an earlier analysis of the reproductive patterns of Aster acuminatus; a perennial herb which colonizes gaps in the forest, revealed no relationship between density and average plant size, level of sexual reproduction, or level of vegetative reproduction. Among patches at a younger forest, where light levels and patch densities exceed those used in the earlier study in a mature forest, average plant weight decreases with increasing density, SRE exhibits a complex relationship with density, and VRE is constant across a wide range of densities. Plant size, which plays an important role in determining reproductive patterns, is also influenced by the favorability of past growing seasons. From patterns exhibited by patches experiencing different light and density regimes, a diagrammatic model of the dynamics of an aster patch is constructed.
10.2307/2484490|This study compares the response of understory herbs to small scale changes in soil depth in low diversity forests in the Adirondack and a high diversity cove forest in the Great Smoky Mountains. The species distributions along the gradient were similar in both areas. The increase in species diversity in the cove forest site was not related to an increase in species packing along the soil depth gradient, but appeared to be related to species' response to other environmental factors.
10.2307/2482724|1. The purpose of the study was (a) to determine the causal origin of the centripetal deposits of oxidized phenols in the 0 type endodermis, (b) to de- termine whether apparent variations in the endodermis through zones of species range and environ are a result of functional response by adjustment, (c) to determine whether a given endodermal cell type is a fixed phe- nomenon within each clone. 2. High latitude and high altitude (northern) plants were found to have, in the subaerial stem, an endodermis with centripetal walls containing oxidized and deposited phenol derivatives. 3. In low latitude and low altitude (southern) plants the endodermis of subaerial stems did not regularly contain deposits of oxidized phenols. 4. The deposition of oxidized phenols was found to be irregular and dif- fuse in plants intermediate in range. 5. Clonal transplants showed response to new habitat by development of a more pronounced endodermis in northern situations but in general an irregular or weak endodermis developed in southern and tropical forms grown under northern conditions. Northern forms grown under southern or tropical conditions did not develop an endodermis of the conspicuous 0 type. 6. Spectrophotometric analyses of cortical extracts, and direct micro- spectrophotometric analyses of the phenolic content of the cortical cells in fresh sections, showed that the quantity of polyphenols was in general greater in northern than in southern, prairie or full-sun forms. The moun- tain and shade forms of several species developed browning reaction prod- ucts in cortical extracts; these browning products transmitted less light at 640 mup than similar extracts from clones grown in full sun in northern coastal plain, prairie or field habitats. 7. Phenols obtained from the cortex were compared photometrically with known phenols. Transmission of the indophenol color products of the reaction of 2,6-Dichloroquinonechloroimide with phenol extracts from th cortex were compared with the indophenols obtained with phloroglucinol. Phloroglucinol was found to be the probable phenolic substance present in cortical cells and endodermal cells prior to the browning reaction. The diaminomethylbenzaldehyde test for phloroglucinol gave a stable and diag- nostic color product in fresh sections and extracts confirming the presence of phloroglucinol.8. It may be concluded that phloroglucinol and possibly other poly- phenols are the precursors to the browning products functionally developed in the O type endodermis and adventitiously induced in the cortex by wounding and making cortical extracts. Northern forms of Smilax produce large amounts of oxidizable phloroglucinol derivatives in subaerial stems and the endodermis is prominently developed up to the groundline. South- ern forms develop smaller amounts of phloroglucinol derivates in subaerial stems, even when grown under northern conditions, and the 0 type endo- dermis is absent or irregularly developed. 9. It is apparent that phenolic oxidation and deposition to form the O type endodermis in subaerial stems is a response to environ limited pri- marily to northern or intermediate species. Supportive evidence for the causal mechanism (tannin -- polyphenol A+/- quinone -- phlobaphesns ->0 type endodermis) has been adduced but the evolutionary significance has not been revealed.
10.2307/2482993|1. The results of studies on the growth rates of six lichens are summarized for a period of about nine years. 2. The foliose species Parmelia isidiata has grown regularly at the rate of 1.6 mm. per year in radius.3. Crustose species increased in radius from .33 to 1.4 mm. per year. 4. Records of coverage in the rock quadrats and a smmnary of the soil stations are also presented.
10.2307/2483795|The bryophyte component of 9 ecosystems including alpine, coniferous, northern hardwoods, oak woods and intervening types was studied at Mt. Washington, N.H. Coverage in the ecosystems studied varies from 3,136 cm
10.2307/2484521|Germination of pollen of Cupressus benthamii, C. macrocarpa and C. sempervirens on artificial nutrient medium was studied, and tissue culture was derived from the generative cell of C. benthamii on a modified White's medium. As a result of differences between the artificial nutrient medium and natural conditions, various anomalies were observed in germination of the pollen. Some of these differences may have phylogenetic significance.
10.2307/2482193|Eleven strains of yeasts belonging to the genus Saccharomyces were investigated for their vitamin requirements. Two were autotrophic and nine heterotrophic. Most strains of S. cerevisiae required biotin and pantothenic acid for growth and strains of S. carlsbergensis required pyridoxine. One S. carlsbergensis strain was heterozygous for methionine synthesis. Synthesis of methionine and of pyridoxine were found to be dominant over non-synthesis. Two pantothenic acid deficient yeast strains, one being S. cerevisiae and the other S. carlsbergensis, could not synthesise -alanine but the hybrid between the two could do so. It has been concluded therefore that the two strains lack two different genes controlling the synthesis of -alanine.
10.2307/2997051|A detailed study of the floral morphology and anatomy of sixspecies comprising both genera of the small dicotyledonous family Caryocaraceae is presented. Important and previously unreported differences between the two genera are: ovules bitegmic in Caryocar, ovules unitegmic in Anthodiscus; styles simple in Caryocar; styles compound in Anthodiscus; and major variation in floral vascularization including the more extensive fusion of major traces in Anthodiscus. Stamen fascicle traces are reported for the first-time in the family, and in combination with other features, clearly link the family to the Theales. Comparisons are made between the multicarpellate, synovarial gynoecium and fruit of the Caryocaraceae and similar organs of the monotypic family Medusagynaceae. The high number (15+) of stamen fascicle traces per flower is interpreted as probably the result of advanced stamen proliferation. Gynoecia are richly vascularized by a complex network of wall veins, although distinct dorsal, or median, carpellary bundles are absent. Small prismatic crystals and large deposits of resin-like material are widely distributed throughout all floral parts. Original observations are presented on the unique, enlarged stamen filament epidermal cells or vesicles. It is shown by SEM that these cells have numerous, membrane-covered wall perforations, and it is suggested that the cells function in the rapid release and uptake of water during filament erection and subsequent anther dehiscence.
10.2307/2995932|Pedicularis densiflora in California was found to be animal pollinator dependent. Younger flowers with short corolla tubes were pollinated by short-tongued Bombus edwardsii workers foraging primarily for nectar, while older flowers with deep tubes were pollinated by nectar-foraging Anna and rufous hummingbirds. Scarlet corollas apparently attract birds, while magenta calyces and floral bracts with highly ultraviolet reflective hairs attract bumblebees. Nectar concentration (sucrose equivalents) varied from 15.0 to 24.5%; only fructose and sucrose were present. Cinematographic and stereophotographic records indicated that the flowers are pollinated only nototribically by birds and insects. Of 83 corbicular pollen loads from 193 B. edwardsii worker pollinators, 55% contained P. densiflora pollen, and 60% contained pollen of Dodecatheon hendersonii, suggesting that these two plants share pollinators by synchronously supplying complementary resources in the same plant community. The earlier blooming Arctostaphylos did not effectively deflect Bombus pollinators from P. densiflora, but observations on a community including synchronously blooming Arctostaphylos and P.d. aurantiaca, a subspecies with variably colored flowers, indicated that Arctostaphylos preferentially attracted Bombus pollinators with hummingbirds exclusively pollinating P.d. aurantiaca. Pedicularis densiflora is considered a species in transition between two pollination syndromes, influenced by the biotic and physical circumstances of the environment.
10.2307/2482046|1. Candida albicans Y-475 required, for maximum growth, the addition of 0.005 g./ml. of biotin, 0.1 g./ml. of thiamin, and 20.0  g./ml of methionine to a chemically defined medium. Glucose at a concentration of 20.0 g./l. was sufficient for the maximum growth of this organism. 2. Mycoderma vini Y-939 required the addition of biotin at a concentration of 0.005 g./ml. and cystine at a concentration of 0.4 mg./ml. to a chemically defined medium for maximum growth. Fifty grams per liter of glucose were required for the best growth of this organism.
10.2307/2484919|A study of the rare, endemic Pedicularis furbishiae S. Wats. in the St. John River Valley of northern Maine indicated a preference of the plant for calcareous, well-drained sandy loam of transient river terrace habitats in close, consistent association with Alnus crispa but no root parasitism with any host plants. It was found to be self-incompatible and obligately pollinated by workers of Bombus vagans, which were coadapted to the pollination mechanism morphologically and behaviorally. Pedicularis furbishiae was observed to reproduce by seed only and in sufficient numbers to maintain and possibly increase the size of the presently known total population of approximately 600 plants. Pollination interrelationships with Epilobium angustifolium, Trifolium pratense, Vicia cracca, and other Bombus-pollinated members of the Pedicularis plant community were also examined. Bumblebees were only 25% constant in their foraging for pollen. Techniques employed included chemical and physical soil analyses, atmospheric measurements, insect exclosure and artificial pollination, nectar analysis by refractometry, reflectance spectrophotometry of corolla color, microscopic analysis of corbicular pollen loads, measurement of corresponding insect and floral dimensions, cinematographic analysis and recording of pollinator behavior, and quadrat analysis of Pedicularis distribution
10.2307/2484463|There are two main natural groups of tuberous Aconitum within the United States (excluding Alaska). Aconitum columbianum ("western" Aconitum) is a polymorphic complex of populations occurring primarily in the western U.S. which exhibits extreme interpopulation variation in floral morphology and in modes of adaptation for vegetative reproduction. Aconitum uncinatum ("eastern" Aconitum) is a more homogeneous group of populations occurring primarily in the mountains of the eastern U.S. The most distinctive difference between these aconites is in tuber morphology. Aconitum columbianum has contiguous parent and daughter tubers whereas A. uncinatum has tubers separated by elongate connectives. These two species differ also in leaf morphology and taste of the tubers. Aconitum populations of Iowa and Wisconsin were previously treated as A. noveboracense or as a subspecies of A. uncinatum, but they are morphologically similar in tuber morphology and in other respects to non-bulbiferous races of western Aconitum with small flowers and shallow nectaries, indicating that they are actually disjunct populations of A. columbianum. The affinities of Aconitum of Ohio and New York and the status of the names A. noveboracense and A. uncinatum subsp, noveboracense cannot be resolved until populations are relocated in these states.
10.2307/2484266|-carotene, -carotene-5,6-epxoide, lutein, and lutein-5,6-epoxide were identified as the major flower petal carotenoids in Liriodendron and Magnolia species and hybrids.
10.2307/2996212|A 0 48 ha permanent plot located in a mesic Pinus strobus dominated forest was remapped after 26 years Pinus remained the dominant species in basal area and had the lowest mortality rate of any major tree species The understory was dominated by Acer saccharum, Tilia americana, and Ostrya virginiana, all of which had high mortality rates Establishment of numerous new stems resulted in a net gain in Ostrya and Tilia density whereas Acer declined substantially Populations of the shade intolerant Populus tremuloides, P grandidentata, and Betula papyrifera, which appear to have become established following mild surface fires in the late 1800's, all had high mortality The short-term prognosis is a stable Pinus strobus canopy, loss of Populus and Betula, and a steady emichment of the understory with Ostrya and Tilia Acer should remain important but continue to decline in relative density The long-term outlook is uncertain owing to the increasing probability of catastrophic breakup of the pine canopy
10.2307/2482614|Sugars that supported the best growth of Erysiphe cichoracearum on epidermal strippings from lettuce leaves were D)-fructose, D-glucose, D-mannose, and sucrose. L-sorbose was inhibitory. The cyclic hexahydric alcohol, i-inositol, was stimulatory whereas the straight-chain hexahydric alcohols, D-mannitol and D-sorbitol, were inhibitory. Mildew growth was completely inhibited when the initial molar ratio of D-mannitol to D-glucose was about 2:1 but inhibition was reversed when the ratio of these substances was reversed. The results suggest that D-mannitol, D-sorbitol, and L-sorbose support poor mildew growth because they inhibit some metabolic step in the host and/or pathogen rather than act solely as poorly utilized substrates.
10.2307/2996348|A field examination of Ilex opaca (American Holly) leaf types, characterized by differing leaf size and spine number was conducted in various locations in the eastern United States to examine the possible adaptive function of the rigid spines found on these leaves. If spines function as aids to convective cooling, one might expect greater numbers on sun leaves. It was found, however, that sun leaves had fewer spines than shade leaves and were smaller. More spines were found in southern areas (Nags Head, N.C., Accomac, Va.) than northern areas (Sandy Hook, N.J., Cape Cod, Mass.). Rates of herbivory were higher in southern locations. Herbivores preferred leaves with fewer spines. These results support the hypothesis that the major function of spines is deterrence of herbivory, rather than assisting in convective cooling.
10.2307/2483368|A new cytological effect was induced in Allium sativum meristematic cells using digitonin as a mitotic agent. Digitonin, a saponin with steroid structure, dissociates the formation and function of the spindle from the phragmoplast, suppressing the former organelle, whereas a vigorous functioning phragmoplast is formed in the dividing cells. The restituting nucleus usually surrounds this hyaline-like phragmoplast substance partially or completely. Thus, hollowed out or indented nuclei are formed which always remain associated with the hyaline substance. Subsequently, cell wall material appears in the hyaline substance. It usually develops into a richly branched system and some of the branches join to the original cell wall. However, in some cases it may gather on the indented surface of the nucleus as an amorphous body. In 46 cases, cells were found with a functional spindle. In the same cells, a second, hyaline-like phragmoplast system was detected, usually associated with one of the groups of chromatids. In this substance, again, cell wall material was found. The relationship between spindle and phragmoplast, and the problem of the nuclear-phragmoplast association is discussed.
10.2307/2483990|The transition to 2-D growth was delayed by cycloheximide; the lag period was extended and the rate of transition reduced. Increasing inhibitor concentrations also diminished the mitotic rates for 1-D and 2-D gametophytes. All three rates were inhibited to a comparable extent. The mean cell number was not affected by the inhibitor. It was therefore concluded that the effect on 2-D development was due to an inhibition of cell division and not to a specific inhibition of the transition to 2-D growth.
10.2307/2483009|Suspected hybrids of Agropyron trachycaulum (Link) Malte and Agropyron scribneri Vasey were found at several alpine sites on the Wasatch Plateau near Ephraim, Utah. Cytological, morphological, and fertility observations confirmed the suggestion that these plants were natural interspecific hybrids of A. trachycaulum and A. scribneri. Meiotic chromosome behavior of the putative parent species was consistent with the hypothesis that these species are strict allotetraploids, 2n-28. Chormosome pairing in the hybrids indicated a close relationship between A. trachycaulum and A. scribneri genomes, whose major differences consist of structural rearrangements of the component chromosomes. A. trachycaulum and A. scribneri were represented by genome formulae of AABB and A
10.2307/2996662|American beech (Fagus grandifolia, Ehrh.) is the most shade tolerant of the canopy dominant tree species in the northern hardwood forest at Hubbard Brook, New Hampshire. Nevertheless, subcanopy beech trees responded significantly to small canopy gaps (28-103 m
10.2307/2996321|Openings in the pitch pine (Pinus rigida Mill.) forests of southernNew Jersey may persist for decades. In rive such openings, ranging in size from 22 to 223 m
10.2307/2484608|Several measures of plant community structure and function were studied in the four main stages of old-field succession in Oklahoma. The absolute amount of live plant material was high in the early successional stage, diminished in the second stage, and reached a maximum in the terminal stage. Net annual production, as estimated by the summation of species' peaks, and seasonal productivity rates demonstrated a similar pattern. The live component of the above-ground vegetation constituted 51% of the total standing crop in the early stages but amounted to 26% in the last stage with a consequent increase in the proportion of litter. Aerial cover, species richness, and concentration of dominance tended to increase in this sere, while species diversity and equitability tended to decrease.
10.2307/2996162|Common milkweed occurs in the Piedmont of north-central Georgia. This population is disjunct over 150 km from the nearest known sites in North Carolina and Tennessee. Certain weedy characteristics, such as self-compatibility, numerous seeds, and gemmiferous roots, may enable A syriaca L. to extend its range.
10.2307/2997011|Oak-dominated forests in the mid-Appalachians of the eastern United States and the Kumaun Himalaya of northern India are described and compared. Four major community types are recognized in each region; these are related to the environmental complex-gradients associated with differences in elevation and topographic position. In general, both species richness and species diversity of the tree stratum (stems  10 cm DBH) are appreciably higher for oak forests in the mid-Appalachians, whereas basal area and density tend to be much higher for oak forests in the Kumaun Himalaya. In both regions, oak-dominated forests have been subject to considerable disturbance, with human disturbance representing the single most important factor in northern India and introduced biotic agents the most important factors in the eastern United States.
10.2307/2996742|Morphological features of the hay-scented fern Dennstaedtia punctilobula. (Michx.) Moore from discrete patches of average area 23.0  8.7 m
10.2307/2996540|Studies on the seed germination ecophysiology of Cimicifuga racemosa (L.) Nutt and Hepatica acutiloba DC revealed that both species have epicotyl dormancy Radicles of seeds sown on soil in a nonheated greenhouse emerged in autumn, but emergence of cotyledons was delayed until late winter and early spring Radicles of H acutiloba seeds, incubated sequentially at simulated monthly temperature regimes, emerged in November and early December, but cotyledons did not emerge until February and March After 165 days, radicles had emerged from 79% of the H acutiloba seeds incubated at 20/10 C, whereas cotyledons had not emerged after 245 days Cotyledons did not emerge from seeds (with radicles emerged) of either species kept over winter in a heated greenhouse Thus, chilling is required to break epicotyl dormancy These two species can be added to the list of more than 20 species of herbaceous perennials of the Eastern Deciduous Forest Biome whose seeds exhibit deep morpho-physiological dormancy
10.2307/2483523|Three rare barley diseases were discovered for the first time in Israel:-downy mildew caused by Sclerophthora rayssiae sp. nov., leaf smut incited by Entyloma Korshinskyi Lavrov, and checkerboard spot and leaf flecking associated with Ovularia hordei (Cav.) Sprague. The downy mildew has reached the proportions of a serious disease during the winter growing season of 1962.
10.2307/2996544|Seasonal changes in numbers and weights were determined for three categories of shoots aboveground and root and rhizome weights belowground. Total shoot numbers were over 1000/m
10.2307/2996842|Analysis of the mass and morphology of opaline phytoliths extracted from soils was used to test the hypothesis that the 1-ha calcareous clay lens of Buffalo Beats had a vegetative history different from that of the surrounding acid shale substrate. The mass of opal from the 0- to 10-cm depth under prairie and transitional vegetation on the lens was approximately three times greater than from the same depth under the surrounding forest. Phytoliths diagnostic of grasses were seldom encountered in any soils. Early descriptions of forb-dominated communities on calcareous lenses in other parts of the region and the present high coverage by forbs on Buffalo Beats along with high phytolith concentrations in the foliage of some of these forb species, suggest the possibility that forbs rather than grasses may have dominated this opening over some portion of the post-glacial period.
10.2307/2483058|1. Choanephora persicaria Eddy has been rediscovered and studied from the type material as well as from a number of strains isolated from soil, sewage, peaches, and mulberries. 2. The zygosporic stage has now been found and its development proves conclusively that this fungus represents a new genus, Gilbertella. This genus is heterothallic, possessing a Mucor-like sexual stage and a Choanephora-like asexual stage. From a study of the life cycle it is concluded that Gilbertella is a form intermediate between the Mucoraceae and Choanephoraceae. 3. When + and - strains are brought together, they can produce zygospores in liquid media and form beta-carotene. 4. Gilbertella can cause a brown, firm type of rot in peaches with abundant sporulation over the surface of the fruit.
10.2307/2996758|Twenty Penstemon eatonii seed collections from a range of habitats were subjected to laboratory chill treatments of 0 to 24 weeks. Germination response during and after chill was correlated with collection site climate. Seeds from sites with colder winters had longer chill requirements and were slower to germinate in continuous chill than seeds from sites with warmer winters. Seeds from variable-winter sites tended to have a large fraction not responsive to chill. Such site-specific responses may function to time germination appropriately and also to provide for between-year seed carry-over in this short-lived perennial species. Field retrieval studies supported these conclusions.
10.2307/2997106|Interspecific competition between Bouteloua curtipendula (Michx.) Torr. (sideoats grama) and Prosopis glandulosa var. glandulosa Torr. (honey mesquite) seedlings was examined in an additive and a replacement experiment, at two resource levels. Bouteloua curtipendula significantly reduced P. glandulosa seedling growth, at every grass density tested. In addition, the growth of B. curtipendula was consistently favored over P. glandulosa, regardless of the proportion of the two species or the soil resource level. Higher nutrient levels increased the total biomass and increased the percent B. curtipendula biomass per pot. Prosopis glandulosa total biomass was highest when grown without B. curtipendula and increased with added nutrients but only in monoculture. Results suggest that intraspecific, rather than interspecific competition, has a greater effect on B. curtipendula growth. However, interspecific competition, rather than intraspecific competition, has a greater effect on P. glandulosa growth. In addition, P. glandulosa seedling establishment and growth in productive B. curtipendula grasslands would probably be severely limited, especially at high levels of soil resources.
10.2307/2482017|1. Vitamin B
10.2307/2482952|1. The dome-shaped shoot apex of Dianthus caryophyllus L. consists of a two-layered tunica and a corpus. The outer portion of the corpus shows considerable stratification especially when the apex is at minimum volume. No other zonation is apparent. 2. During a plastochrone the apex passes from a maximum, gradually to a minimum and back to a maximum volume. 3. Procambium can be traced to the base of a putative leaf primordium. 4. Apical growth in the leaf ceases by the time a height of 2 mm. is reached. 5. Submarginal activity begins when the leaf is approximately 90  high. Plate meristem activity begins when the leaf is about 190  high and during the basal maturation of the tissues is confined to the leaf base much as the basal meristem of grass leaves. 6. Stomatal development is described. There are no accessory cells. 7. Initial phloem differentiation is acropetal; differentiation of the first xylem elements in a midtrace is bidirectional from near the base of the third leaf. Subsequent maturation of vascular elements is bidirectional or basipetal. Two phloem strands differentiate toward a given leaf. These outline the leaf-branch gap of the leaf two plastochrons below before converging into a single strand which enters the leaf. 8. Axillary buds are arranged in a 1/4 cladotaxis, their initiation and development is described. An hypothesis is suggested which may help in accounting for their arrangement.
10.2307/2482563|Three new chestnut hybrids are described which are to serve as the ortets of their respective clones: (1) Toumey Chestnut, a tall, erect tree, rapid-growing but not especially prolific; leaves with prominent shoulder below each tooth, pubescence both stellate and simple; bur slightly flattened, nut plump, squarish, flavor indifferent; (2) Hamden Chestnut, a handsome, ornamental, spreading, late-flowering tree with large, thickish, glossy leaves, and a moderate supply of large nuts; (3) Dwarf Japanese-American Chest-nut, a dwarf, male-sterile tree suitable for a small area, a prolific bearer, with leaves showing lepidote glands beneath, nuts fairly sweet. These trees are all blight-resistant, and hardy in zone V of Rehder.
10.2307/2483717|The seven species described in the genus Thiloa are reduced to three. These three species are distinct on morphological, anatomical and distributional criteria, and any difficulties in identification are apparently due to poor or incomplete material and the minute nature of the most diagnostic characters, since no real taxonomic problems have been found. The study was based on the material in 25 major herbaria, including the type specimens of all taxa.
10.2307/2996229|Field observations and experiments in central Florida determined phenology, pollination, breeding system, and crossability of Asimina obovata (Willd.) Nash and A. pygmaea (Bartr.) Dunal. Both species are strongly protogynous and similar in floral morphology, but differ in color and scent. Their flowering periods overlap, but flowering in A. obovata begins at least two weeks before that of A. pygmaea. Pollinators include large beetles, Trichotinus rufobrunneus, T. lunulatus and Euphoria sepulchralis (Scarabaeidae), which are common to both plant species, and Typocerus zebra (Cerambycidae), which is limited to A. obovata. The beetles prefer flowers in the male phase and consume pollen and corrugated tissue of the inner petals. This tissue is high in carbohydrates with lesser amounts of lipids and proteins. Bagged flowers of A. obovata occasionally self-pollinate (4% in 1981) but no selfing occurred in A. pygmaea. In open-pollinated flowers of A. obovata, 16% set fruits in 1981 and 5.5% in 1982, while 32% set fruits in hand-pollinated flowers. Open-pollinated flowers of A. pygmaea yielded fruit-set of 8% in 1981, 8.2% in 1982, and 60% when hand-pollinated. Reciprocal crosses between the two taxa produced fruits in 16% of flowers when A. obovata was the seed parent and 30% when it was the pollen parent.
10.2307/2482301|1. Seeds of Pisum sativum were treated with 10, 50, 100, 300, 500, and 1000 ppm solutions of maleic hydrazide and observations were made to determine the effects of MH on cell division and on total growth. 2. Inhibition of growth was apparent in treatments of and above 100 ppm. MH, and inhibition of cell division was noted in the 50 ppm. group as well as in the higher concentrations. 3. Based on the percentage mitosis in the treated plants, there was a greater percentage of mitosis in the shoot tips than the root tips. 4 Certain effects of the higher concentrations of MH on cellular structure are discussed.
10.2307/2484895|Ordination and classification techniques were used to determine the pattern of species, stands, and community-types in the north central bottomland forests of Oklahoma. A polar-reciprocal averaging ordination (PORA) indicated an east to west stand compositional gradient existed in this region. Also along this gradient, species diversity and evenness decreased from east to west. Cluster analysis and discriminant functions analysis were used to classify the stands into 5 community-types. A plot of these community-types on the PO-RA ordination indicated that the community-types also showed an east to west gradient. It was hypothesized that this compositional gradient results from the elimination of floodplain species from western counties due to a decrease in available soil moisture from precipitation.
10.2307/2996194|Fruit production and seed germination were studied in one population of Phytolacca americana L. (pokeweed) in the Hutcheson Memorial Forest, New Jersey. Number of fruits per raceme, fruit weight, seed weight, and number of seeds per fruit showed little variation in this population (CV's range: 8-18.8%). Fruit set was 100% for marked racemes, suggesting a high degree of selfing. The number of racemes per individual stem varied from zero on plants less than 40 cm tall to 13 on 2 m tall plants. Plants bearing one raceme or none (<1 m tall) constituted 60% of the population. Germination of unstratified seeds was high (average of 80%), but varied greatly both within (0-100%) as well as between (25-100%) plants.
10.2307/2996623|Leaf leachate of Mangifera indica, Shorea robusta and Tectona grandis promoted the sprouting of rhizomes and young plant growth of Costus speciosus while that of Eucalyptus globulus showed distinct inhibition. Promotive treatments decreased the sprouting time also. The maximum growth promotion was noted with four times diluted leachate of M. indica but inhibition was greatest with undiluted leachate of E. globulus. The diosgenin concentration in rhizomes of Costus speciosus was increased by the leaf leachate of Mangifera indica, with no change due to leaf leachates of Shorea robusta and Tectona grandis. The leaf leachate of Eucalyptus globulus decreased the concentration of diosgenin.
10.2307/2483272|The leaf primordia of R. flabellaris have the genetic competence to develop in either an expanded or a dissected form, depending upon the environment. In both forms, branching of the leaf primordium early in the second plastochron produces the three major segments of the tripartite blade. Subsidiary lobes arise in acropetal sequence on these segments with the initiation of cell division at alternate sites along each segment and its inhibition in the putative sinus regions. Production of lobes at a greater rate in the submerged shoot, continued division in these elevating lobes, and inhibition along their margins accounts for the characteristic dissected form. Form is regulated primarily through control of cell division in the leaf primordium, and the environmental influence is apparently exerted here. That the environmental stimulus is effective during development of the leaf is apparent in the production of intermediate leaf forms from primordia present in the bud when shoots are transferred to an opposite environment. A comparison of shoot apices of terrestrial and submerged plants reveals no difference in size or organization during the development of diverse leaf forms. In addition to the terrestrial or submerged environments, temperature and photoperiod affect leaf form. Limited experiments failed to reveal translocation of a form determining factor from older leaves. It is our interpretation that the shape of the leaf in this heterophyllic aquatic may be affected by any of several environmental stimuli acting directly upon the distribution and frequency of cell division in the primordium so that the inherent zones of growth initiated on the primorduim are modified in their development. The seasonal variation in leaf form in R. flabellaris may be explained in terms of interplay of these environmental factors.
10.2307/2996119|Morphological and chemical (phenolic) variables were used in principal components and cluster analyses to determine patterns of variation among and within 22 wide-ranging populations of dandelions. Intrapopulational morphological variation was as great as or greater than interpopulational variation. Morphological variables were poorly correlated, and plants failed to cluster into the two described species, Taraxacum officinale and T. laevigatum. Phenolic distinctions existed among populations but not between species-types, and chemical variables did not correlate with morphological variables. The data, therefore, suggest that morphological variation is largely due to phenotypic plasticity. This conclusion was supported by the observation of a strong relationship between microhabitat and morphological phenotype, with characteristics of T. laevigatum being expressed under conditions of environmental stress. The pattern of phenolic variability reflects the existence of chemical biotypes.
10.2307/2484155|Hydroxyproline-containing proteins appear to be ubiquitous constituents of photosynthetic land plants and their presumed algal ancestors. Different "species" of hydroxyproline-proteins, distinguishable by their composition and/or location within the cells and tissues, probably function differently. At least one of these species, which becomes intimately associated with cell walls, evidently has a morphoregulatory function. The results of a series of experiments conducted with representatives of several families of leafy liverworts, coupled with information gleaned from the literature dealing with hydroxyproline-protein function in other plants, has led to a new hypothesis concerning the morphoregulatory role of cell wall-associated hydroxyproline-proteins: These proteins may regulate morphogenesis by suppressing the further development (enlargement and/or division) of highly localized populations of cells. The hypothesis attempts to explain experimentally-induced differences in the developmental behavior of cells correlated with differences in patterns of organogenesis and/or differences in hydroxyproline and protein compositions of cell walls. This hypothesis, should it prove to be correct, provides a simple mechanism for explaining and understanding a great many differences in plant form.
10.2307/2996940|Self-fertility was examined in a Canada yew (Taxus canadensis) population in southeastern Minnesota. Bagged yew branches and unbagged control branches showed no significant differences in seed production, proportion of pollinated seeds that matured, or seed masses. Greater than 99% of male strobili were located on current growth, but a significant proportion of female strobili (>33%) were located on growth two years or older. There was no consistent trend in location of these strobilus types on higher or lower branches. Results from other studies examining consequences of monoecy in Canada yew support the conclusions of this study that Canada yew is self-fertile and that self-pollination enhances seed production when pollen is limiting.
10.2307/2996046|Five species of fungi belonging to various classes were surveyed for their response to the calcium ionophore A23187. Hyphae were treated with ionophore from 10-45 min, with treatment time varying depending upon the sensitivity of the species. After treatment, hyphae of all species branched more than untreated controls. Of particular interest was the reaction of uredospores of Puccinia graminis f. sp. tritici. Under the experimental conditions reported here, the untreated germinating uredospores of strain TNMK produced a cylindrical germ tube that was not observed to branch. Ionophore treatment overcame this pattern, initiating apical branching. Calcium is implicated as a messenger in the control of morphological patterns in fungi.
10.2307/2483167|1. Seedlings of soybean, Glycine max (L.) Merrill were used for these experiments. Certain morphological abnormalities were caused by application of a very high concentration of 2, 4, 5-T. After treatment, the seedlings showed: enlargement of the cotyledons; retardation in elongation and increase in diameter of the hypocotyl and primary root. 2. Histologically, the earliest response was increasing cell division in the hypocotyl region in the pericycle and pith. Later, the proliferation frequently extended from pith to the inner cortical parenchyma. The pith cells of the hypocotyl region became very actively meristematic. In the root, the cells of the pericycle, endodermis, and inner cortex showed divisions. Pericycle cells were especially active, producing a meristematic zone. 3. Some of the mitochondria appeared swollen and the inner membranes pulled apart. The deformation of mitochondria had taken place within 3 days after treatment.
10.2307/2481913|The cells of the boundary tissue between cortex and stele, between the bundle and surrounding parenchyma, have several anatomical forms. The typical endodermis may have Casparian strips, U-shaped unilateral walls, suberized walls or a combination of these. In some parts of the plant, however, particularly in the aerial stems and leaves, the cells in the parenchymalvascular boundary do not have the accepted anatomical characteristics associated with the endodermis. These cells of the vascular or bundle sheath, lacking endodermal characteristics, have been generally recognized as the "border parenchyma", and as the "mestome sheath". It was found that all of these cell types contain substances which give histochemical reactions like those obtained in the endodermis, and that these cells may develop, or be induced to develop, like the typical endodermis. All of the cell types in the parenchymal-vascular boundary of root, stem or leaf react in a characteristically similar way with fat stains, polychrome and basic dyes, aldehyde indicators, and oxidation-reduction indicators. The border parenchyma cell in leaves was found to differentiate and/or dedifferentiate as a typical endodermis under conditions of etiolation. A sequence of change was observed in border parenchyma cells, from the normal to the etiolated condition, as follows: starch hydrolysis, conversion of neutral fats in the plasma to free fatty acids, a change from a condition of reduction to one of oxidation, a gradual deposition of aldehydes and fats in the cell wall and concomitantly the disappearance of fats from the plasma. Glucosidase was found to be localized in the typical endodermis and also in the undifferentiated border parenchyma of the same plants. The parenchymal-vascular sheath in the moss gametophyte stem gave the reactions for an endodermis.
10.2307/2996729|The vegetative body of Ombrophytum subterraneum is an irregularly spherical structure, called a tuber, consisting of two portions: one composed of host cells, the other of O. subterraneum cells. All O. subterraneum nuclei are much larger than those of the host, and the vessels have distinctive secondary wall ingrowths, thus each tuber cell can be identified as belonging to either host or parasite. Infection by O. subterraneum causes host root cells to proliferate outward, forming a structure that initially resembles a lateral root, having a central mass of xylem surrounded by phloem, but differing from the host's normal root tissues in having narrow vessels and few or no fibers. The O. subterraneum portion of the tuber consists of a mass (up to 933 grams fr. wt.) of starch-filled parenchyma penetrated by vascular bundles containing both xylem and phloem. All cells in the O. subterraneum portion of the tuber are O. subterraneum cells-host cells were not mixed with parasite cells and there are no chimeral meristems as reported for Balanophora. The interface between host and parasite is sinuous but generally smooth, not a mixture of host and parasite cells. The tuber has no apical meristem; no leaves or axillary buds; no eustele; no epidermis. It produces long (up to 20 cm), slender (4 mm diam) runners that have an apical meristem with no root cap; no leaf primordia; a protoderm and epidermis but no stomata, no trichomes and no root hairs. In some places the runners' stele is rootlike (a protostele), in other places it is stemlike (with pith and collateral bundles).
10.2307/2484104|Boxelder, a wide ranging tree species, has been primarily used for shelterbelt plantings. Now, because of its excellent fiberboard properties, early fast growth, sprouting ability, and broad adaptability, it should be considered as a potential commercial wood fiber source. Boxelder has short average fibers and vessel members (646 m and 331 m, respectively). Other fibers commonly used for fiberboard range in length from 1040 m (Populus tremuloides) to 5400 m (Pinus taeda) and vessel member lengths from 490 m (Quercus rubra) to 670 m (Populus grandidentata). Although, compared to these species, its fibers appear short, boxelder is still considered of commercial use, because its wood and pulp have a relatively high pH that is conducive to an enhancement of resin curing and fiber bonding.
10.2307/2481959|1. Gross aspects of the floral development in both irradiated and non-irradiated plants of Tradescantia paludosa are described 2. The normal inflorescence is an umbellate cyme and the individual flowers are pentacyclic in a plan of three following the description of Anderson and Woodson (1935) 3. Variability in flowering and abnormal development of flower parts was noted in about 8 per cent of the inflorescences on non-irradiated plants, particularly in those making poor vegetative growth. 4. Plants exposed to chronic gamma irradiation from cobalt-
10.2307/2560356|The importance of Barbarea vulgaris R B1, Setaria viridis (L) Beauv. (+ S faberii Herrm.) and Ambrosia artemisiifolia L., the most abundant species in fields the first year after abandonment in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, is strongly influenced by the time of year bare soil is present in relation to the time that seeds of these species are capable of germinating. Certain agricultural practices, including the use of herbicides, tend to segregate these species into different fields. Aster pilosus Willd. is the distinct dominant in second-year fields and continues in some importance for three or four years. As A. pilosus decreases in abundance, there is a great increase of Lonicera japonica Thunb., Rubus spp, Rhus typhina L., Prunus serotina Ehrh. and Solidago nemoralis Ait. A. pilosus is largely eliminated in about four years. Abandoned fields and pastures are usually occupied by a closed canopy of hardwood species in less than 20 years after abandonment.
10.2307/2483112|1. Two different types of extra-ovular development of eggs and embryos in grasses are reported in two species of South African grasses. 2. In one pistil of Digitaria valida the part of the embryo sac containing the egg apparatus had grown nearly through the ovary wall (fig. 1). 3. In a number of pistils of Fingerhuthia africana the embryo sac had grown out of the ovule into the ovarian locule where a cavity was formed containing most of the embryo sac (fig. 6). Further development progressed at least as far as the early endosperm and proembryo stage (fig. 6). 4. In grasses, at least, there seems to be nothing to prevent such extra-ovular development from leading to mature and nearly normal grains.
10.2307/2996040|Most populations of the Western Australian cycad Macrozamia riedlei that were sampled for individuals with cones were characterized by an excess of male plants (66%-79%). Less than 32% of the apparently mature plants produced cones in most populations examined. It is suggested that the deficiency of females in cone is a consequence of the greater energetic effort required to produce female cones as compared to male cones. As a result of these differences in energetic costs, sexually mature female plants probably produce cones less frequently than do male plants. The high energetic costs of cone production may not only influence the sex ratio, but they may also account for the low frequency of reproductive individuals of either sex. The depletion of starch reserves associated with cone production requires several years for restoration, during which time cones are not produced. Age structure may also affect the incidence of non-coning individuals, but in most populations sampled most individuals were judged to be mature, and immature individuals were omitted from sampling. The role of fire in the reproductive ecology of M. riedlei has been considered by some authors to stimulate cone production, but there is evidence that under certain circumstances cone production is inhibited by fire.
10.2307/2997105|The objectives of the research were to examine some of the factors limiting fruit and seed production in a population of Cassia nictitans at the northern limit of the species' distribution. Experiments conducted in a greenhouse showed that plants were self-compatible and self-pollinating. About half of the unmanipulated flowers produced mature fruits, and self- and hand cross-pollinations resulted in similar levels of fruit production. However, fruits from hand pollinations contained more seeds than those from unmanipulated flowers. In the field, 37% of the initiated fruits aborted; these were primarily those initiated late in the flowering period. Field experiments showed that when competition among fruits for maternal resources was reduced by removing early-developing fruits, late-initiated fruits, which normally aborted, matured. Random removal of developing fruits resulted in increased seed production per fruit, indicating that seed abortion, like fruit abortion, is a consequence of competition among developing reproductive sinks. Predispersal seed predation was absent in the population. Thus, seed production in this population appears to be limited primarily by resources.
10.2307/2482500|1. Nectar secretion by snapdragon buds floated upon a sugar medium was inhibited by the presence in the medium of substances of known antimetabolic activity. Other agents, though some had definite effects upon bud development, did not affect nectar secretion. 2. Three compounds, pyruvic acid, ethyl carbamate, and sodium azide, were found to inhibit sugar concentration of the nectar with a correspondence to their concentration in the medium. 3. These data support the thesis that nectar secretion in isolated flowers is a function of the active metabolism of the nectary.
10.2307/2484692|A survey of elm leaf flavonoids indicates that the major compounds are glycosides of quercetin. Quercetin 3, 7-diglucoside is found only in U. laevis, and the presence of this substance is sufficient to distinguish the European white elm from the morphologically similar American elm (U. americana). The distribution of other compounds loosely follows the accepted taxonomic classification in the genus. Verification of artificial and natural interspecific hybrids, in many combinations, can be achieved by flavonoid analysis.
10.2307/2483313|Six species of resupinate hydnaceous Hymenomycetes previously unreported from western North America are treated. Caldesiella calcicola, Odontia romellii, and Hyphodontia abieticola are recorded from North America for the first time, and H. floccosa, O. pruni, and Radulum pini-canadensis are new records from the West. Complete descriptions and data on distribution and substratum relationships are given. Odontia subabrupta Bourd & Galz. is placed in synonymy with R. pini-canadensis.
10.2307/2483569|Thirteen distinct aecial states of Cronartium (Uredinales) are recognized on morphological grounds and their distinguishing characteristics are detailed. Two other fungi morphologically indistinguishable from Peridermium cerebrem are recognized as species on the basis of host symptoms (P. fusiforme) and life cycle (P. harknessii). P. himalayense and P. insulare are similar to one another, and both are included in the P. pint complex. P. mnexicanum, hitherto a synonym of P. cerebrum or recognized as separate, is not even racially distinct from P. conigenum. P. indicum, usually lumped with P. strobi, is distinct. P. cerebroides is at most a race of P. harknessii or of P. cerebrum; it is not reliably recognized by the form of its galls. The 15 recognized species fall into four morphological groups, one of them having only a single species. Scrophulariaceae provide telial (Cronartium) hosts for some members of all three large groups, whereas other telial host families are "shared" only within these groups. Another grouping of stem rust fungi is based on effects on pine hosts: two species mainly stimulate apical meristems; four mainly stimulate lateral meristems, and nine seldom or never stimulate host inertstems.
10.2307/2484847|Ants frequently visit the flowers of Asclepias curassavica, reducing the amount of nectar available to the butterflies that legitimately pollinate this species. Butterflies consequently visit more flowers but spend less time on each flower. Inflorescences from which ants were excluded experimentally showed higher levels of pollinia insertion. Nectar-robbing by ants therefore appears to be a maladaptive force resulting in reduced pollinator effectiveness for A. curassavica.
10.2307/2484759|Comparative disc electrophoresis of water-soluble seed proteins was employed in systematic studies of cultivated sorghum, Sorghum bicolor ssp. bicolor to (1) evaluate the potential usefulness of comparative electrophoresis of seed proteins for evolutionary and taxonomic investigations of sorghum, (2) assess affinities among the five races of S. bicolor ssp. bicolor by comparing their protein patterns, and (3) estimate the electrophoretic variability of seed proteins within selected races of cultivated sorghum. Twenty-six African cultivars of the five races, were studied. Each cultivar yielded highly reproducible electrophoretic patterns. Cultivars belonging to the same race produced identical or near-identical patterns. Consistent differences were detected among the races, enabling identification of the races by their electrophoretic patterns. The data suggest that the electrophoretic pattern of seed proteins of cultivated sorghum is a set of relatively constant, reliable taxonomic characters, representing the cultivar and possibly individual races.
10.2307/2483546|The prime questions of the study are what effect does opening size (or size of the area open to colonization) have in determining the species present in the openings and how does the existing undisturbed vegetation affect future stages in the succession? A cornfield left fallow following the last growing season was used for the study area. Openings ranging in size from .01m
10.2307/2482611|The growth rates and developmental morphology of immature barley embryos in vitro were studied by comparing them to embryos in vivo. In vitro embryos differed from those developing in vivo in that cultured embryos, (1) were larger at any given morphological stage (due to promoted cell enlargement and cell division), (2) were slower in the rate at which they passed through the various embryonic stages, (3) showed a number of morphological deviations from normal embryonic stages, and (4) did not attain the morphological development of stage 6 (fully differentiated mature embryo) in vivo.
10.2307/2996217|Modern pollen rain was studied at four different elevations on Slide Mountain, New York to (1) determine the relation between the pollen rain and the local vegetation, and (2) to increase the data base for modern pollen analogs used in comparing late Quaternary fossil pollen spectra Correlation between the modern pollen rain and the vegetation is variable, but some trends are noted Betula and Pinus were consistently overrepresented in the pollen rain, while Abies, Picea, and Acer were underrepresented Quercus and Fagus pollen compared well with the relative frequency of respective source trees at 1575 feet, but Quercus was overrepresented by its pollen at every other site; Fagus was only slightly overrepresented Despite the lack of precise matches between the local pollen rain and surrounding vegetation, the major components of the vegetation at each altitude are preserved in the pollen rain The local pollen spectra at the four different elevation sites on Slide Mountain compared favorably with fossil pollen spectra from subrecent sediments found at similar altitudes in the Berkshires of Massachusetts, the White Mountains of New Hampshire, and the Catskill Mountains of New York
10.2307/2483854|A new species of Cyrtolejeunea Evs, C. antillana, from Dominica is described. It differs from the type, C. holostipa, in the blunt lobular apex, and from C. inermis of Brazil in the larger, less collenchymatous cells; C. inermis and C. antillana are placed into a separate subgenus, Oryzolejeunea, perhaps allied to the monotypic Caribbean Amblyolejeunea Jov.-Ast. Acanthocoleus Schust., with A. fulvus sp. n., is described. It is allied to Lopholejeunea, from which it differs in the regular subfloral innovations; the convex but not convolute, feebly nitid leaves; the bidentate lobuli; the long-emergent, 5-keeled perianth; the edentate [female] bracts; and the clearly botryoidal oilbodies. Dactylolejeunea Schust., with only D. acanthifolia sp. n, is described. It differs from Drepanolejeunea in the underleaves with erect, nonsubulate lobes; the lack of ocelli; the lack of a differentiated, sharp, apical lobular tooth; the coarse, conspicuous cilia and laciniae of leaf and perianth keel margins. The affinities of Trachylejeunea (Spr.) Schiffn. are discussed and the close and unresolved relationships to Pycnolejeunea (Spr.) Schiffn. are discussed. A new species, T. monophthalma from Jamaica, is described that exhibits affinities to both genera. It differs from all Pycnolejeunea species in the tuberculate cells, but it has the large underleaves, rounded leaf lobes, and subfloral innovations of the acrogynous gynoecia of Pycnolejeunea. The genus Diplasiolejeunea (Spr.) Schiffn. is divided into three subgenera, Diplasiolejeunea (for ocellate taxa growing flatly appressed) and two non-ocellate subgenera, Physolejeunea Schust. (for a small, large-lobulate species of New Zealand, D. lyratifolia) and Austrolejeuneopsis Schust. (for a series of taxa which are larger, with smaller lobuli whose free margin is strongly involute). The type of this last subgenus, D. alata Jov.-Ast, is given a detailed treatment and illustrations. All new taxa are fully illustrated.
10.2307/2483545|Lamprothamnium succinctum var. australiensis n. var. is described and illustrated. The chromosome counts of n = 42 for this taxon and n = 28 for a L. macropogon growing with it were supplied by Arland T. Hotchkiss Lime-shells were discovered in the neotype specimen of L. succinctum and are described and illustrated for the first time.
10.2307/2484796|Achlya is a filamentous aquatic fungus in which the production of gametangia is initiated by two C-29 steroids which act to induce the formation of specialized branches on which the gametangia are differentiated. Antheridial branches are produced in response to antheridiol, and oogonial branches to hormone B Strains of Achlya vary in the amounts of these steroids that they secrete and in the concentrations to which they respond. Of sterile strains producing sex organs only when mated, those secreting considerable antheridiol but no hormone B and responding to hormone B but not to antheridiol, react as females with the production of oogonial branches. Those secreting little or no antheridiol but secreting hormone B only when stimulated by exogenous antheridiol and responding to antheridiol but not to hormone B, react as males with the production of antheridial branches when mated. Hermaphroditic strains producing numerous antheridia and oogonia may or may not secrete antheridiol and may secrete hormone B without stimulation by exogenous antheridiol. The strains tested were sensitive to both antheridiol and hormone B.
10.2307/2996971|Acer stigmas were said by Heslop-Harrison and Shivanna (Ann. Bot. 41: 1232-1258. 1977) to be dry and non-papillate, a statement supported by unillustrated observations on two unnamed species. We report here that the earlier literature, and our own observations on six species, show instead that Acer has a papillate stigma. Rudimentary pistils of staminate flowers, common in Acer, could result in erroneous observations of stigmas. Presence of papillate stigmas in Acer is consistent with the presence of papillate stigmas in closely related groups. Increase in papillae development allows increase in stigma surface area, thereby contributing to more efficient wind pollination, a mode which has evolved in a number of maple species.
10.2307/2483807|Disruption of any community is usually followed by the almost immediate appearance of earlier successional species. This has been related to the presence of buried viable seed. To test for the presence of viable seed, soil samples were collected at Harvard Forest at 16 sites, representative of secondary succession in Massachusetts. These ranged from a 1-yr abandoned field to an 80-yr white pine stand that supported an understory of young hardwoods. When soil samples were collected, a list was compiled of all ground cover species at each site. Fifty-five ground cover species were recorded at the 16 stations, and of these, 41 were restricted to open fields and young pine stands, and 14 to a mature 80-yr pine stand. There were no ground cover plants in any of the fully-stocked, 21 to 47-yr pine stands. Germination tests of soils from all sites produced quantities of seedlings. In these tests 65 species, averaging 20 species per station were recorded. The 3474 seedlings recovered represented an average of 220 per square foot of soil surface sampled, with a low of 116 and a high of 466. Many of the field species occurred in essentially all soils tested, and 40 of the 64 which appeared in field samples produced 88.5% of the total seedling crop. The field species thus prevailed and dominated all samples except those from the mature pine stand. With maturation and opening of the stands, late successional and climax species appeared. Both short-lived and long-lived seed were among the seedlings recovered. The latter group included Juncus tenuis, Panicum capillare, Rumex acetosella and Danthonia spicata. It is proposed that viable seed in the forest soils had not been carried into the stands where they then filtered down through the litter-humus layers, but that they remained viable during long burial in the soils. The universality of secondary succession is assured by long term storage of seed in soils.
10.2307/2484832|Stands of Pinus taeda established on old fields grow rapidly in eastern Maryland, but hardwoods soon invade and are already numerous and noticeable at 16 years from field and by 35 years they form a conspicuous second story. Data on changes in composition in one stand show the strong successional trend to hardwoods. Three light winter fires (when the stand was 16, 21, and 25 years old) so reduced the number of hardwoods that, 10 years after the third burn, there were fewer hardwoods  1.4 cm dbh than before burning; but even more fires or other alternative measures have to be used if pine stands are to be reproduced.
10.2307/2996776|Abiotic resources in a deciduous forest often are patchily distributed, with different microsites having different resource levels. If plant growth and reproduction depends on access to these resources, then plants may occupy only the richer microsites within a habitat. In order to determine if the presence of individual ramets of Viola blanda Willd. (Violaceae) are correlated with microsite resource levels, I measured soil chemistry (pH, total N, P, K, Ca, Mg) and canopy openness at 100 random points and the nearest 100 points with V. blanda along a 600 m transect in the Cumberland Plateau in eastern Kentucky. A quadratic discriminant function in combination with a cross-validation method found that resource levels correctly classified 77.5% of the violet points and 55.2% of the random points. Wilcoxon signed-rank tests indicated that phosphorus concentrations and tree canopy openness were significantly higher at the violet points than at the random points. However, the random points had higher magnesium levels. Several mechanisms may explain this pattern, including differences in pollinator activity as a result of light levels, myrmecochory, clonal growth, or higher growth rates on microsites with higher resource levels.
10.2307/2996184|The germination ecology of Collinsia verna Nutt., one of only a few native winter annuals that grows in rich deciduous woods in the eastern USA and adjacent Canada, was studied. Seeds are innately dormant at dispersal in late May and early June, but during summer they afterripen and become nondormant. During the afterripening period, seeds gained the ability to germinate in light and darkness at 15/6, 20/10, 25/15 and 30/15 C. Seeds first germinated at 15/6 C (in July) and then at progressively higher temperatures. Germination at 30/15 C was delayed until October, at which time less than 25% of the seeds germinated. After germination began at a particular temperature regime, the germination percentage at that temperature increased as the seeds afterripened further, and by October seeds germinated from 82 to 88% in light and darkness at 15/6 and 20/10 C. From July through September habitat temperatures are too high for germination, and thus seeds do not germinate until early autumn when temperatures become non-limiting. Seeds planted on soil in a non-temperature-controlled greenhouse in early June 1978 and 1981 began to germinate in late September and continued until early November. After the first autumn, no additional seeds germinated in either planting.
10.2307/2484903|Fifty-one years of phytoplankton data from the South District Water Intake of the Chicago Water Filtration Plant were analyzed to determine changes in the phytoplankton community related to the eutrophication of Lake Michigan. From 1930 to 1940, a net biomass (100 mg C/m
10.2307/2483706|Components of the bluegreen algal vegetation are described from a salt marsh at Ipswich, Massachusetts. Their distribution in the salt marsh in relation to various environmental influences is discussed. Continued field and laboratory studies are needed to understand better the plasticity of the organisms with respect to environment, and therefore more correctly interpret the systematics of this group of algae. Descriptions and marsh distribution of 29 species are presented.
10.2307/2484161|This study was undertaken to determine whether any nucellar vascular tissue might be found in Lindera Benzoin which would indicate a relationship between this angiosperm species of the Lauraceae and fossil gymnosperms. Variation in vascular tissue and in the number and arrangement of floral parts is found in the pistillate flower of Lindera Benzoin, but there is no evidence of any vascular tissue development in the nucellus. The ovary of Lindera is supplied by one dorsal and one placental bundle organized directly from axial vascular tissue. Six main traces from the stele supply perianth parts, then stamens, but anastomosis of strands diverged from the vascular bundles of adjacent perianth parts also may supply stamens. Glands are derived from stamens in both pistillate and staminate flowers. Details of vascular anatomy and of seed and fruit development are presented and compared to those reported for other genera of the Lauraceae.
10.2307/2484520|Thirty taxa of the perennial, herbaceous, caespitose Lupinus lepidus-L. caespitosus complex (Papilionaceae) of the Sierra Nevada, Cascade Mountains and a few entities of outlying distributions are chemosystematically compared. Seed alkaloids, separated by thin-layer chromatography, serve as the source material for these comparisons. R
10.2307/2997027|The spatial patterns of tree stems in 480 plots were examined on a series of ten experimental oldfields adjacent to an old growth forest over a 31-year period. Tree stem density decreased exponentially with distance from the forest edge early in succession. Later in succession the predictive power of the negative exponential model decreased, suggesting that processes such as animal seed dispersal within a field become important. Species palatable to herbivores were denser than unpalatable species close to the forest edge which implies that consumer pressure originates in the field rather than in the forest. Stems of all species were clumped on the scale of the 1 m
10.2307/2996178|Laboratory and field studies were undertaken to determine the comparative patterns of dry matter allocation to the rhizome systems of Ammophila and Elymus and the effects of those patterns on bud dispersal and the subsequent spatial distribution of ramets and shoot biomass. Greenhouse-grown plants of Ammophila were found to allocate more dry matter to the development of a vertical, rather than horizontal, rhizome system. In contrast, Elymus plants grown under the same conditions placed a much greater emphasis on an extensive horizontal rhizome system that dispersed buds away from the parental ramet. Buds of Ammophila more often produced vertical rhizomes and tillers when activated, thus leading to an intensive spatial arrangement of shoot dry matter. Low supplies of nitrogen during growth accentuated these differences in allocation to rhizome development and bud dispersal. Tagged Ammophila plants in the field at Point Reyes, California, produced a greater number of localized tillers from vertical rhizomes, and demonstrated higher survivorship than did tagged plants of Elymus. When bud-bearing rhizomes from these clones were cultured in a growth chamber, those of Ammophila maintained a much greater ability to form and establish new ramets. The significance of the distinctive spatial arrangements of ramets and biomass in stands of Ammophila and Elymus is discussed with respect to coastal community dynamics.
10.2307/2996648|Hibiscus militaris is reported from one site in Bronx County, New York. This more southerly species is easily distinguished from the more common Hibiscus palustris by the triangular-shaped leaves with divergent lobes and pubescent seeds.
10.2307/2484555|The distribution and co-distribution patterns of major tree species in four Oklahoma upland forests were investigated. Contingency tables, fitted Poisson distributions, Cole's Index, and correlation were used to analyze pattern. Random or aggregated patterns were found in all stands investigated and regular patterns were never found.
10.2307/2482972|1. All taxa discussed here belong to Argythamnia P. Browne subgenus Ditaxis (Vahl) Croizat. 2. One new species has been described; the staminate flower of Argythamnia argyraea Cory has been described; and, nine species names have been transferred from Ditaxis to Argythamnia.
10.2307/2996796|Radial growth in trees has often been used to measure the relationship between climate and tree growth. Variation in radial growth with respect to environmental variables may indicate how trees in diverse landscapes may respond to climate change. The purpose of this study is to determine whether radial growth is spatially heterogeneous throughout the forest-tundra ecotone of Rocky Mountain National Park and whether this spatial variability can be related to environmental variables. Increment cores were taken from 5-10 of the largest trees in 59 sampling locations distributed across the forest-tundra ecotone of Rocky Mountain National Park. Mean annual ring width for 1978-1987 was measured in the laboratory. Stepwise weighted least squares linear regression was used to relate mean annual growth to 25 environmental variables measured at each sampling location. Mean radial growth is higher at sampling locations with higher soil pH values and where there is small rock material but varies with zone and associated shrub species. When all statistically significant variables are considered, radial growth is slowest in the krummholz zone, intermediate in the patch forest zone, and fastest in the closed forest zone. Within each zone, the presence of Juniperus communis indicates slow radial growth, Vaccinium spp. indicate intermediate radial growth, and Salix spp. indicate rapid radial growth. These results differ from previous studies of vertical seedling leader growth in the FTE, which found higher rates of growth in the krummholz zone. Differing rates of radial and vertical growth may reflect different settings or different responses, though both may indicate tree "success."
10.2307/2996947|Common milkweed is rapidly expanding its range southward. It occurs abundantly in the southern Piedmont of North Carolina and has recently been collected from Cherokee County in the northern Piedmont of South Carolina. Asclepias syriaca has also been collected from four counties in the Piedmont, Ridge and Valley, and Cumberland Plateau regions of northern Georgia. Reasons for the rapid spread of this native plant are unclear, but it does possess strong colonizing potential due to its numerous comose seeds, gemmiferous roots, and limited self-compatibility. It is possible that wind dispersal of seeds is enhanced by drafting off of large, high-speed trucks along interstate highways.
10.2307/2484848|I have studied canopy gaps in a mature oak forest to determine whether gap size is an important variable controlling the mode of response of the understory vegetation. A severe gypsy moth defoliation produced single-tree and multiple-tree openings, and I censussed the vegetation in these openings and in matched control sites to see whether new plants became established, or whether existing plants reorganized their division of resources within the gap area. The data indicated that no "new establishment" of plants had occurred. Rather, the vegetation had reorganized itself, with understory species, principally Cornus florida, becoming the most important element in the lower stratum. The understory species evidently occurred in patches of high relative density, within which canopy-tree reproduction was apparently inhibited or excluded. Because most of the gypsy moth-caused gaps were smaller than these patches of understory growth, gap size did not appear to affect the mode of response of the vegetation. I suggest that gap dynamics can be understood, and perhaps predicted, by superposing the pattern of canopy openings on the patchwork of understory-species growth in the disturbed sand.
10.2307/2997142|1. A developmental study of the seed coat of the lima bean was undertaken in conjunction with other studies directed toward the determination of relative maturity of beans used for freezing. 2. The inner integument of the ovule is composed of two strata, an inner single layer of cells and an outer stratum which varies from one to four cells thick at places, according to the number of periclinal divisions which have occurred. Both strata of this integument disappear in centripetal order during seed coat ontogeny. 3. The outer integument is composed initially of five strata of cells. 4. The innermost two give rise to fifteen layers of cells which elongate and produce long arms in the form of "mycoidal parenchyma," becoming much compressed at seed ripeness. 5. The middle and next outer strata produce several layers of cells, of which all but the outermost become large, tangentially elongated parenchyma. The vascular bundles are embedded in this parenchyma. This group of cells also constitutes the bulk of integumentary tissue at the hilum. In the outermost of these layers, i.e. the subepidermal layer, are formed the characteristic column cells, separated by large lacunae. 6. The outer epidermis remains uniseriate, and its long narrow cells become the palisade layer. 7. Initial development of the palisade and its largest cells occur at the anterior micropylar rim, which is raised early by meristematic activity of the coaxial type. 8. At the hilum, development of the tracheid island and the double separation layer occurs as in other papilionate seeds. 9. A rim aril is formed from the adjoining thick-walled cells of the funiculus. 10. Correlated with optimum edible maturity of the seed are the following phenomena, disappearance of starch from the parenchyma cells of the outer integument; development of hemicellulosic wall thickenings in palisade cells over the entire extent of the seed coat; and formation of lignin in the middle lamella between the two adjoining palisade layers at the hilum.
10.2307/2484299|A systematic revision of the North American Galium obtusum group consisting of G. labradoricum, G. obtusum ssp. obtusum and ssp. filifolium (comb. nov.) is presented. Types, synonyms, descriptions, chromosome numbers, pollen measurements, ecological observations and distribution maps are given for each taxon. Taxonomic problems, morphological variability and characters separating them from other taxa of sect. Aparinoides that occur in North America are critically discussed. An artificial key is also provided. The group is a polyploid complex containing a diploid (G. labradoricum: 2n=24) and two tetraploids (G. obtusum ssp. obtusum and ssp. filifolium: 2n=48). Chromosome number determinations for G. labradoricum and G. obtusum ssp. filifolium are new.
10.2307/2483333|The annual linear growth rate of the lobes of three species of lichens, Lobaria pulmonaria, L. quercizans and Menegazzia terebrata, growing on the Cumberland Plateau in Tennessee were determined photo-graphically for a three-year period. During 1964-1967 lobes of L. pulmonaria averaged 4.82 mm annually; L. quercizans, 5.62 mm; and M. terebrata, 2.54 mm. There was wide variation of growth within each species, some lobes growing little or none one year and two and a half times the 3 year average the subsequent year. Slow annual growth of a lobe was usually preceded or followed by rapid growth.
10.2307/2560360|The woody vegetation of a previously studied 60-yr-old successional forest on a floodplain of the Raritan River in New Jersey was analyzed for rate of forest development in relation to site characteristics. Environmental factors including texture, chemical characteristics, and moisture of the surface 15 cm of soil; soil horizonation; depth of the water table; and frequency of flooding were analyzed along an elevational gradient. A rather abrupt change in soil texture and chemical characteristics, especially exchangeable cations, occurred at approximately 3.35 m above mean sea level. Corresponding to this textural and chemical discontinuity was a change in depth of the water table. Comparisons of woody species composition above and below 3.35 m showed consistent differences, with the higher area having greater species richness, species diversity (H'), equitability (J'), basal areas of trees, and total cover of shrubs. Comparisons of the rate of forest development on the high area of the floodplain with that of nearby upland sites indicated that development occurs more rapidly on the floodplain. With respect to trees ( 2.54 cm dbh), at stages of approximately 21 to 25, 40, and 60 years, the floodplain showed greater species diversity, equitability, basal area, mean stem diameter, and tree height. The floodplain study area passed from a thicket to a structurally complex forest stage between 40 and 60 years in development.
10.2307/2996344|The tristylous Mexican Oxalis nelsonii has trimorphic flowers with trimorphic pollen of generally high viability. In a crossing program using a diploid race of this species, seed-set following illegitimate pollinations is lower than that following legitimate pollinations, indicating the presence of an incompatibility system. Long-level anthers are more than twice as fecund as mids and shorts. Self-incompatibility seems to be strongest in shorts and weakest in longs. All illegitimate pollinations resulted in some seed set. The compatibility relationships of the morphs of O. nelsonii differ in various ways from those of the other tristylous members of section Ionoxalis that have been studied. The nature of the selective forces leading to the repeated evolution of distyly from tristyly in this section remains unclear, though future studies of the tetraploid races of O. nelsonii may provide insights into these forces.
10.2307/2484873|Litter deposition and the standing crop of the L and F layers of the forest floor in the William L. Hutcheson Memorial Forest were measured over a two-year period from September 1971 to September 1973. The mean annual total litter fall was 648.1 g m
10.2307/2482101|1. Utilizing the freezing-drying technique developed by DeLamater (1951), a typical mitotic process comparable to that which occurs in higher organisms has been defined. 2. The mechanism includes morphologically distinct centrioles, what appear to be two chromosomes, and the formation of a cell plate when the cross wall is developed. 3. The chromosomes have been shown to elongate into threads and contract during the course of the cycle. It is thought that a nucleolus also occurs.
10.2307/2996338|Circular plots of 250 m<sup>2</sup> area centered on standing dead stems of Ulmus americana were used to sample understory vegetation in canopy gaps created by the death of elms. A total of 37 plots were sampled in 28 sites representing a variety of wetland habitats. Shrub species typical of open habitats were abundant in gaps created by the death of 2 or more neighboring elms (multiple-tree gaps) but not in single-tree gaps. Multiple-tree gaps contained fewer seedlings and saplings of canopy tree species than did single-tree gaps. The patchiness of occurrence of the open-canopy shrubs and their relationship to multiple-tree gaps were not reflected in conventional large-scale (0.1 ha) vegetation samples of the same stands. The establishment of dense patches of shrubs may inhibit tree regeneration within the multiple-tree gaps.
10.2307/2996996|Leaflets of Caesalpinia pulcherrima Sw. and Parkinsonia aculeata L. (Caesalpinia group, Tribe Caesalpinieae, Subfamily Caesalpinioideae, Leguminosae) were examined fresh or processed for clearing, resin-embedded sectioning, and scanning electron microscopy. Both species have dimorphic idioblasts restricted to adaxial and abaxial subepidermis: broadly ovoid to pyriform (adaxial) and obloid (abaxial) in C. pulcherrima, and cylindrical (adaxial) and obloid to lobedobloid (abaxial) in P. aculeata. Cell contents were not identified but all idioblasts tested negative for oil. In both species, several thousand idioblasts occur per leaflet, with the preponderance, at least twice as many, being adaxial. Caesalpinia pulcherrima has two possibly unique features: idioblasts are connected to the epidermis by peglike invaginations from overlying epidermal cells; and numerous scattered epidermal patches, each consisting of 2-8 tiny cuboidal cells, occur among, but not in contact with, idioblasts. These subepidermal foliar idioblasts were described briefly only once before, in a German dissertation of 1892. Although idioblast function is unknown, these unusual cells are perhaps potential taxonomic characters in this still tentatively classified tribe.
10.2307/2996361|Age and size data on over 2200 trees were used to reconstruct developmental.patterns and regeneration dynamics of four successional and two climax stands of subalpine forests in the Colorado Front Range. The dominant tree species of these forests are Engelmann spruce (Picea engelmannii), subalpine fir (Abies lasiocarpa), limber pine (Pinusflexilis), and lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta). Due to relatively weak relationships between age and size for all four species, patterns of stand development could not have been reliably inferred from size data alone. Following wildfire on the most xeric sites, limber pine is the principal pioneer species and dominates seedling establishment for 50 to 100 or more years. At most sites, however, Engelmann spruce and subalpine fir eventually establish and gradually replace limber pine. On less xeric sites, depending on availability of seed, either Engelmann spruce or lodgepole pine, alone or together, may act as pioneer species. Establishment of subalpine fir may be coincident or may be several decades later. Eventually it and Engelmann spruce replace lodgepole pine as the canopy dominants. The age structures of the stands investigated are consistent with the view that variation in establishment is at least as important as mortality in shaping age frequency distributions in successional stands. In climax Engelmann spruce-subalpine fir stands both species have all-aged populations; the typically greater abundance of young subalpine fir appears to be compensated by the much greater longevity of Engelmann spruce.
10.2307/2481860|1. In an endeavor to determine the basis of the differences in interpretation of Braun's treatment of N. mucronata by Olsen (1949) and Wood (1948), a re-examination of Braun's original text was undertaken. 2. It was found that this treatment differs from all others in the text by two major aspects, and that in order to interpret N. mucronata in a manner consistent with the remainder of the text certain re-editing is necessary. 3. The re-editing required substantiates Wood's (1948) usage and indicates that Olsen's usage should be reconsidered. 4. A number of Olsen's statements are nullified if Wood's usage is accepted. The majority of other criticisms appear to arise from differences in editorial style in different countries, and the fact that Wood's review is a concentration of information requiring considered study. 5. It is indicated that Wood's names are both valid and legitimate in his interpretation of the "International Rules." 6. It is concluded that N. mucronata illustrates a case of the lack of systematic presentation in Braun's Fragmente which, among other aspects (cf. Wood 1950), renders it unsuitable as a starting-point for nomenclature.
10.2307/2996107|Using comparisons of aerial photograph and field measurements of 55 clones, we determined the rate of expansion of bayberry in Andropogon scoparius grassland in the natural area portion of the Floyd Bennett Field unit of Gateway National Recreation Area. We found that between 1980 and 1984 the average annual rate of bayberry cover increase was 4 08% We discuss bayberry's role in future vegetation change at Floyd Bennett Field, and point out the possible threat to continued change posed by expansion of fire-prone and fire-tolerant Phragmites australis
10.2307/2996262|The Kalbfleisch Field Research Station is a 38-hectare tract in the Dix Hills section of Suffolk County, on Long Island, New York. Topography is determined by the Ronkonkoma end moraine. A 25 hectare area on the station, designated the "Old Forest," is underlain with soils of three types: a silt loam, a sandy loam, and a loamy sand. The Old Forest was censused for trees, and was sampled for two understory layers by means of line transects. Trees that exhibited the greatest percentage of total basal area are: Quercus alba (29.3%), Q. velutina (29.1%), Cornus florida (22.2%), Carya ovalis (8.5%) and Quercus coccinea (6.2%). We designate this forest type as Oak, Hickory-Dogwood. A review of the literature reveals that forests of this type are widespread on drier sites in the vicinity of New York City.
10.2307/2482751|A vegetation survey was conducted in a 30 acre stand located five miles from Philadelphia on the Chickies Formation of the Trenton Prong. Dominant canopy species in order of importance are Quercus velutina, Q. rubra, Liriodendron tulipifera,and Quercus coccinea. The 80-90 foot canopy consists of growth initiated after the stand was clear-cut approximately 50 years ago at the time of the chestnut blight. The poorly developed understory is 20 feet high, and composed of Acer rubrum, and Cornus florida. Over half of the vegetative cover at shrub level is Viburnum, acerifolium. This stand's composition is similar to the oak-tuliptreehickory stands described by earlier investigators as occurring to the west and southwest of Philadelphia and indicates that the association represented by all these stands extended close to the present day boundaries of northwestern Philadelphia.
10.2307/2996724|The protogynous flowers of Sanguinaria canadensis L. (Papaveraceae) were facultatively xenogamous. They were cross-pollinated by bees, primarily female Adrena carlini, when flying conditions permitted and self-pollinated in their absence, which was a consequence of cool and/or rainy weather. Moderate to high pollinator activity did not occur until air temperatures reached 17-20
10.2307/2996813|Approximately 40% of 500 Erythronium americanum seeds sown in 1979 in a 1-m
10.2307/2483383|The extension of pollen viability has been attempted by the control of extremes of either temperature or humidity. However, most studies have dealt with the effects on pollen longevity of various combinations of the more moderate levels of temperature and relative humidity. A new approach to the extension of pollen viability has been by the freeze-drying method, which permits storage of a sealed sample in an uncontrolled atmospheric environment and makes possible the shipment of pollen in inexpensive, conventional-type packaging. The reported pollen storage results with this method by various investigators are given, together with the most recent data from experiments of over seven years by the author in which treated pollen has, to date been stored for over three years in an uncontrolled atmospheric environment.
10.2307/2996121|An old-growth (more than 150 years old) forest in southeastern Louisiana was studied during 1982-1983 using nested quadrats to quantify the ecological importance of the woody species. The canopy of +35 m height is dominated by American beech (Fagus grandifolia Ehrhart) with 3 other co-dominants: spruce pine (Pinus glabra Walter), southern magnolia (Magnolia grandiflora L.) and sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua L.). The relict angiosperm star anise (Illicium floridanum Ellis) is a very common shrub. Twenty-eight woody species were found, within a forest basal area of 39.8 m<sup>2</sup>/ha. The overstory species were underrepresented in the smaller size classes, while the shrub and understory species showed typical reverse J-shaped size class distributions. The forest is thought to be climax.
10.2307/2481897|Roots of Allium cepa were treated with 1, 100, 1000 and 2000 ppm. solutions of maleic hydrazide, and observations were made on the inhibition of total growth and of cell division alone. The effects on both were in order of the concentration of the MH solutions, but the effect on cell division did not occur simultaneously with the effect on total growth. It is suggested that lower concentrations inhibit cell division but not cell enlargement, while higher concentrations inhibit both. Deleterious effects on tissue structure were observed only among groups treated with solutions of 1000 and 2000 ppm. continuously. These were also the only groups in which there was any failure of recovery from the treatment.
10.2307/2484553|A New species, Clidemia utleyana, is described from the valley of the Rio Grande de Orosi in Costa Rica. Diagnostic features of this species include its cordate leaves with long acuminate to caudate apices, short congested inflorescences, bright red petals, and obovoid to dolabriform anthers with ventrally inclined apical pores. The new species appears to be a taxonomically isolated entity without close relatives among described congeners.
10.2307/2996811|Fruit quality was examined by species, vegetation association, soil parameters, and time since fire. Of the nine species examined, Carya floridana fruits had the highest concentrations of energy, protein, fat, fiber, nitrogen, phosphorus, iron, copper, and zinc and had the highest digestibility. Acorns of the red oaks studied (Quercus myrtifolia, Q. inopina, Q. laevis) had higher energy and fat concentrations and greater total digestibility than acorns of the white oaks examined (Q. geminata, Q. minima, Q. chapmanii). Palmetto (Sabal etonia, Serenoa repens) drupes were high in fiber, ash, and concentrations of potassium, sulfur (Sabal etonia), and sodium (Serenoa repens). Fruit quality was not correlated with site soil characteristics. Although fruit quality changes correlated with time since fire in some species, the changes differed by species and vegetation association. During ripening, hickory fruits increased concentrations of protein and fat but decreased levels of energy and fiber. In contrast, acorns increased energy concentrations and the amounts of digestible carbohydrate. Palmetto fruits decreased in energy, protein, and fiber concentrations during ripening. These results are useful in understanding preferences among frugivorous animals.
10.2307/2484743|Comparative studies of the anatomy and morphology of S. apoda (L.) Spring and S. ludoviciana A. Br. were undertaken as a basis for understanding the anatomy and taxonomy of the two taxa. Selaginella ludoviciana has an erect habit, while S. apoda remains prostrate. Both species branch pseudomonopodially. The microphylls of S. ludoviciana have a hyaline border, whereas a distinctive differentiated margin is lacking in the leaves of S. apoda. Differences in leaf morphology, stomatal distribution and leaf anatomy occur in the taxa. In both species adventitious roots arise at the dichotomies of the stem and exhibit a monarch form and exarch xylem maturation. The stelar pattern of the stem is protostelic, with the stele suspended by trabeculae in a lacuna. Xylem maturation is exarch in the stem. A basic nodal pattern of a single, unbranched trace associated with no leaf gap occurs in both species. The taxonomic recognition of a single species versus two species is discussed.
10.2307/2483953|Callus was caused to grow under axenic conditions on stem segments of systemically infected tobacco plants. Such callus had a high concentration of virus which persisted, in progressively diminishing amounts, through 5 transfers, at monthly intervals, to new medium. The cells were shaken apart in liquid medium and observed by time-lapse phase photomicrography. The first of 2 types of inclusion-containing cells had several large X-bodies, later developed spike crystals, then more small X-bodies, and finally, hexagonal crystals. The second had one or more large hexagonal crystals, later often developed more of them, but usually developed only a few X-bodies, and often none. In all inclusion-containing cells the streaming appeared to be at the same rate as in uninfected cells, though the former had much more cytoplasm (as transvacuolar strands) than the latter. The X-body-containing cells underwent normal division, but the crystal-containing ones did not. The nuclei of inclusion-containing cells lost their granular aspect and became very light-absorbing. There was a long-time persistence of the inclusions under the conditions of culture. Size of inclusion-containing cells was not less than that of healthy cells, in contrast to infected mesophyll in vivo. The isolated cell, previously infected as a component of callus, can develop inclusions as do cells in vivo. This development is entirely intracellular, and does not require contact with other living cells. However, such contact appears necessary for entrance of virus to make possible its future duplication.
10.2307/2996913|Flowering and fruiting of the small flowered pawpaw, Asimina parviflora (Michx.) Dunal, was studied in central Florida to determine phenology, pollination, breeding system and germination. This species flowers from mid-February to the end of March. The protogynous flowers occasionally overlap in pistillate and staminate phases. Diptera are the main visitors to the flowers. Bagged flowers occasionally produce fruits (6.8% in 1984). In open-pollinated flowers 3.2% matured fruits in 1984, and 4.5% matured in 1987. Hand cross-pollinations resulted in 16% fruit-set in 1984 and 25% in 1987. Hand self-pollinations resulted in 10.4% fruit-set in 1987. Seed numbers per flower were significantly larger for cross pollinations. Of cross-pollinated seeds, 17.5% germinated; of open-pollinated, 10%; and of self-pollinated, 0%.
10.2307/2484718|A standard leaf color classification system was developed to represent five stages of autumn coloration for leaves of the deciduous plains cottonwood (Populus sargentii Dode). Freshly picked leaves representative of each of these five standard colors were quantitatively extracted for chlorophyll. Fully green leaves had a total chlorophyll concentration of 14.4 mg/g leaf and a chlorophyll a:b ratio of 4.10. In the transition from green to yellow, the total chlorophyll decreased to 1.44 mg/g leaf with the chlorophyll a:b ratio decreasing to 2.18 in fully yellow leaves. Some physiological aspects of the decrease in the chlorophyll a:b ratio are discussed.
10.2307/2484259|Thirty stratigraphic samples from a 2.75-m section of sedge peat located on northern Adak were studied for their pollen and spore content. The section is approximately 10,250 radiocarbon years in age and contains numerous volcanic ash horizons. Three major pollen assemblages indicative of the postglacial vegetation sequence are (1) Cyperaceae-Salix-Empetrum-Lycopodium in the beginning, (2) Cyperaceae and Gramineae between about 10,000 and 3,000 years ago, and (3) subsequently Empetrum. Climate, cold and windy during the early and late postglacial and warmer midway, is interpreted to be primarily responsible for the vegetation changes. The effect of ashfalls on the vegetation appears to have been only transitory.
10.2307/2996885|Sphagnum carolinianum, S isoviitae, S brevifolium, S viridum and S. majus ssp. norvegicum are added to the New York State flora while S strictum is removed, giving a current total of 50 species and one subspecies. Significant inland range extensions are also noted for the oceanic species S. tenerum and S. flavicomans. The status of S. bartlettianum in the state is clarified. Several new records are noted for the rare S. annulatum and S andersonianum.
10.2307/2484659|Woods of 35 species of Weinmannia were studied and the variability analyzed in relation to various environmental factors. All species possess solitary vessels which have opposite to scalariform intervessel pitting and scalariform perforation plates, fiber-tracheids, both multiseriate and uniseriate rays, and diffuse to diffuse-in-aggregates and scanty axial parenchyma. The anatomical variation present among species does not appear correlated with altitude but rather with major floristic regions and latitude. Neotropical montane species typically possess the most primitive vessel element type as evidenced by diameter, outline in transverse section, intervessel pitting, and the number of bars per perforation plate. Indo-Malesian and Madagascan plants have the most advanced vessel condition. Species from higher latitudes exhibit trends in wood structure similar to those reported for other dicotyledons, viz., growth rings present and vessels that are very narrow in diameter and which tend to be shorter in length than other members of the genus. Although it is clear that the most primitive woods have been maintained in the Neotropical uplands, it is unclear why the species from Indo-Malesia have more advanced anatomy.
10.2307/2483509|Eighteen seeds developed in 64 florets in controlled reciprocal crosses of A. scribneri and S. hystrix. Fifteen of the 18 seeds germinated, and each proved to be hybrid. The hybrids were morphologically intermediate between the parents, although they bore a closer resemblance to S. hystrix in overall size and appearance. The parents were meiotically regular and behaved cytologically as strict allotetraploids, 2n= 28. The hybrids averaged 1.74 univalents and 13.13 bivalents in 138 cells at metaphase I. Chromosome pairing, which was attributed to allosyndesis, indicated a close relationship between A. scribneri and S. hystrix genomes. In spite of close genomic homologies, the hybrids were totally sterile. A. Scribneri and S. hystrix appear to be more closely related than their current taxonomic status indicates. Key diagnostic characteristics such as single vs. multiple spikelets and continuous vs. disarticulating rachis do not accurately reflect relationship among Agropyron, Elymus, and Sitanion species.
10.2307/2484415|Torilis japonica (Houtt.) DC., an Eurasian winter annual, occurs in disturbed habitats throughout much of the eastern United States. Germination occurs in September and October, and seeds mature in late July and early August of the following year. Seeds are not dispersed at maturity but remain attached to the plants until autumn. Although a large portion of the seed crop is nondormant at maturity and at dispersal, many of the seeds do not germinate until autumn of the next year. Seeds that do not germinate in autumn are induced into dormancy by low winter temperatures and thus spring-germination is prevented. During spring and summer the seeds after-ripen, and they germinate during the following autumn. One possible ecological significance of this life cycle strategy is that a reserve of seeds in the soil would give the species in any given area another chance for establishment without immigration should seed crop failure occur.
10.2307/2482737|1. Pythium mamillatum appears intimately related to P. debaryanum as it resembles that species in the branching habit of its mycelium, in the shape and size of its sporangia, and in the positional relationships of its oogonia and antheridia. 2. A germinating oospore of Pythium mamillatum may produce swarm spores by undergoing conversion into a sporangium, or by giving rise to a globose sporangium outside the oogonial envelope.
10.2307/2995940|The genus Marginariopsis (based on Drymoglossum wiesbaurii) is usually separated from Pleopeltis because of its leaf dimorphy, the sporophylls tall and narrow and coenosoral. Comparative studies of this taxon and its nearest relatives indicate that there are three stages of differentiation of the fertile leaves (1) monomorphy (typical Pleopeltis) to dimorphy (P. fructuosa), (2) Separate sori (typical Pleopeltis) to partial soral fusion (semicoenosory, P. gomeziana sp. nov.), and (3) partial to complete soral fusion (coenosory, P. wiesbaurii). On the basis of this sequence of transformations, it is concluded that the generic segregation of Marginariopsis is untenable. The changes in leaf dimorphy described in the present group of three species are paralleled by those in the genus Solanopteris. The appropriate taxonomic treatment of the transitional taxa is not entirely resolved.
10.2307/2484522|Macerated leaves, esculin and sesquiterpene lactones obtained from Artemisia tridentata ssp. vaseyana and other species of sagebrush inhibited the growth and stimulated the respiration of Cucumis sativus. Arbusculin-A, achillin, desacetoxymatricarin, viscidulin-C and viscidulin-B were the most active sesquiterpene lactones and showed phytochemical effects at 10
10.2307/2483933|In addition to the reported hexaploid and octoploid forms, red maple may exist as a septaploid and in an aneuploid condition. Aneuploid hybrids with silver maple are also possible. Neither euploid or aneuploid interspecific hybrids show meiotic irregularities associated with hybridity, although there may be a precocious separation of the silver maple chromosomes at late metaphase I. Interspecific hybrids go through meiosis in the spring, as in red maple. Asynapsis in an octoploid red maple resulted in a wide size-range of pollen, with only the 2x or the 4x grains being functional in fertilization on different females.
10.2307/2482156|In all respects the cytology of T. Reverchoni corresponds closely with the cytology of other autotetraploid species of the Virginiana complex of Tradescantia as reported by previous workers. T. Reverchoni is an autotetraploid with n = 12 chromosomes with median or submedian centromeres. There is an average of 3.1 multivalent chromosome configurations per cell at metaphase of the first meiotic division. Chiasmata are all terminal at metaphase, and there is an average of 0.9 chiasmata per univalent chromosome. Only one case of chromosome interlocking was found in the 21 cells studied. Pollen fertility is about 85 per cent with occasional micronuclei present in young spores. It is probable that this is a purely tetraploid species.
10.2307/2484696|Polyembryony, particularly in angiosperms, is a rare occurrence. This is a report on the occurrence of this unusual phenomenon in Acer saccharum Marsh. and the successful growth of two sets of twin seedlings for more than three years.
10.2307/2483912|In a dry-mesic area at 11,600 feet in northern Colorado, a study was made to evaluate plot shape, size, and number for quantitative study of alpine vegetation. The plots tested were 100, 400, 800, and 1600 square centimeters in size, with rectangles, squares and one circle utilized. Placement designs were random and block random. Densities were determined for seven species, ranging from common to uncommon, and frequencies were found for all species in one plot size. Pattern was estimated by chi-square and the variance/mean ratio for the species sampled for density. Estimates of plot efficiency were based upon the time required to read the number of plots needed to obtain a 10 per cent standard error of the mean, and upon average weighted standard deviations and stability in density and frequency values. Of the various evaluations, none favored the smallest sized plots of 100 cm
10.2307/2483623|Among 35 inbred lines and single crosses of corn (Zea mays L.), the sugary inbred line P14 was superior for endosperm culture. Endosperm tissue grew best at 32 C in Nitsch's medium with 4% sucrose and supplemented with 0.5% Difco yeast extract. Yeast extract could be partially replaced by asparagine. The best period for endosperm excision was 7-10 days after controlled self-pollination. Subculturing was best accomplished from material incubated for 3-4 weeks at 32 C. Tissues isolated at or beyond 12 days post-pollination not only failed to grow but lost weight due to continuous respiration at the expense of reserve materials during early stages of incubation. The tissue attained maximum growth 40 days after incubation. Tissue cultures were maintained by periodic transfers, and the earliest isolate was grown for 20 months through 23 successive subcultures. Growth of new isolates as well as subcultures was consistent.
10.2307/2484445|Patterns of energy allocation, inflorescence height, and time of anthesis were studied in a greenhouse for the sexes of Rumex hastatulus, a dioecious annual colonizer. Four soil fertility levels and four densities were employed to determine whether shifts in sex ratio could be induced and whether males and females differed in their patterns of energy allocation. The sex ratio did not change in response to density and nutrient treatments and remained near 53% female: 47% male. Males flowered significantly earlier than females and had shorter inflorescences. Females contained more total energy than males and contained more energy in roots, inflorescences, and inflorescence leaves. Females allocated both a higher total amount of energy and a higher proportion of energy to reproduction than did males. Except for total energy and proportion of energy allocated to reproduction, energy allocation patterns for males and females were similar in response to the density and nutrient treatments. These results are discussed both in terms of niche partitioning between the sexes and in terms of differences in optimal reproductive strategies of males and females.
10.2307/2483275|Fertile leaf margin fragments of Adiantum hispidulum containing varied stages in spore development were fixed in Huseby's fixative for mitochondrial preservation, sectioned at three micra by the paraffin method and stained with iron hematoxylin. Study of the sections shows that through interphase I, the behavior of the cytoplasmic inclusions is essentially like that previously described in Nephrodium, Onoclea, Polypodium and Osmunda. Study of sections of the second division shows a pattern of cytokinesis similar to that of Osmunda regalis. In Adiantum hispidulum, the compact plate present at interphase I is converted, by folding and migration of granules, into a six-planed figure delineating the internal faces of the four tetrahedrally symmetrical spores arising from the spore mother cell. This is precisely as it occurs in Osmunda regalis. The significance of this similarity of behavior is discussed and the probability that it represents a genreal cytokinetic phenomenon in the development of trilete spores is suggested.
10.2307/2483010|The roots of all species showed a common pattern in which a centrally located transversal meristem gave rise to the central cylinder and the cortex toward the base and columella of the root cap toward the tip. The epidermis and lateral portion of the root cap were formed by meristematic cells at the margin of the transversal meristem. Changes in the relative proportions of the different regions of the apex occurred during growth. Width of the meristem and columella of the root cap increased during late embryogeny and early germination. As the root apex narrowed with prolonged growth, there appeared to be some reduction in the width of the meristem. These changes were also accompanied by a reduction in size of the lateral portion of the root cap and the orientation of its cells which come to be more or less parallel to the root axis rather than oblique to it. The decrease in the diameter of the meristem was slight in comparison with the decrease in the diameter of the apex in the longer roots. Hence, the proportions of the meristem and the regions derived from it were altered as the root elongated. In the narrowest roots the meristem occupied a relatively greater portion of the apex diameter. Cortical cells were contributed by the transversal meristem and by periclinal divisions of the innermost cortical cell layer. The major portion was derived from the meristem, only a few cell rows having been added by the periclinal divisions. These divisions were randomly distributed on different radii.
10.2307/2996101|Quantitative descriptions of the vegetation and environmental conditions were made for the Albany Pine Bush, an area containing tracts of pitch pine-shrub oak pine barrens communities which experience frequent fires Detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) was used to order 20 randomly-selected 0 1 ha samples and 30 species along compositional axes The arrangement of samples along the first axis was strongly related to disturbance by fire and agriculture Sixty percent of the samples have not burned severely in the last 30 yr and are hardwood forests or declining pitch pine forests with negligible amounts of shrub oak Hardwood trees in the forest samples were younger than nearby pitch pines A second DCA axis was correlated with depth to water table Samples with high water tables were dominated by hardwood species High densities of young white pine were found under aging pitch pines on dry sites Pitch pine-shrub oak vegetation represents only a small portion of the total Pine Bush However, this community will probably persist despite severe fire suppression in nearby areas, because the vegetation occupies contiguous tracts which have burned as many as four times since 1968, and will probably burn in the future The composition and dynamics of the plant communities in the upland areas of the Albany Pine Bush vary with disturbance regimes and site conditions
10.2307/2995957|The vegetation of six dwarf-shrub bogs in the southern Catskill Mountain region was quantified using phytosociological methods. Four of these peatlands were weakly minerotrophic ecosystems and two were moderately minerotrophic. The dominant vascular plant was Chamaedaphne calyculata, with Kalmia angustifolia, Kalmia polifolia and Vaccinium oxycoccus also being prominent. In comparison to the flora of dwarfshrub bogs found in northern New Jersey, several northern species were either limited to the southern Catskill sites or were more abundant there. Rhododendron canadense (a rare plant in New York) is reported for the first time from this part of the state.
10.2307/2996732|Surveys of wetlands, cliffs and alpine areas in the Adirondacks region of northeastern New York resulted in 12 new stations for rare native species. Saxifraga oppositifolia is an addition to the New York flora. Additional stations are recorded for two recently reported species in New York: Empetrum eamesii ssp. atropurpureum and Trisetum melicoides. Erigeron hyssopifolius and Carex capillaris have been relocated after a lapse in observations of nearly a century. Carex capillaris, Erigeron hyssopifolius, Poa fernaldiana and Saxifraga oppositifolia are recommended for state endangered species status. Calamagrostis pickeringii populations are widespread and stable in the region.
10.2307/2484746|Ridge top heath balds, similar to those found in the Great Smoky Mountains, are common in the Mahoosue Range located on the border of northern New Hampshire and Maine at about 1100 m elevation. The vegetation of a heath bald on Mahoosuc Arm (1140-1170 m elevation) was sampled by the line-intercept method. Kalmia angustifolia is the dominant species throughout the heath bald. Ericaceous species comprise about 75% of the canopy cover on the heath bald. Correlations between species composition and two environmental factors, topographic position and soil depth, were detected. An interspecific association analysis using the line-intercept method was devised, and several species associations were observed on the heath bald. Evidence of fire disturbance was absent on the ridge-top site. Some factors which resulted in the initiation and persistence of the heath bald vegetation are explored.
10.2307/2482103|1. Sorocarps, or fruiting structures, in Dictyostelium are formed by the orderly differentiation of large numbers of separate but clearly coordinated amoeboid cells, or myxamoebae. 2. The sorophore, or stalk, consists of an outer sheath of cellulose surrounding a column of closely compacted, strongly vacuolated, pith-like cells. The sheath appears in advance of obvious cell differentiation and is formed by the extracellular deposition of cellulose in a critical circular zone, the dimensions of which are proportional to the mass of cooperating myxamoebae. 3. The principal force responsible for lifting the sorogen, or sporogenous mass, into the air results from the swelling of stalk cells entrapped in the elongating sorophore sheath; a second and progressively diminishing force results from the coordinated pseudopodial movements of the myxamoebae that comprise the sorogen. Tests which indicate that the sorophore sheath (of extracellular origin) is cellulosic in character include: staining reactions, solubilities, birefringence in polarized light, X-ray diffracton pattern, paper chromatography of hydrolysis products, and decomposition by cellulose- destroying bacteria.
10.2307/2483801|A new species of Psilophyton, P. forbesii, is reported from upper Lower Devonian deposits in northern Maine. The plant is characterized by a strong central (monopodial) stem up to 9 mm in diameter with dichotomously forking side branches; spines or emergences are lacking; the ovoid sporangia were borne in terminal pairs and measure approximately 3.5 to 4.0 mm long and 1.3 to 1.8 mm in greatest diameter. A brief account is given of other early Devonian plants from Maine that are under study in the authors' laboratory and a review is given of two recent studies by H. P. Banks and F. M. Hueber bearing on the classification of the psilophytes and the status of the genus Psilophyton.
10.2307/2482855|Pollen diagrams from sections of estuarine bogs, formerly occupied by coast white cedar (Chamaecyparis thyoides), at Secaucus, East Rutherford, and Kearny, contain a record of local and regional environmental changes covering the last two millennia. Subdivision of the diagrams into pollen zones C3a and C3b follows the zonal system proposed by Deevey for New England. Zone C3a reveals alder and birch in the immediate areas of the bogs and oak, hickory, and chestnut on the upland. Zone C3b records increasing proportions notably of spruce on the bogs with a sharp rise of cattail, ragweed, grass, chenopod-amaranth, and other herbaceous species (sub-zone C3b
10.2307/2484851|Two South American pepper trees, Schinus molle L. and Schinus terebinthifolius Raddi, have been grown in Santa Barbara as ornamentals for at least 100 years. Yet only S. molle L. has become naturalized, even though both taxa are vigorous colonizers. Seed germination characteristics were studied for both species to determine a possible mechanism which inhibits the naturalization of S. terebinthifolius Raddi in southern California. Several germination characteristics were found to differ between these two species, such as relative cold tolerance, acid treatment requirements, and the time between imbibition and germination. The slow germination rate of S. terebinthifolius Raddi may inhibit establishment by not allowing germination and root development during the brief periods of ample soil moisture in southern California. An endogenous germination inhibition system of phenolic acids is suggested for both species. Research is continuing on relative seedling establishment, and the endogenous inhibition system.
10.2307/2484936|The features used by Iljinskaya in proposing the genus Cyclocarya in the Juglandaceae to include Pterocarya paliurus are analyzed and it is shown that most of these are variable or of minor importance, and Cyclocarya is proposed as a subgenus. A revised classification of Pterocarya is given, with new combinations, P. macroptera varieties macroptera, delavayi, insignis, forrestii.
10.2307/2996287|The impact of gypsy moth defoliation on four species of oaks in the Greenbrook Sanctuary, NJ, indicates that mortality of Quercus rubra is significantly higher than that of Q. alba, Q. prinus, and Q. velutina. Larger red oaks experience the highest mortality. Mortality is highest for red oaks occupying moist and mesic sites and lowest for oaks at dry sites. Red oak has experienced a 56% decline in relative dominance over a three-year period, 1980-1982.
10.2307/2483971|Carbon dioxide exchange in two mesic (Catopsis nutans and Guzmania lingulata) and two xeric tilland-sioid bromeliads (Tillandsia circinnata and T. ionantha) was determined under several different environmental conditions. Both xeric species exhibited pronounced dark CO
10.2307/2483366|All plants in two populations studied were self-incompatible. Self- and cross-incompatibility were associated with pin and thrum flowers of the Primula type. There was considerable variation in length of flower parts among, but not within, individuals. Incompatibility was due to pollen tube inhibition, swelling and bursting at the juncture of hair-like stigmas and style. Pollen tubes from incompatible crosses stained better than pollen tubes from compatible crosses. The species has pollen of two nuclei, 14 to 16 pairs of chromosomes and simultaneous type of cytokinesis after meiosis. The incompatibility is concluded to be of the Primula type but without tight linkage of incompatibility and modifying genes.
10.2307/2996745|The heterogeneity and size of a persistent seedbank of Ambrosia artemisiifolia L. and Setaria faberi Herrm. were studied in two neighboring 7-m x 7-m plots. One hundred sixty pairs of 500-cm
10.2307/2484900|The ceramiaceous red alga Antithamnion boreale is shown to be similar to the genus Scagelia in possessing unequal whorl-branches in groups of 1-4 on each axial cell, gland cells that are lateral on a single parent cell, sessile tetrasporangia, and carposporophytes that develop on whorl-branches that continue growth. A. boreale and the only known species of the genus Scagelia, S. occidentale, appear to be very closely related, differing only by the production of more gland cells in S. occidentale and by the slightly more sinusoidal nature of its apex. The new binomial Scagelia corallina (Ruprecht) comb. nov. is proposed for these species, using the oldest basionym available, Callithamnion corallina Ruprecht; and Scagelia occidentale is reduced to varietal status, as Scagelia corallina var. occidentale (Wollaston) comb. nov.
10.2307/2996627|Dry mass and net photosynthesis (P
10.2307/2484461|Scutellaria parvula Michx. (Lamiaceae) is an herbaceous skullcap that grows in prairies, meadows, open woods and cedar (limestone) glades throughout much of the eastern United States. In the middle Tennessee cedar glades, plants flower, set seeds and form moniliform tubers in May and early June and then die in late June, leaving only the seeds and tubers. Most of the seeds are dormant at maturity, but they quickly afterripen and consequently are nondormant in late summer and autumn. Some seeds may germinate in late July and August, but most of them germinate in September and/or October. After germination, overwintering rosettes are produced. Age of plants when they first flower in the field is unknown, but in a nonheated greenhouse plants from seeds that germinated in autumn flowered, set seeds and formed tubers the following spring. Each tuber has a terminal bud which gives rise to the shoot. These nondormant buds grow slowly, even at optimal daily thermoperiods (30/15 and 20/10 C) in continuously moist soil. In the cedar glades, some shoots may emerge in July and August and produce seeds and tubers in autumn, but most of them do not emerge until September or October. These autumn-emerging plants form rosettes and overwinter in this condition. During winter the tubers decay, and in spring plants flower, set seeds and form new tubers.
10.2307/2996883|Human set fires beginning in the mid 1800s and repeated insect outbreaks of western spruce budworm (Choristoneura occidentalis Free.) and Douglas-fir bark beetle (Dendroctonus pseudotsugae Hopk.) during the past 50 years have resulted in a dramatic change in the montane (<ca. 2900 m) forest landscape of the Colorado Front Range. Here, I examine the historical and spatial relationship between these disturbance agents and topography using stand structure and dendroecological data from 38 contiguous stands. These data suggest that aspect and relief are important factors determining the spatial and temporal patterns of disturbance, succession, and rates of stand development. The rate of postfire stand development and hence, subsequent stand susceptibility to insect outbreaks appears to be related to aspect. North-facing stands experience rapid postfire development and greater susceptibility to insect attack due to higher host tree densities, larger mean tree size, and a more uniform distribution of host trees over larger contiguous areas. Postfire stand recovery on south facing slopes appears to be slower and stand susceptibility to insect attack is less due to lower host densities, smaller mean tree size, and a less uniform distribution of host trees over smaller areas. Relief, independent of aspect, enhances the structural diversity of the forest landscape by promoting irregular burn patterns and intensities, thus creating a fire-induced mosaic of different aged stands. As these different aged stands continue to grow older, they reach a stage of development susceptible to insect outbreaks at different times. As a result, insect-induced changes in the structural characteristics of the current landscape emulate fire-induced landscape patterns that developed largely due to human activities beginning in the 1860s.
10.2307/2483263|Sparkle strawberry plants were given 0, 100, 500 and 1000r per day of gamma irradiation for 42 days and then subjected to various numbers of short-day inductive cycles. Following short-day treatments, methanol extracts of the plant crowns were chromatographed and auxin levels were determined by the Avena first internode assay method. Irradiation at 1000r/day resulted in an initial decrease in auxin levels, but recovery was complete 7 days after treatment. Auxin levels were less influenced by short-photoperiod treatment in plants previously subjected to high irradiation dosages. Plants irradiated at 500r/day required a greater number of consecutive short-day cycles for floral induction to occur than did the control and 100r/day treatment. Plants given 1000r/day failed to flower regardless of the number of photocycles given. A suppression of vegetative growth was observed in all the irradiated plants and could not be correlated with auxin content.
10.2307/2484140|The root system of tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Shreb.) was sampled with an hydraulic soil corer at three locations in North Carolina during the spring, summer, and fall of 1972. Although these locations were characterized primarily by differences in soils, root biomass based on collections at depths down to 165 cm did not differ significantly between locations. Significant seasonal differences in root biomass were observed to soil depths of 45 cm. At greater depths, seasonal fluctuations in soil temperature and moisture seemed no longer of intensity sufficient to affect root production. Vertical analysis of fescue roots reveals that root weight decreases with depth in an exponential manner. The first 30 cm of soil contained an average of 92% of all harvested roots, while 98% of the mass occurred in the upper 75 cm. The latter depth is recommended for sampling perennial grass root systems in soils with properties similar to the ones described.
10.2307/2483735|The present range of Alangium embraces parts of Asia, Africa, and certain islands of the Pacific and Indian Oceans. The fossil record, including pollen and fruit remains as well as some hotly debated leaf impressions, shows that one of the subgeneric sections, sect. Marlea, extended into Europe and North America during much of the Cenozoic era. European paleobotanists now tend to assign their Alangium-like leaf impressions to Sterculiaceae; however, most pollen and fruit remains undoubtedly belong to Alangium. Fossil fruits from the brown coal of Brandon, Vermont, and almost identical fruits from the brown coal of Salzhausen, Germany, resemble fruits of A. platanifolium, the modern species most tolerant of severe winter conditions. In marked contrast, fossil pollen grains from Vermont and from Germany compare quite closely with pollen of A. kurzii, which now ranges from warm-temperate to tropical regions of southeast Asia. An appendix provides details of pollen morphology for Alangium species in the Harvard Pollen Collection.
10.2307/2483734|A fossil plant compression specimen is described that consists of a nonlaminate, pinnate branch system bearing terminal synangia. The synangia are about 2 mm long and consist of four sporangia each of which includes about 400 spores. The fossil seems to be most closely related to certain species of Zeilleria and is tentatively regarded as the microsporangiate organ of a pteridosperm.
10.2307/2997197|After an extensive review of the literature on vegetation classification, this paper introduces a physiognomically-based, partially new nomenclature for the latitudinal zones of forests in eastern North America. These nomenclatural changes are necessary for a critical application to eastern North America of the worldwide H. Walter Zonobiome system. The presently most widely accepted system of forest nomenclature applied to eastern North America is that of E. Lucy Braun. Her nomenclature is partially inconsistent with Walter's categories. It is internally inconsistent in the mixing of taxonomic and physiognomic terminology, and inconsistent in basing nomenclature of one major forest type on edaphic vegetation. The names proposed in the present paper are consistent with the Walter system, based, as they are, on vegetational criteria. The names are: Semi-deciduous Tropical [Flora] Forest Zone (tip of peninsular Florida to the Keys); Temperate [Madrean-Tethyan Flora] Broadleaved Evergreen Forest Zone (southeastern United States); Deciduous [Broadleaved] Dicotyledonous/Evergreen [Broadleaved] Dicotyledonous/[Needleleaved] Coniferous Forest Zone (southeastern U.S.)-the Southeastern Evergreen Forest Region of Braun; Deciduous [Broadleaved] Dicotyledonous Forest Zone (eastcentral U.S.)-the Central Hardwoods regional complex of Braun's Deciduous Forest; [Needleleaved] Coniferous/Deciduous [Broadleaved] Dicotyledonous Forest Zone (northeastern North America) - the Hemlock-White Pine-Northern Hardwoods Region of Braun; and Boreal [Needleleaved] Coniferous Forest Zone (northern North America) - the Boreal or Spruce-Fir Formation of Braun. The last four types are dominated by the Boreal Flora. Using the Bailey system of bioclimatology, the annual ranges of warmth (W, ET) decrease in the following order of forest types: Semi-deciduous Tropical, Temperate Broadleaved Evergreen, Deciduous Dicot/Evergreen Dicot/Conifer, Deciduous, Conifer/Deciduous Dicot, and Boreal Conifer. The Semideciduous Tropical Forest exists in a climate that is essentially frost-free. Of the next two types, both characterized by evergreen angiospermous trees, the climate of the Temperate Broadleaved Evergreen Forest is lower in frost. Length and, especially, warmth of summer correlate with geographic limits of Deciduous Forest, Conifer/Deciduous Dicot Forest, and Boreal Conifer Forest.
10.2307/2483043|Observations on P. taeda seedlings grown from seed indicate that the change from needle-like primary to scale-like primary leaves may occur in the second or third growing season and may be either an abrupt or gradual phenomenon. For a period of time after the transition to scale-like leaves, factors controlling the form of the primary leaf are relatively unstable and may be tiped toward the production of either form by environmental factors. In young or old plants, injuries to terminal buds and spur shoots may result in the production of needle-like primaries by plants formerly producting scale-like primaries. The evidence suggests that substances originating in spur shoots may control, to some degree, ontogenetic characteristics of the long shoot. The rooting ability of cuttings is partially correlated with the form of the primary leaf. Both rooting ability and form of the primary leaf are controlled by something other than a threshold phenomenon. It is proposed that ontogeny in Pinus can be broken conveniently into three phases: juvenile, intermediate, and adult
10.2307/2484298|Microscopic examination of cambial strips from Prosopis spicigera L., obtained from shoot axes of varying circumference, revealed that the cambium keeps pace with the growing girth of the axes. The component initials of the cambium undergo variations in size and number. During this time, the fusiform initials first exhibit a gradual increase and then a decrease in size, while the ray initials mainly undergo multiplication. The relative proportion of one type of initials to the other also varies in axes of varying girth.
10.2307/2481899|A developmental morphological analysis of the mutant "corn grass" reveals the differences between it and normal corn to be due to a different pattern of shoot apical meristem activity. Corn grass shoot apical meristems differ from those of normal corn in volume, in the rate of leaf primordium formation and the rate of stem tissue formation. Corn grass develops, in general, more rapidly than does normal corn. Corn grass appears to be more sensitive in its morphological responses to temperature and/or light factors than is normal corn. The significance of the production of major differences by single gene mutation is highlighted by this corn grass mutation.
10.2307/2483563|Aquamortierella elegans is described as the typespecies of a new genus of aquatic fungi in the Mortierellaceae.
10.2307/2482641|1. For comparison with the growth habits of tropical marine fungi, five species of fungi were cultivated in a graded series of saline media at temperatures ranging from 6
10.2307/2997089|Seed banks were examined for a chronosequence of five stands in order to characterize changes with succession. Species richness, species diversity, and density of seed banks generally decreased with successional age. Also, percentages of both annuals and biennials (including short-lived perennials) in the seed bank flora and in seed density generally decreased. In contrast, perennial herbs increased and woody plants were absent in the youngest two stands and present in the older stands where they exhibited no significant differences. These trends are related to successional changes in the proportions of life-history types in the vegetation that are associated with decreases in seed production and longevity and increases in susceptibility to seed predation.
10.2307/2996946|This flora is based on the collections made by the authors from June 1987 to July 1990. Altogether 525 vascular plant species in 302 genera and 106 families are here reported. The largest families are Asteraceae (62 species) and Poaceae (55 species), and the largest genera are Carex, Solidago and Aster. One hundred thirty-four species are non-native to the United States.
10.2307/2996522|Old field succession has not received the attention in the Coastal Plain that it has in the Piedmont. We studied 19 stands 20 to 99+ years old using the point-centered quarter method for trees and for saplings and 1 m radius circles for seedlings. Loblolly pine (Pinus taeda) is the overwhelmingly dominant first tree invader of these old fields. Sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua) is the most important early hardwood invader, but its understory importance under pine does not translate into overstory importance, presumably because of heavy mortality. White oak (Quercus alba) becomes the first post-pine dominant. In the oldest stands, beech (Fagus grandifolia) is the leading dominant. Though still an important co-dominant in such stands, white oak is not important in the sapling layer, so it may not persist in the future. Virginia pine (Pinus virginiana) is very rare in old field stands, though fairly common in post-timbering succession. In a few sites tuliptree (Liriodendron tulipifera) invades old field stands simultaneously with sweetgum and equals it in importance, but high abundance of tuliptree in the area results from abundant invasion after timbering disturbance rather than a major role in post-cultivation succession. Southern red oak (Quercus falcata) reproduces in the late pine stage but persists in the white oak-dominated stands only as a canopy relict. Hickories (Carya spp.) are present throughout the sere but are never structurally important. The endpoint of old field succession in this area is not oak-hickory; it bears a clear resemblance to the beech- and white oak-rich Southern Mixed Hardwood Forest of areas further south.
10.2307/2482629|1. The existence of plasmodesmata between the embryonic leaf cells of Cibotium chamissoi has been demonstrated with the electron microscope. 2. The plasmodesmata in the cell walls of the embryonic leaves have a diameter of 260-400 . The diameter of the plasmodesma in the cell wall of the mature leaf is approximately 0.15 . 3. The average number of plasmodesmata of the cell wall of the meristematic cell in the embryonic leaf is 150 per 100 
10.2307/2483954|The three taxa designated as Scorpiurus muricatus L., S. sulcatus L. and S. subvillosus L. were investigated. Study of herbarium specimens, wild plants, and specimens grown in experimental plots indicated that the accepted specific delimitations were not based on sound taxonomic characters. Diagnostic pod characters attributed to the S. muricatus complex were shown to overlap even within a single specimen. It was not possible to find any morphological characters which showed constant association with any of the pod characters investigated. All taxa have the same chromosome number (2n = 28). Plants studied were selfers and there was no indication of any genetic crossing barrier between different taxa. It is suggested that all taxa should be considered as one species, S. muricatus L. s.l., with two varieties.
10.2307/2484734|Geissoloma marginatum, sole species of Geissolomataceae and a shrub endemic to a restricted portion of Cape Province, South Africa, has not been described hitherto with respect to most details of wood anatomy. Quantitative and qualitative data for both aboveground and belowground stems show a strong degree of correlation between the primitive features of this wood and the mesic habitats Geissoloma tends to occupy. Geissoloma is interpreted as a relict genus; wood anatomy offers a few features suggestive of relationships. There is little similarity to Myrtales, Thymelaeaceae, Celastraceae, Oleaceae, or Salvadoraceae. Instead, close similarities to wood of Grubbiaceae, Bruniaceae, and, more distantly, certain families of Rosales and Hamamelidales can be cited.
10.2307/2996181|Differential utilization of a limiting resource has been hypothesized as the mechanism through which ponderosa and sugar pine are maintained over an elevational gradient on the western slopes of the Sierra Nevada. However, comparisons of the size (age) structures of ponderosa and sugar pine populations growing under the canopies of large individuals of these two species suggests that sugar pine is slowly replacing ponderosa pine in the forest tree community. Coexistence of these two species is maintained by disturbance which opens up new microsites for the establishment of ponderosa pine. The numbers of other coniferous species occurring under the canopies of ponderosa and sugar pines suggest that both species of pine would become a relatively minor element in the canopy should disturbance be minimized or eliminated entirely.
10.2307/2484182|Canopy composition and relative species importance were determined for a suburban forest near Atlanta. In addition, aboveground biomass (356 t/ha), net annual aboveground productivity (1140 g/m
10.2307/2996429|Direct and indirect gradient analysis techniques were employed to quantify the relationships between vegetation and environment in a valley-basin swamp forest in central New York State It was hypothesized that soil drainage, as indicated by water table position, would be the most important environmental factor ordering vegetation in the swamp, with a secondary influence by site quality as influenced by spatial position with respect to surface and groundwater inflow The direct gradient analysis, based upon weekly measurements of water table height, sorted the site into five drainage classes and clearly demonstrated the primary control on woody vegetation distribution However, the indirect gradient analysis, based upon overstory and ground vegetation composition, was more successful in sorting the vegetation into meaningful communities The overstory vegetation was divided into an upland community occurring on inceptisol, and three swamp communities on histosol (hemlock swamp, and white pine and larch phases of a mixed conifer-red maple swamp) The ground vegetation subdivided the mixed coniferred maple swamp into four communities named for indicator species Environmental correlation suggested that these divisions were largely the result of site quality differences as influenced by proximity to mineral-rich inflow The ground vegetation communities were more clearly separated in the ordination space than the overstory, and were more highly correlated with mean depth of water table, ash content and bulk density of peat Thus, the gradient analyses supported the hypothesis of environmental control of vegetation distribution Finally, the high species richness (272 vascular plants) resulted from high microsite heterogeneity, the complex hydrology of the basin, and the mixing of boreal relict vegetation with temperate swamp species typical of the region
10.2307/2483691|A freshwater plankton sample was placed in sea-water medium (33.8 per mil). After one year Chroococcus dispersus, Melosira islandica, and Tetraedron-like stages of Oocystis submarina (?) survived. After transfer of these organisms into soilwater-extract medium (.03 per mil) a change in the morphology of the Oocystis produced a species identification of O. lacustris (?).
10.2307/2484373|Dubautia Nagatae is separated from D. Knudsenii on the basis of morphological differences in the peduncle, pedicels, phyllaries, flower color, corolla size, achene size, pappus size, and leaf pubescence.
10.2307/2483415|Chromosome counting in mitotic divisions of the antheridial filaments in the genus Tolypella (Characeae) was facilitated by a pretreatment of the antheridia with colchicine. Chromosome number in the monecious species, T. intertexta from New York and T. prolifera from Indiana, and the dioecious species T. hispanica var. porteri from Wyoming was determined to be n=11.
10.2307/2996791|A critical stage in the life cycle of flowering plants occurs during pollen germination and pollen tube growth. When pollen tubes outnumber available ovules, competition among pollen grains occurs. Under such conditions, it has been suggested that an increase in progeny fitness may occur. In Silene latifolia Poiret (Caryophyllaceae), the adaxial surface of the long styles is receptive to pollen germination. As a result, the intensity of pollen competition can be manipulated by placing pollen at various distances from the ovary. We performed an experiment in which we placed excess pollen at one of two distances from the ovary. We then compared seed, seedling, and adult characters of the progeny resulting from these two treatments. Pollen placement had a statistically significant effect on adult sex ratio, with progeny resulting from more intense pollen competition containing a statistical excess of males, and progeny resulting from less intense competition containing a nonsignificant excess of females. Pollen placement did not have a statistically significant effect on any of seven measures of offspring quality (seed number per fruit, mean seed mass, seedling emergence time, cotyledon area after two weeks, leaf area after four weeks, above-ground dry weight after six weeks, and days required to flower). Since one of our dependent variables (seedling emergence time) was found to be significantly affected by pollen competition in an earlier study, it appears that such traits may be as much influenced by parental, environmental, or population-level effects as by pollen competition.
10.2307/2484525|Deshpandiella jambolana (Ramakr. et al.) n. gen., n. comb. (Diaporthaceae), an ascomycete causing a leaf spot of Eugenia cuminii (L.) Druce (Syzygium jambolanum [Lamk.] DC.), in Coorg Forests, Mysore State, India, was previously described as Didymosphaeria jambolana Ramakr. et al. (= Plagiostigme jambolana [Ramakr. et al.] Ullasa) and as Plagiostigme deodikarii Ananth.
10.2307/2481884|1. All roots of wild Kalmia latifolia examined showed the presence of mycorrhizal fungus both endotrophic and ectotrophic. 2. The mycorrhizal associate has been isolated and grown on a synthetic medium. 3. Sterile seedlings have been grown through early stages in a synthetic medium enriched with sucrose and growth substances. 4. The sterile seedlings when combined with the fungal associate on a minimal medium rapidly outgrew controls as well as seedlings of a comparable age which survive in nursery beds. 5. The results suggest the possibility of perfecting a culture technique for Kalmia latifolia comparable with the technique commonly employed for orchids.
10.2307/2483703|A survey of the chromosome morphology of nine native populations (three species) of Tradescantia collected from one of the granite outcrops (Mt. Arabia) near Atlanta, Georgia, was made. The environment in this area shows a relatively high level of naturally occurring radioactivity (0.25 mr/hr. at the exposed surface). The purpose of this study was to determine if this level of radioactivity would produce chromosomal aberrations in Tradescantia-aberrations that might eventually result in an aberrant chromosome complement for an entire population. Such a population would be very useful since the individual chromosome types might be more easily recognized. Measurements of the individual chromosomes for each population are given, and comparisons are made with a similar study which included 18 populations of Tradescantia collected from the Mobile, Alabama, area. No significant variations in chromosome morphology were observed in the populations collected from the granite outcrop, nor were there any significant differences between these populations and those collected from the Mobile, Alabama, area.
10.2307/2484007|Long-term pure cultures of calli of various angiosperms were grown in mixed cultures. The two components in a mixture always belonged to different genera or families. Histologically, there were three different patterns in the mixtures: (1) each component produced tissue masses with very little mutual contact, or (2) each component's masses were separated by a densely-staining barrier, or (3) they were immediately adjacent to each other, obviously with walls united. No fusions of protoplasts of the different components were seen. When buds or roots were produced, they always derived from only one component, and no chimeras occurred. In some mixtures there were either unilateral or reciprocal cytological effects upon the component tissues which are interpreted as homoiogenetic inductions. Experiments, to be reported later, indicate that there is a biochemical basis for the putative homoiogenetic induction, and in turn, that there are reciprocal biochemical transformations in the mixed tissues.
10.2307/2483989|Field, greenhouse, and laboratory studies were made of the habitat, distribution, morphology, life history, chromosome numbers, genetic relationships, and reproductive systems of four species of Arenaria in the southeastern United States: A. groenlandica, A. glabra, A. uniflora, and an undescribed species from Alabama. The last three are characteristic of the granitic flat-rocks in the Southeast; A. groenlandica is montane and arctic-alpine in distribution. A. glabra and A. groenlandica are similar morphologically, and both have n = 10 chromosomes, but differ in several important ways: A. glabra is a winter annual and its seeds require after-ripening before germination; A. groenlandica is a perennial, and its seeds do not require after-ripening. A genetic barrier to hybridization has been developed. A. uniflora differs from A. glabra and A. groenlandica in its n = 7 chromosomes and in characteristics of the flower and seed. The new Alabaman species is similar to A. uniflora and is closely related to it; crosses between the two result in reduced seed set. The undescribed Alabaman species is largely self-pollinated, but the other species are protandrous and adapted for outcrossing.
10.2307/2483750|Certain aspects of flower and seed development of a tropical orchid Bromheadia finlaysoniana are described. The organogeny of floral parts is acropetal. The gynostaegium and pollinia are organised after the formation of perianth lobes, followed by the inferior ovary. The anther wall is massive and at maturity all the cells except those of epidermis develop fibrous thickenings. At the time of shedding each of the four pollen cells is binucleate within the compound pollen grain. Pollen germination is observed. Embryo sac development is according to the polygonum type. The primary endosperm nucleus degenerates or rarely divides to form two nuclei which also degenerate subsequently, and thus the seed is non-endospermic. Embryo development is described. Flowers were hand pollinated to determine the period involved between pollination, fertilization, seed and fruit development. Fertilization takes place four weeks after pollination and the mature seed is formed four weeks after fertilization. Present observations are compared with previous literature.
10.2307/2484191|Codium fragile (Suringar) Hariot subsp. tomentosoides (van Goor) Silva was found at Black Point Landing, Assateague Channel ca. 2.5 km south of Chincoteague, Va. on 11 May 1976 This is believed to be the southernmost point of distribution along the Atlantic sea board reported to date for the species.
10.2307/2482070|1. The meiotic behavior of hexaploid orchard grass was studied and compared with the behavior of tetraploid progenies carrying a reciprocal translocation and with the meiotic behavior of tetraploids as reported elsewhere. 2. Correlation coefficients calculated for meiotic irregularities, in the hexaploids indicated that the pattern of irregularity was similar to that of tetraploids, especially inbreds which show a high degree of irregularity. 3. Precocious disjunction is suggested as a factor influencing meiotic regularity. 4. The percentage of aneuploidy in the hexaploid progenies ranged from 0 to 33 per cent, while approximately 11 per cent of the plants examined resulted from intercrossing with adjacent tetraploids.
10.2307/2996777|We measured stem growth and recruitment in three populations of Clethra alnifolia established in wetland forests, in canopy gaps, and in a recently cleared powerline right-of-way (ROW) to assess the ways in which C. alnifolia responded to canopy disturbance. Seasonal growth and density of stems and flowering rates were greater in canopy gaps, although greater overall recruitment occurred in the closed canopy forest. Total stem density, extension growth, and flowering significantly increased in the ROW and were directly related to distance from the ROW edge. Seedling density and new stem recruitment also increased significantly in the disturbed area. Clethra alnifolia demonstrated a "light flexible" response to canopy disturbance, regenerating established populations in the forest primarily through vegetative reproduction and producing greater stem density and aerial cover under disturbed canopies, but requiring significant or long-term canopy disruption to initiate increased sexual reproduction.
10.2307/2996760|Seedfall and seedling recruitment was assessed in spruce-fir forests of the Great Smoky Mountains (Tennessee and North Carolina) from 1985 to 1990. A permanent system of 66 plots was measured including overstory, understory, and seedling strata with seedtraps located at a third of the plots. Fraser fir (Abies fraseri (Pursh) Poir.) seed production was highest in 1987 when almost two and a half million seeds per hectare were collected at the highest elevations (1980 + m). In other collection years fir production ranged from 300,000 to 500,000 seeds/ha, with the exception of 1990 (complete seed failure). Red spruce (Picea rubens Sarg.) seed production was highest at lower elevations. The majority of fir (88-100%) and spruce (54-100%) seeds were empty. Spruce seed viability was highest in 1987 and increased with decreasing elevation (18-41%) while fir seed viability in that year was lower (6-9%). Spruce and hardwood germinal (< 1 year) and seedling (1 year to 1.37 m) densities tended to decrease with increasing elevation while fir germinal counts increased at higher elevations. No fir germinals were found in 1989 or 1990. Spruce seedling and understory densities were greatest at 1675 m elevation. Stem densities (seedlings, understory, and overstory) tended to decrease with increasing size with the exception of red spruce at 1525 and 1980 m elevation classes where understory densities were less than overstory densities.
10.2307/2996816|The Flora of Fire Island contains over 400 taxa found growing without cultivation. Each taxonomic entry is accompanied by an annotation which describes the taxon's abundance, soil moisture requirements, associated habitat and the flowering period. Distribution is noted for taxa which are rare or restricted to specific locations.
10.2307/2996216|The vegetation of a bog surrounding Little Cedar Pond in southeastern New York was quantified using phytosociological methods in a belt transect and quadrats established along two transects The bog forest is a homogeneous stand of southern white cedar (Chamaecyparis thyoides) The bog mat is characterized by leatherleaf (Chamaedaphne calyculata) as the dominant bog shrub with significant amounts of sheep laurel (Kalmia angustifolia) and dangleberry (Gaylussacia frondosa)
10.2307/2484063|Large inclusion-containing cells from calli of the fifth transfer (which was the last growth period in which virus could be detected) divided asymmetrically. During the division, the hexagonal crystals of virus disappeared, and the X-bodies were dispersed. One derivative of the division was small, lens-shaped, had dense cytoplasm, small vacuoles, and a normal-appearing nucleus. The other derivative was the remainder of the original cell, and was large, highly vacuolate, with many transvacuolar strands of cytoplasm, sometimes re-aggregated X-bodies, and a highly light-absorbing nucleus which probably contained much virus. This large derivative never divided again. The small derivative, however, divided repeatedly during the observation period and produced a mass of meristematic tissue which appeared to be free of virus. It is suggested that this new putatively virus-free tissue arose from a differential division of a virus-infected cell. This differential division appeared to produce derivatives that differed not only in form and cytology, but also in virus content, and is interpreted as a source of the healthy tissue that became an increasing proportion of the callus from the first through the fifth growth periods.
10.2307/2995998|The crown load required to bend over understory treelets was measured in a tropical lowland forest of northeastern Costa Rica. The study provided the first direct measure of margins of safety against elastic instability in trees. Doubling or tripling the initial crown weight caused substantial bending in adults of three understory species. These results were interpreted as indicating that actual trunk diameters were only 1.3-1.4x the minimum diameter required to prevent instability. Saplings of two overstory species also had low stability safety factors, but had lower ratios of crown mass to trunk mass than did the understory species. Higher safety factors were measured in treelets of an open field species Low safety factors allow understory plants to attain greater height for a given support cost, but mechanical failure is more likely to occur Evidence of past instability was noted in two of the understory species The observed stability safety factors were lower than those reported for canopy trees which are subject to additional wind forces
10.2307/2996435|Distinct distributional variation in woody bottomland vegetation occurs in the upstream or headward direction Distributional patterns of several bottomland species were related to fluvial landforms and stream order in the Massanutten Mountain area of northwestern Virginia Species presence or absence was mapped along streams from high-order rivers to first-order basin heads Distributional trends were checked for relation to geomorphic characteristics including landform, basin area, stream order, and channel gradient Flood plains and their characteristic species (Juglans nigra, Ulmus americana, Carya cordiformis, Acer saccarhinum, Celtis occidentalis) are restricted upstream above gradients exceeding 0 150 Channel shelves (bank features) and their characteristic species (Alnus serrulata, Ilex verticilata, Hamamelis virginiana, Lindera benzoin) are particularly well developed along high-gradient reaches and may persist nearly to basin heads Some channel-shelf species are limited above reaches where the upland forest canopy closes over the channel Stream order and landform type are significantly related to species distribution Channel gradient strongly affects channel morphology and, thus, species distribution
10.2307/2996542|Actaea rubra and A pachypoda are pollinated by mating and foraging beetles in northern Michigan, and the latter also by solitary bees and syrphid flies While both species are facultatively autogamous, morphological and temporal features suggest that A pachypoda is adapted for a higher degree of outbreeding. The Eurasian A erythrocarpa is considered to be synonomous with A rubra In Finland, loss of beetle-attracting fragrance and possible facultative apomixis suggests local adaptation to insecure pollinator supplies
10.2307/2482003|1. Helenium Curtisii Gray is one of two spring-flowering representatives of the genus reported in Virginia. It is known only from the vicinity of Raleigh, North Carolina, and from near Williamsburg, Virginia; both the Virginia and the North Carolina stations are in danger of complete destruction. 2. The species has a 2n-number of 28 chromosomes, an n-number of 14. Helenium autumnale has been reported to have a 2n-number of 34.
10.2307/2482613|Analysis of 3200 oospores taken from clonal cultures of six species of Chara how that under different cultural condition oospores from the same genetic stock may vary widely in length/width ratio. A re-evaluation of oospore size, especially as it applies to the differentiation of infraspecific categories, is advised.
10.2307/2482236|1. Recent studies of the problematic Hawaiian fern genus Diellia indicate that it is neither lindsaeoid nor davallioid in affinity as had been previously believed. Present evidence indicates that this genus is instead a relative of the genus Asplenium and is derived by the evolution of marginal sori and secondary commissural veinlets specifically from the group of "black-stemmed" rock spleenworts typified by A. Trichomanes. 2. No individual member of the latter group, however, has heretofore been reported which suggests a specific prototype of Diellia. Described and discussed in detail for the first time here is a previously misinterpreted Hawaiian "black-stemmed" spleenwort, Asplenium leucostegioides Baker, known from only three collections made in 1879 on the island of Maui, an Asplenium which actually does suggest a prototype of Diellia. 3. This species may be distinguished from its presumed immediate relatives in Asplenium by the following ensemble of critical features, all of which it shares, however, with Diellia: robust stipes and early decay of old rachises; abundance and persistence of fibrils and glandular hairs along the rachis; large and conspicuous clathrate paleae; sessile or adnate pinnae; truncate basal margins of the pinnae; entire laminar margins which may be straight or undulate; much-reduced basal pinnae; short sori, with the indusia in full-sized fronds usually only three times as long as broad; darkly pigmented spores; 2-celled gametophytic hairs of characteristic structure; young sporophytes with early leaf stages of unusually large size, and appearance of sori when there are as few as 5 pinna pairs. 4. The present facts do not indicate that this fern is an intergeneric hybrid of Asplenium and Diellia, or that it is a mutation of Diellia; it appears to be a normal species. Of its features, the large cell sizes found in sporophytic and gametophytic tissues, and the somewhat twisted, apparently only slightly ridged rachises, seem to be somewhat unique. The interesting phylogenetic implications of Asplenium leucostegioides make it desirable that efforts be made to re-locate and study this fern in nature.
10.2307/2483355|Gametic chromosome numbers are reported for 52 taxa of the Compositae. First counts are reported for several species of Compositae from the southeastern United States and for several species of Vernonia (Compositae) from North America and from Africa. Some suggestions are made regarding possible cytotaxonomic trends in both Old and New World species of Vernonia.
10.2307/2483039|Light intensity had several important noticeable effects upon the herbaceous layer in a pine-spruce-fir forest in northern Minnesota. Many of the herbs responded to increased light, up to the maximum recorded in the stand, by markedly increasing the percentage of plants able to flower and fruit. While the rate of productivity was very irregular below 12% full light, it became consistently high above this percentage. Below 12% full light factors other than light are undoubtedly influencing the herbaceous layer to a great extent. In both reproduction and productivity, the rate of the increase was about three times with four and one half times the amount of light. The percentage of plants reproducing and the relative productivity seem to be indices of the amount of light reaching the herbaceous layer. There appears to be a wide range in shade tolerance of the various species, with many of the woodland herbs unable to complete their life cycles in dense shade. The more tolerant species are more often dominant in the dense shade and some of these can flower and fruit with as little as 5% full sunlight. Many other species appear to require about double this amount to flower. Although Abies balsamea seedlings can grow well under shady conditions, the paucity of other tree seedlings indicates that many other tree species can not do so. For the most part, the herbaceous layer of the forest consists of species which are not completely adapted to very low light but which are able to carry on photosynthesis somewhat above the compensation point, thus persisting vegetatively on the shaded sites and flowering on sites where gaps in the canopy allow light to enter.
10.2307/2484874|Media prepared with redistilled water which had been stored in polyethylene bottles never used for storing anything else was injurious for the growth of excised roots of Bryophyllum calycinum grown in glass. The toxic material was at least in part non-volatile and thermostable. In experiments in which plastic containers are used the effect of the plastic on the particular biological material should be examined for each stage in the experimental procedure where the plastic is used.
10.2307/2484338|Using the Braun-Blanquet releve method, this study documents the composition and soil profiles of three of the most mesic of the eight plant communities occurring on the Napeague Dunes, east of Amagansett, (Suffolk Co.) N.Y. Differentiation, both between and within communities, is related to the depth of the water table: in the pine forests, depth to water table is greater than 60 cm; in the tall shrub thickets, the median depth is 52 cm; in the cranberry bogs, the median depth is 16.5 cm. There is indirect evidence for autogenic succession from cranberry bog to tall shrub thicket. Succession from either of the latter to pine forest appears to require allogenic causes, such as sand burial from the the surrounding dunes. Floristically, the communities are more similar to those on the dunes at Cape Cod, Massachusetts, than to those on the barrier islands off the coast of New Jersey.
10.2307/2996368|Orchid flowers representing a diversity of specieswithin that family were stained in vivo with neutral red for presumptive evidence of the presence of fragrance glands (osmophores). Additional floral material was embedded in epoxy resin, sectioned, and stained with sudan black B or methylene blue-azure II-basic fuchsin for microscopic examination of tissue with presumed involvement in fragrance production. Sudan black B stained the vacuoles in most of the presumptive osmophoric floral tissue. Neutral red was seen as a precipitate in the vacuoles of epoxy-embedded, sectioned tissue. Neutral red and sudan black B both may have an affinity for flavonoids and terpenoids present in the vacuoles of some orchid flowers. Neither staining reaction is considered an absolute indicator of osmophore tissue, but both stains are useful to establish presumptive evidence for the presence of orchid osmophores. Methylene blue-azure II-basic fuchsin is an effective general stain for this epoxy-embedded tissue, but it is not considered an indicator of orchid osmophores.
10.2307/2482261|1. The prostrate form, Chantransia-stage and sexual shoot of Lemanea australis Atk. have been studied morphologically and cytologically in both the living and fixed and stained condition. The plants used in this study were collected from Richland Creek near Nashville, Tennessee. Herbarium specimens of these plants have been deposited in the Herbarium of Vanderbilt University. 2. The carpospores exhibit a bipolar type of germination pattern, but differ in their germination from other Florideae. 3. The sexual shoot is an outgrowth of the Chantransia-stage. The plants are homothallic; both male and female reproductive organs are borne upon internal, peripheral, generative filaments. 4. The sexual shoot of Lemanea is a complex uniaxial type of plant, which arises by the transverse divisions of an apical cell and further division of its derivatives. 5. Lemanea australis is a diphasic organism whose haploid number of chromosomes is ten. 6. The spermatium is liberated when its nucleus is in prophase, and the division is completed when the spermatium makes contact with the trichogyne. The spermatium appears to have no distinct wall at the time of its liberation, but develops one by the time it makes contact with the trichogyne. 7. The usually bifurcated trichogyne of Lemanea australis has no perceptible nucleus at any stage of development. 8. No auxiliary cells occur in this plant, but there are many nutritive cells produced by the sterile laterals and the gonimoblast filaments. 9. Fertilization occurs in the carpogonium. No evidence of zygotic meiosis has been observed; there is some evidence that meiosis may occur in the primary gonimoblast filaments which are produced directly from the carpogonium by lateral branching. Further study will be required to establish this tentative suggestion. Tetraspores are not formed in Lemanea australis. 10. A distinct placental cell is formed at the base of the cystocarp by the backward migration of cytoplasm and nuclei from some of the central gonimoblast filaments to the carpogonium. 11. The cells of the gonimoblast filaments mature directly into carpospores; development is acropetal. 12. Sterile, elongate paraphyses are produced from the base of the cystocarp late in the growing season. 13. The nucleolus in Lemanea is a dual structure whose outer layer is composed of desoxyribose nucleic acid and whose inner core is Feulgen-negative. The chromosomes are not formed in the nucleolus, but the desoxyribose nucleic acid migrates centrifugally from the surface of the nucleolus to form them during prophase 14. Plastid formation in the carpogonial branch supports the condensation theory of plastid origin, rather than the proplastid or chondriosome theories.
10.2307/2996798|The changing composition and pattern of forests surrounding the Chesapeake Bay are the result of the historical interaction of natural processes and human influences. European settlement in the 17th century and the subsequent incorporation of the Chesapeake into a world economy changed the landscape of the Chesapeake Bay region. In this paper I examine the effects of European land-use practices on the forests surrounding the Chesapeake, by analyzing the record of pollen deposited in estuarine sediments during the last 1300 years. I analyze the patterns of species change and changes in the similarity of the ecological communities at three sites: The Nanticoke River, Magothy River and Furnace Bay. The effects of European settlement were not uniform. In some cases European settlement accentuated differences among sites, while in other cases, settlement diminished these differences and led to a homogenization of the plant communities. The variations seen in the effect of European settlement on the pattern of inter-site similarity depended on the nature of the original plant communities, the specific cultivation practices at the site, and the scale at which the plant communities were examined. At the scale of the entire pollen assemblage, incorporating patterns of forest and non-forest patches, the communities all became more similar to each other. Land clearance for agriculture or charcoal production imposed a similar physical structure on the landscape, one of fragmented forest patches and clearings at all of the sites. This physical structure was manifested in increasing dominance by disturbance-adapted species such as Ambrosia and a decrease in arboreal species such as Quercus and Carya. At the scale of the arboreal pollen, reflecting changes in the remaining forests, areas under the same pattern of land-use showed increased similarity while areas under different land-use showed less. Settlers intensively cultivated tobacco in the Magothy and Nanticoke River sites. The patterns of land-use under this crop system led to an increase in Pinus in the forest patches. The Magothy River site, formerly with low Pinus dominance, became dominated by Pinus and more closely resembled the Nanticoke River site. In contrast, Pinus dominance decreased in Furnace Bay, a region dominated by charcoal production.
10.2307/2483577|Peruvian collections of C. H. Dodson in 1964 have yielded a novelty, A. dodsonii, here described.
10.2307/2484643|Analyses of the leaves of the epiphytes Encyclia tampense and Tillandsia circinata growing on a single population of dwarfed Taxodium ascendens rooted in shallow, seasonally dry soil over calcareous bedrock demonstrate that much greater accumulations of Ca, K, Mg, N and P occur in E. tampense. Only Na is higher in the bromeliad. Several possible explanations for these differences in mineral content are suggested. In a preliminary comparison of two populations of pond cypress which host bromeliad and orchid epiphytes in Florida, dwarfed cypress yielded a more dilute stemflow during midsummer rainstorms and contained smaller quantities of several macronutrients in its outer bark and foliage than did more vigorous Taxodium ascendens on a deeper, permanently inundated substratum. The canopy and trunk of the dwarfed cypress trees, although often heavily infested with vascular epiphytes, may provide insufficient quantities of several macronutrients and thus substantially limit the vigor of vascular epiphytes using these plants as hosts. Such mineral deficiencies may be responsible for the uncommonly low vigor and low fruitfulness reported for T. circinata and the observed small size of E. tampense shoots growing free of debris and tank bromeliad rosettes in the dwarfed pond cypress forests of South Florida compared to other populations of these epiphytes on several other host species.
10.2307/2996047|The vegetation of six low-shrub bogs located near the glacial boundary was quantified using phytosociological methods. Based on pH and Ca ion concentrations, these peatlands were all weakly minerotrophic to ombrotrophic systems. The dominant vascular species were Chamaedaphne calyculata, Decodon verticillatus, Kalmia angustifolia and Vaccinium corymbosum. A number of plant species which are characteristic of northern peatlands and which reach their southern distributional limit in the study region were absent from the low-shrub bogs studied, although Andromeda glaucophylla and Kalmia polifolia were present. Several species were also present in all of the study sites which are not usually found in low-shrub bogs located further north.
10.2307/2483499|The development of sporidia in chains by the rust fungus Ravenelia hobsoni is described in this note. The phenomenon is considered to be in the nature of true proliferation, as the cytoplasmic contents of the primary sporidium are emptied into the secondary sporidium repeating the process. Two important deviations from the normal pattern, namely, the production of secondary sporidia laterally or terminally over the germ tubes and formation of two or three secondary sporidia by the same primary sporidium are reported here for the first time.
10.2307/2483446|Elymus canadensis L., 2n=28, and E. cinereus Scribn. and Merr., 2n=56, crossed readily and yielded 289 hybrid seeds from 350 hand-emasculated florets. Many of the hybrid seedlings were deficient in chlorophyll and died; however, more than 100 survived in the field. Vegetative and spike characteristics of the hybrids strongly resembled those of the E. cinereus pollen parent. The E. canadensis parents behaved cytologically as allotetraploids and consistently formed 14 closed bivalents at metaphase I. Octoploid E. cinereus appears to be an autoallooctoploid of the type AAAABBBB or A
10.2307/2483674|Submerged shoots of Proserpinaca palustris have finely dissected leaves whether grown in long or short photoperiods, while leaves of aerial shoots are dissected in short days but expanded-lanceolate in long days. Shoot habit, internode length, and leaf orientation are also varied in these different environments. High light intensity or elevated temperature may induce aerial leaf shape and shoot morphology in long-day submerged shoots. When a shoot is transferred abruptly to a new environment a series of transitional leaf forms is produced. The number of transitional leaves depends on the number of immature leaves in the bud, which in turn depends on the environment in which the shoot had been growing. Leaf primordia in contrasting environments are identical in form until 500-600 . When the primordia are 500-600  long, five lobe pairs have been initiated in basipetal succession by accelerated cell division at sites along the marginal meristems. At this stage morphological differences become apparent; these involve differential distribution of cell division in lobes and sinus regions. Cell surface replicas revealed only limited differences in cell shape in dissected and expanded aerial leaves. However, in pinnatifid submerged leaves, polar elongation of cells of the lobes and midrib is associated with the larger, more finely dissected leaf form. Further, long-day leaves develop more lobes than short-day leaves, and the rate of leaf development per plastochron is faster in long-day shoots. Heterophylly of amphibious plants is discussed, including possible mechanisms by which the environmental stimulus may regulate the elemental processes of cell division and polar cell expansion which are involved in shaping the leaf.
10.2307/2482799|1. Phyllonoma ruscifolia produces its flowers and fruits in cymes that are outgrowths from the midribs of true leaves. 2. Morphogenetic studies show that the primordium of an inflorescence arises from the leaf meristem and that there is no coalescence between a floral axis and the leaf. The leaves bear stipules and subtend axillary buds. 3. This condition corresponds to that of Helwingia japonica, but probably not to leaf-borne inflorescences of the Dichapetalaceae where various degrees of coalescence prevail.
10.2307/2484337|Three predictions regarding the evolution of components of seed crop production in plants are examined for five species of the Leguminosae displaying a wide range of ecological and life history attributes: 1) For each species, variance in ovule number is significantly less than variance in seed number. 2) Decreased resource availability between sites results in decreased seed number. 3) Plants do not always increase seed crop size in the (apparently) least energetically expensive way. The direct application to plants of conclusions based on studies of clutch size in animals has led to a number of unjustified assumptions concerning the evolution of ovule number and seed number in plants.
10.2307/2481845|1. Mycelia of the aquatic Phycomycete Allomyces javanicus Kniep were grown in agar media containing a dispersion of the chemical carcinogens, 20-methylcholanthrene and 3,4-benzpyrene, in a series of concentrations from 1 to 20 mg. per 100 ml. of medium. 2. When examined by means of phase contrast microscopy, mitochondria were as large, numerous, active and refractive in very high concentrations of carcinogens as they were in the basal medium alone or basal medium plus benzene. 3. In the benzpyrene media, some instances of greatly reduced zoosporangia were noted, but the spores themselves were apparently not affected.
10.2307/2484556|Study in 1978 in six areas of the Mexican Cordilleran Plateau-two in the Sierra Madre Oriental, one on the Coahuila Platform, two in the Basin and Range Province, and one in the Sierra Madre Occidental, provided information about fourteen species of Sedum. The largest number of species, six, was in the area centering on Mt. Cangando near Encarnacion, Hgo. At the other extreme was the Sierra de San Joaquin, south of Nuevo Casas Grandes, Chih, with no species. Two species new to scientific literature are S. globuliflorum, with petals scareely separating at time of anthesis and carpels without styles and sulcate ventrally, on Mt. Cangando; and S latifilamentum, with tuberous roots, erect, slightly connate petals, and carpels similar to those of S. globuliflorum, on Mt. Cangando and nearby. New subspecies are S. parvum ssp. diminutum, with diminutive flowers and elongate leaves, disjunct in the Sierra de la Madera, Coah, and S. wrightii ssp. priscum, with small flowers and leaves, with range from the Sacramento Mts, N. M., southward in the Sierra Madre Oriental, Coah. and N. L. Optimum areas for number of species of Sedum have in common a humid, temperate climate with estimated annual rainfall more than 1,000 mm per year, a mean temperature in the three warmest months of less than 20 C, and a long history in the geological past.
10.2307/2482319|The isolation and identification of one of the blue-flurescing compounds in Avena sativa roots as scopoletin (6-methoxy-7-hydroxy coumarin) is reported. This substance is present in mature portions of five-day-old roots in concentrations in excess of 10 ppm. From three to 18 millimeters behind the root apex, the amount of scopoletin per millimeter of root was found to lie between 0.75 x 10
10.2307/2484280|Pennisetum macrostachyum Benth, is a tetraploid (2n = 68), with a new basic chromosome number n = 17. Microspoiogenesis is normal and 34 bivalents are formed regularly during diakinesis. Meiotic I and II divisions, being normal, lead to the formation of a tetrad of four cells with 97% viable pollen. The hypodermal aichesporial cell functions directly as the megaspore mother cell. Megasporogenesis and embryosae formation are of the monosporic 8-nucleate type. The three antipodal cells by further division give rise to either six to eight nucleate antipodal cells or six to 12 cellular antipodals. In a few embryosacs, the egg divides autonomously and precociously, forming a multicelled embryo, whereas the secondary nucleus remains below the egg or towards the side of the embryo.
10.2307/2482723|1. Male and female grafts of unequal vigor show no influence of one upon the other. 2. Chain grafts consisting of three parts-male, female, male or female, male, female show no sex alteration. 3. Triple grafts-male, female, male or female, male, female yield negative results. 4. Chain grafts-male, female, male or female, male, female also yield negative results.
10.2307/2482190|1. Plant tissues that have been dehydrated may conserve life for long periods, indicating that desiccation itself may not be the cause of death of the protoplasts. Rate of dehydration and rate of restoration of water are found to be critical factors for survival of protoplasts of desiccated tissues. 2. Vegetative tissues conserve life if dehydrated slowly and can be made to tolerate the loss of a large proportion of their water. In extreme cases they may be made to tolerate drying over concentrated sulphuric acid for weeks or even months. They die, however, if dried quickly and if permitted to recover their water quickly. 3. Recovery from repeated plasmolysis and deplasmolysis becomes increasingly difficult and eventually death results when the cells are exposed to change in turgor. 4. In cells that possess large vacuoles, plasmolysis and deplasmolysis cause a greater amount of contraction and swelling of the protoplasts than in cells with small vacuoles. Shrinking and swelling, whether once or more often, may provoke profound disturbances in protoplasmic structure. 5. Different species of plants differ greatly in tolerance to desiccation. Differences in cell size, cell shape, ratio of volume to surface area, and osmotic concentration of sap are correlated with differences in tolerance.
10.2307/2482021|1. The cytological effects of cortisone acetate on Allium were studied. 2. Numerous tetraploid divisions were found in localized groups of cells in the meristem. 3. Many secondary root primordia were present containing numerous tetraploid divisions. 4. Tetraploidy arises, not by c-mitosis nor by a process similar to naphthalene acetic acid action, but by the localized induction of a double chromosome reproduction in the resting nuclei of certain groups of cells.
10.2307/2484220|Leaf size variation with respect to climate was studied at 35 sample sites reported in the literature from the Western Hemisphere. The variation in leaf size was analyzed by plotting the sample sites on Holdridge's (1967) life zone chart and comparing the percentage of species having large leaves (greater than 20.25 sq cm in area) in the different life zones. Four foliar belts were identified in the tropical basal and altitudinal belts. Three of these foliar belts were identified earlier in a field study carried out in Costa Rica (Dolph and Dilcher in press). The fourth foliar belt is not found in Costa Rica because it is confined to very dry basal belt life zones. It was concluded that leaf size cannot be used to identify specific life zones or climates in either extant or fossil floras.
10.2307/2483673|A new variational form of the Oliogocene Astronium truncatum (Lesquereux) MacGinitie with six sepals is discussed and compared to normal pentamerous specimens from southwestern Montana and Colorado.
10.2307/2483796|The study describes ecological variation found in eleven New Jersey populations of Opuntia compressa (Salisb.) Macbr. Ecological and pedological parameters are evaluated and an Importance Value Index was determined for the ecological data. Ecological data indicate that the occurrence of O. compressa is not associated with the presence of any one species or group of species. The soil data indicate no positive correlation between amounts of minerals and the presence of O. compressa.
10.2307/2482194|1. A study of the morphology, karyogamy and meiosis in the rust Coleosporium sidae has been made. 2. There is no catenulation in the formation of the basidial elements. A gelatinous covering is secreted by the probasidia on the outside and toward the sides. The probasidium is formed from a binucleate basidial mother cell following a conjugate division of the nuclei. The two nuclei slightly enlarge in the probasidium and fuse. The prefusion stage is considered similar to leptotene. 3. In zygotene a pairing of the chromosomes takes place and the nucleoli fuse with one another. There are probably nucleolus organizers in this rust. Generally a fusion of the nucleoli takes place in zygotene, but sometimes a nucleolus may degenerate. Towards late zygotene, there is a tendency of the chromosomes to collapse to one side and this is considered to be a synizetic phase. The nucleolus is pressed to one side and becomes vacuolated, the outer rind collapsing into a discoid structure which stains very darkly. 4. At the "phase of elongation" the four-strand stage cannot be recognized, but the chromosomes appear beaded. Instead of contracting, the chromosomes elongate and become slender. The nucleolus is ultimately lost during this stage. 5. In diplotene and diakinesis the chromosomes contract very much. About eight bivalents may be counted at this stage, and eight is believed to represent the haploid number in this rust. The nuclear membrane is lost at this stage and the chromosomes lie in the nuclear vacuole. The spindle is intra-nuclear and the chromosomes become attached to it at various places. The spindle axis may be longitudinal or oblique. The presence of a centrosome is left open to question. 6. The anaphase is brief, at which time the paired chromosomes are believed to disjoin and eight pass to each pole. Astral rays are very long at this stage and sometimes intersect at the middle of the basidium. 7. The cell wall probably arises by a lateral coalescence of vacuoles. 8. There is no resting phase between the first and second meiotic divisions. The spindle of the second division may be oriented in any conceivable manner, and depending upon this orientation the septa are variously arranged. Metaphase and anaphase are similar to the first division except that the spindle is much shorter. 9. One further division takes place in the basidiospore. 10. The possible relationship of this rust with the jelly fungi on the one hand and the Ascomycetes on the other has been discussed. The writer is very grateful to Dr. Lindsay S. Olive of Columbia University, New York City, for reviewing the manuscript. To Prof. P. Maheshwari of the University of Delhi and Dr. R. N. Tandon of the University of Allahabad, the writer owes a debt of gratitude for their constant encouragement and helpful advice. The writer also takes this opportunity to thank Mr. J. S. Agrawal of the Department of Botany for his unfailing help in many ways.
10.2307/2996918|Using trunk heights as a predictor of the ability to produce reproductive structures, the single population of Cycas armstrongii Miq. sampled for this trait appeared to contain a substantial number of "mature" but non-reproductive individuals for the two pollination episodes evident during the period of study. While no estimate of this number was attempted, these observations are consistent with those on other cycads where mature plants may "rest" between successive reproductive episodes. There is no evidence of a difference in size of reproductive females compared with males. The small weevil Ulomoides xamiaphila (Cart.) and an as yet undescribed genus of the subfamily Cossoninae (Curculionidae) were collected from male cones. Their role in the pollination of this cycad, if any, is unclear. Although C. armstrongii has been termed deciduous, leaf fall appears to be irregular within a population and to be accelerated in relatively short plants by fire damage. Leaf fall and production of new leaves after natural or fire-induced defoliation are not synchronized among individuals within a population.
10.2307/2996974|Twenty-one species of Sphagnum are presently known to occur in Delaware. Twelve of these have not previously been reported for Delaware; included in this group are S. flavicomans and S. russowii. Primarily because of the lack of suitable habitats, seventeen species (81% of the total) are rare in the state. Little historical data exist for Sphagnum in Delaware, with most collections having been made since 1960.
10.2307/2995958|Continued work in the Lake Champlain Valley of New York and Vermont has resulted in 22 new stations for rare native or introduced plants, five of which are new northeastern range extensions
10.2307/2996304|Should a platyopuntia expend all aerolar meristems in flower production, no new cladodes could be produced, and further reproductive effort and vegetative growth would cease. To investigate the trade-off between flower and cladode production, the numbers of flowers, fruits, and cladodes were monitored for 4 years on 30 Opuntia engelmannii Salm-Dyck. plants on Tumamoc Hill, Tucson, Arizona. Plant size controlled the number of flowers initiated each spring. The proportion of flowers that developed (i.e., did not abort) was perhaps determined by December-February rainfall in the months before bloom, with more being developed in the wettest years. Models based on different ratios of initiated cladodes to initiated flowers demonstrated that continued high investment in flowers and fruits would eventually terminate reproduction altogether; therefore periods of high sexual reproduction should alternate with periods of high vegetative growth. In the first 3 years of this study, the ratio of new cladodes to initiated flowers was low, showing a high investment in sexual reproduction. As suggested by the model, the population recouped this investment in the fourth year, when the number of new cladodes was nearly 3 times the 1992-1994 mean, and the number of initiated flowers was only 73% of the 3-year mean.
10.2307/2996001|Because the holotype of Tylostoma gracile White is missing, the nature of that species has been a matter of concern to scientists studying the genus A recently collected specimen resembled both Tylostoma gracile and Tylostoma cretaceum Long, and a comparison of the three indicates that they are probably the same species The new collection is designated as the neotype of Tylostoma gracile
10.2307/2483797|By means of paper chromatography, spectrophotometry, and chemical tests, the anthocyanin of autumn leaves of Japanese barberry (Berberis Thunbergii DC) has been identified as cyanidine 3-glucoside.
10.2307/2484448|The response of ground cover vegetation to prescribed fire was evaluated in relation to the life form of individual species. Chamaephytes were most severely affected by fire. Hemicryptophytes varied in their response and geophytes best survived the prescribed burn. One therophyte (Erechtites hieracifolia) appeared only after burning. Within each life form group variability existed in the modes of regeneration and recovery after burning. Individual species tended to demonstrate either (1) a favorable (rapid regeneration through vegetative reproduction, or through the germination of seed), (2) an unfavorable (slow recovery; regeneration slow and incomplete after one growing season following burning) or (3) neutral response (plants unaffected by burning) to fire.
10.2307/2482444|2. The average total chlorophyll content was 1.69 mg./gm. fresh weight, consisting of 1.16 mg./gm. chlorophyll a and 0.53 mg./gm. chlorophyll b. 1. The chlorophyll a and chlorophyll b content of 43 species of ferns and fern allies has been determined by a spectrophotometric method. 3. The percentage of chlorophyll a varied from 62.4 to 72.3 per cent, and averaged 68.6 per cent. 4. The quantities of chlorophylls, and the proportion of chlorophylls a and b in the ferns and fern allies are comparable to those found in higher plants.
10.2307/2483430|Descriptions of the anatomy of mycorrhizae of Acer iubrum L., Fagus grandifolia Ehrh, Ilex opaca Ait., Liquidambar styraciflua L, Liriodendron tulipifera L., Pinus virginiana Mill., Quercus lobata Nee, and Ulmus americana L. are presented along with details of fixing, dehydrating, and staining the specimens. Mycorrhizae of Q. lobata and Liquidambar styraciflua required a different staining procedure than the other specimens. P virginiana, F. grandifolia, and Q. lobata were found to be ectotrophic, while I. opaca, Liriodendron tulipifera, Liquidambar styraciflua, A. rubrum, and U. americana were endotrophic.
10.2307/2997091|Vegetation, seed banks, and post-disturbance vegetation were compared for a chronosequence of five stands in order to interpret succession mechanisms. With increasing stand age, the species composition of vegetation, seed banks, and post-disturbance vegetation generally diverged. Also, vegetation was more similar with post-disturbance vegetation than with seed banks in the forest stages. These findings are related to changes in the proportions of life-history types during succession, which, as noted in other studies, are accompanied by decreases in seed production and viability and increases in vegetative reproduction. No successional stage had a seed bank or post-disturbance vegetation with most of the common species from the undisturbed vegetation of all stages. This and reanalysis of other studies on similar seres document that the "initial floristic composition" model of succession cannot account for all major stages of a successional sequence. Rather, the seeds and vegetative propagules present in old-field communities may be capable of regenerating stages from the pioneer through the age of the community disturbed but not older stages, and forests cannot regenerate a series of old-field stages but are capable of directly regenerating themselves through vegetative reproduction.
10.2307/2484061|Micro- and mega-sporogenesis and gametogenesis are described for Downingia bacigalupii Weiler with comparisons made with two other species of the genus (D. pulchella (Lindl.) Torr. and D. humilis Greene). Microsporogenesis begins when stamens are approximately 1 mm in length and proceeds in a basipetal direction in each sporangium. Delimitation of microspores is simultaneous, resulting in a tetrahedral spore arrangement. In D. bacigalupii, pollen is released in the two-celled condition and division of the generative cell occurs as the pollen tube grows down the style. This feature was not determined for the other two species. The ovules of all three species are anatropous, unitegmic and tenuinucellate with a single, hypodermal archesporial cell which functions directly as the megasporocyte. Meiotic division of the megasporocyte results in the formation of a linear tetrad of megaspores and determination of the chalazal position of the functional megaspore is correlated with inequalities of cytokinesis of the megasporocyte and daughter dyad cells. Embryo-sac development is of the monosporic, Polygonum type and at maturity the megagametophyte is seven-celled, but exhibits early degeneration of its antipodals and pre-fertilization fusion of polar nuclei. Interspecific comparisons of the structure of mature megagametophytes of Downingia reveal marked differences in size which may be of taxonomic significance for the investigated species of this genus.
10.2307/2996658|Seed set was recorded following an artificial pollination program and floral emasculation of cultivated plants of the three floral morphs of the tristylous Decodon verticillatus originating in North Carolina. These manipulations were aimed at determining the possible presence and nature of an incompatibility system associated with tristyly in this species. Legitimate and illegitimate pollinations all resulted in high levels of seed production, indicating that an incompatibility system is absent or vestigial in the plants examined. Emasculated flowers of the three morphs commonly produced seeds, with emasculated Shorts producing as many seeds per flower as legitimately pollinated Shorts. This seed production appears to result from self-pollination prior to anthesis. Vegetative reproduction is also common in this species. A single population sampled in Massachusetts yielded 67 Longs, 47 Mids, and three Shorts.
10.2307/2996991|A standard leaf color classification system was used to describe five progressive stages of autumn senescence for leaves of the deciduous quaking aspen Populus tremuloides Michx. For five years, during the period 1981 to 1989, leaves of each senescence stage, from full green to full yellow, were assayed quantitatively for total chlorophyll, for chlorophylls a and b as well as for the specific activities of malate dehydrogenase, succinate dehydrogenase and fumarate hydratase. As senescence progressed the total chlorophyll decreased by 99%, from a mean of 24.2 mg/g leaf to 0.226 mg/g leaf, whereas the chlorophyll a:b ratio increased during each progressive stage, a condition not reported previously for deciduous species. Senescence was accompanied by large decreases in specific activities of malate dehydrogenase and fumarate hydratase, and by a large increase in K
10.2307/2483508|Thirty-four hand-emasculated A. scribneri rioters exposed to E. junceus pollen yielded three shriveled seeds, two of which germinated and proved to be hybrids. The hybrid plants were morphologically intermediate between the parents but favored A. scribneri in overall appearance. The E. junceus parent, 2n =14, was cytologically regular, as was the tetraploid A. scribneri parent, 2n = 28. No chromosome pairing was observed in the hybrids, 2n = 21. Meiotic cells were unusually scarce in the hybrids and were characterized by atypical cytoplasmic cleavages which gave rise to daughter cells that differed widely in size and chromosome number. The daughter cells developed directly into pollen grains of variable sizes without passing through the wellrecognized quartet stage. All pollen was shriveled and non-staining, and the hybrids were totally sterile. Absence of chromosome pairing in the hybrids indicates that A. scribneri is a strict allotetraploid and that A. scribneri and E. junceus contain no chromosomes in common.
10.2307/2482393|1. The micropylar end of the nucellus of the lima bean is partially disintegrated at the time of flowering. 2. After syngamy, chalazal extension of the embryo sac almost completely obliterates the remainder of the nucellus within a two week period. 3. The endosperm is parietal and free nuclear during the first few days after fertilization. It becomes cellular about the embryo early and remains cellular around this structure during further development. 4. The cellular endosperm is separated from a parietal, free nuclear, chalazal region of endosperm by a membrane, over the cotyledons, which is formed about 10 days after fertilization. 5. The free nuclear endosperm gradually is resorbed as the embryo fills the cavity within the seed coat. 6. Although some endosperm tissue remains distinct in the radicle pocket region of the near-mature seed, the remainder of the cellular endosperm disappears during growth.
10.2307/2484868|Morphological and anatomical studies of seven genera of the grass tribe Oryzeae show those with unisexual flowers to represent two distinct phyletic lines. Members of the new subtribe Luziolinae (Zizaniopsis and Luziola sens. lat.) have a thickened, often loose, pericarp surrounding the seeds, apically exserted styles, embryo formula F+FP, embryos with bilobed, fused epiblasts, and a basic chromosome number of x=12. The fruit is termed an achene rather than a caryopsis. The subtribe Zizaniinae (reduced to one genus, Zizania) has long cylindrical caryopses with fused pericarp, laterally exserted stigmas, embryo formula F+PP, embryos with narrow, free epiblasts and very long scutellums, and a chromosome number of n=15 or 17. Aerenchyma in leaf sheaths of Zizania forms numerous septae, but in Zizaniopsis and Luziola forms amorphous masses. Characteristics of some members of the subtribe Oryzinae having bisexual flowers (Oryza, Leersia, and Porteresia) are compared with those of the other two subtribes. Hydrochloa is placed in synonymy under Luziola.
10.2307/2484592|Eichhornia crassipes exhibits two floral forms: the long- and midstyled forms of a tristylous system. An investigation of these two floral forms revealed the correlation between pollen size and stamen length frequently found in heterostylous taxa and possible indications of a weak self-incompability system. This study supports earlier suggestions that reproduction in this species is almost wholly asexual.
10.2307/2997199|The vascular flora consists of 82 families, 232 genera, and 380 species of which 253 are native. Flowering plants (Division Magnoliophyta or Anthophyta) form the bulk of the station's flora. There are 75 families, 220 genera, and 362 species. Dicots (Class Magnoliatae) account for 64 families, 170 genera, and 281 species. Monocots (Class Liliatae) account for 11 families, 50 genera, and 81 species. There are only 4 conifer (Division Pinophyta) species, in 2 genera, and 2 families. Ferns (Division Polypodiophyta) comprise 4 families, 9 genera, and 11 species. Club-mosses (Division Lycopodophyta) are the only other group of spore-bearing vascular plants present; they comprise 1 family, 1 genus, with 3 species. Twenty-four plants have been designated as rare or threatened in New York State (Clemants 1986; Mitchell 1986).
10.2307/2996541|Rates of mineral element leaching from plants subjected to simulated acid rain were determined for plants from a forest succession Early successional plants were the herbs Erechtites hieracifolia and Erigeron canadensis and the early successional shrub-tree was Robinia pseudo-acacia Later successional species were Pinus strobus, Carya illinoensis, Liriodendron tulipifera, Quercus prinus, Acer rubrum and Cornus florida Simulated rain consisted of deionized water plus a salt and an acid component to produce pH values of 5 5, 4 5, 3 5 and 2 5 Solutions were applied through a raindrop simulator at 0 9 cm/hr for 10 periods of 1 hr each Leachate from the leaves was collected and analyzed for NH
10.2307/2482531|Specimens belonging to the genera Sporocarpon (Williamson) Hutchinson, Dubiocarpon Hutchinson, and Mycocarpon Hutchinson are described from Kansas coal balls from the Pennsylvanian system. Mycocarpon ornatus, M. bimuratus, M. flexus, and Sporocarpon cognatus are described as new species. Sporocarpon asteroides, Dubiocarpon compactum, and Dubiocarpon elegans were also found. The suggested fungal-like nature of these conceptacles is reaffirmed.
10.2307/2484665|Artificial hybridization experiments involving three tropical American species of Ruellia: R. tuberosa, R. nudiflora, and R. brittoniana, have resulted in the formation of a number of strictly cleistogamous species-hybrids in contrast to the normally chasmogamic-cleistogamic parent species. Pollen fertility and fruit formation in the hybrids were low, but were adequate for the production of limited numbers of viable seeds. Although experimental factors affect reproductive patterns in Ruellia, the prevailing reproductive system appears to be under genomic control.
10.2307/2484044|The native Hawaiian flora is analyzed by genera for probable method of arrival of ancestral immigrants, and these data are listed in detail and discussed. Fruit and seed morphology are used as evidence for mode of dispersal interpreted in the light of known dispersal methods. Modes of arrival on the Hawaiian islands are computed as percentages, and similar percentages are presented for angiosperms of other Pacific oceanic islands and archipelagos. These data show that ecology of recipient island is much more important than distance in determining modes of successful transport. On high islands, internal transport by birds is of prime importance, and decreases only slightly with increased distance. On atolls, oceanic drift is of overwhelming importance. Adherence to feathers by barbed or bristly seeds or fruits is of maximum importance on dry volcanic islands. Transport of seeds by air flotation decreases sharply with distance, and thus is responsible for only a few genera on the Hawaiian Islands. To account for floras of oceanic islands, no factors not currently operative seem necessary. Shore birds are cited as a particularly likely vector for transport of fleshy-fruited plant species. Reasons are given for absence of South Pacific drift species in the North Pacific. The great similarity between floras and faunas of the Pacific oceanic islands and those of Mascarene oceanic islands derives from the fact that islands in both the Pacific and Indian oceans have been populated by those groups from Indo-Malaysia capable of long-distance dispersal. The implications of the present data for inter-continental and intracontinental dispersal are discussed, and the implications for hypotheses of continental drift are explored.
10.2307/2482936|Induced morphological mutants of Polysphondylium violaceum were used in an attempt to study the genetics of this species. Heterocytosis occurred in most paired combinations of the different mutant and wild-type cultures. In one case heterocytosis was coupled with synergism. Recombinant types were not recovered. The possible rare occurrence of a sexual event is discussed.
10.2307/2484115|Samples of terricolous cryptogams were collected from strip-mined and unstripped vegetated sites located in a twenty-year-old abandoned surface coal mining area in eastern Ohio. These samples were analyzed by emission spectrophotometry for total P, K, Ca, and Mg content. Vascular cryptogams contained high amounts of K when compared to the other non-fungal species sampled. Mosses, particularly those species collected from non-stripped sites, exhibited relatively high levels of Ca. The terricolous basidiomycetes Clavaria corniculata and Scleroderma citrinum contained the highest levels of P and K, but showed little accumulation of Ca or Mg. Terricolous lichens exhibited low levels of all elements. Nutrient levels of plant species common to both stripped and unstripped vegetated sites were generally higher in those plants from non-stripped areas. The importance of some terricolous cryptogam species with regard to nutrient cycling in areas where essential nutrients may occur in limited quantities is discussed.
10.2307/2996385|Pleuridium venezuelanum is described as a new species from the Andes of Venezuela. Its unique features are the entire-margined lower leaves, capsules that are 550 m long and spores 20-23 m in diameter. Pleuridium mexicanum Card. is considered to be the closest ally of the new species. An older synonym of Cardot's species may be the austral P. nervosum (Hook.) Mitt.
10.2307/2484087|The taxonomic history of Ponthieva racemosa (Walt.) Mohr and Ponthieva brittonae is reviewed. Ponthieva brittonae is reinstated to its proper specific status.
10.2307/2481980|1. Three representatives of Physalis occur in West Africa: P. angulata L. (for five collections, 2n = 48 or n = 24), P. peruviana L. (for one collection, 2n = 48), and P. divaricata (for three collections, 2n = 24 or n = 12). 2. That similar and different chromosome reports are in the literature for P. angulata and P. peruviana is probably indicative of faulty taxonomic determination. These three representatives of Physalis are usually weeds in West Africa, but in some instances plants may be cultivated.
10.2307/2482203|A hitherto unreported primitive plasmodium, Reticulomyxa flosa, has been discovered, which has among others the following characteristics and habits: 1. Aquatic and semiaquatic (fresh water), multiform, white plasmodium, without wall or other permanently formed membrane, remaining fairly stationary while vegetating, surrounded by an intricate network of anastomosing, filose pseudopodia arising from any point on the surface of plasmodium and extending to as much as ten times its diameter in search of food. 2. Protoplasm very active, finely and coarsely granular, undifferentiated into ecto- and endoplasm, multinucleate, vacuoles (noncontractile), not surviving slow desiccation. 3. Streaming in pseudopodia a simultaneous two-way or sleeve-type of flow; in central portion, which is often a thin broad sheet of protoplasm, many lines of flow alternately opposed and irreversible. 4. Plasmodium periodically clears itself of extraneous matter, moves to a new site, and undergoes longitudinal fission, usually resulting in three daughter plasmodia. Mature plasmodia seemingly disperse sporelike bodies when transferred to a fresh container of water, but the nature of reproduction other than by fission only vaguely understood at present. 5. Under water, plasmodial activities arrested both when subjected to lowered temperature and when cultured with certain algae. 6. Similarities to species of Myxomycetes and Foraminifera pointed out. Close affinity with certain species of Proteomyxa strongly suspected.
10.2307/2996757|Typical and anomalous secondary growth are reported in arborescent species of New World Ipomoea (Convolvulaceae). Concentric rings of included phloem derived from successive cambia characterize the anomalous woody growth occurring in L murucoides and related species. Typical secondary growth occurs in I. carnea ssp. fistulosa. Anatomical data provide additional evidence that the arborescent habit in Ipomoea has been derived at least twice through distantly related vining prototypes.
10.2307/2996640|Population dynamics and growth of balsam fir were measured in spruce-fir stands at 900 and 1100 m on Whiteface Mountain in 1985 to characterize the behavior of fir where red spruce decline was evident. The basal area increment of overstory balsam fir was determined using increment core analysis. No synchronous mortality of balsam fir was found at either elevation, and survivorship patterns were similar to those found in an earlier study at low elevation in Ontario. Prior to 1950, greater 5-yr mean basal area increment in all age classes at 1100 m compared to that at 900 m was related to greater solar radiation received at the higher elevation site. After 1950, dramatic increases in basal area increment occurred at 900 m following apparent competitive release after a severe windstorm. As a result, higher sustained basal area increment occurred at 900 m than at 1100 m. Unlike red spruce, growth of balsam fir has not shown severe growth decline. Growth reductions in balsam fir were age-related, with only the older trees experiencing basal area increment reduction during 1960-1985.
10.2307/2484398|Soil moisture, nutrient content, structure and aeration do not appear to limit the distribution of adult black willows in Oklahoma. Instead, the species appears to be limited by the requirements for seed germination and seedling establishment which are met on moist or wet soil. These conditions usually exist only around a permanent source of water where the soil remains wet for an extended period As determined by pot tests, established plants do not have a high moisture requirement and hence the species could survive in a bioader range of environmental conditions than it is restricted to by its seedlings.
10.2307/2484760|Fifty diverse collections of the commonly recognized tetraploid New World cotton species, G. barbadense, G. hirsutum, and G. tomentosum from South and Central America and the Caribbean and Pacific Islands gave identical seed protein electrophoretic patterns. Among 44 collections of the Mexican tetraploid G. palmeri, included in G. hirsutum, 6 gave patterns like that of the recognized species, while 38 gave a uniform but different pattern. The pattern of the commonly recognized species was simulated by electrophoresis of a mixture (1:1) of protein extracts from the Old World diploid cotton G. herbaceum (AA) and one of several wild American diploids (DD) including the Peruvian G. raimondii and the Mexican G. lobatum and G. laxum. The palmeri pattern was simulated by a protein mixture (1:1) from G. herbaceum (AA) and the wild Mexican G. trilobum (DD). Other indigenous Mexican cultigens suggested that G. hirsutum may have originated from more than one primary amphiploid including G. palmeri (AADD) and one or more AADD types. Transitional forms between indigenous cultigens and the cultivated G. hirsutum are abundant in southern Mexico, and intermediate forms between G. hirsutum and G. barbadense are widespread under cultivation. The protein pattern and the dispersion of morphological types favor the concept that G. barbadense (AADD) originated in northern South America from G. herbaceum X G. raimondii and that the cultivated races of G. hirsutum represent various degrees of introgression involving G. barbadense and the Mexican hirsutum complex.
10.2307/2482446|1. In vivo studies of Ceratiomyxa fruticulosa from spore to fusion of swarm cells were made. For several months the spores germinated readily after 24 hours in water. In many preparations all spores germinated, and development was almost synchronous throughout the period of observation. 2. Germination was observed to occur by generalized softening and gradual disappearance of the spore wall. No active emergence of the protoplast from the spore case was observed. 3. Hyaline spore case ghosts were frequently observed. 4. Gilbert's "thread" phase was not observed. 5. No two-part condition of the protoplast after it emerges from the spore case was observed. At its first division the protoplast separates into four globose segments, forming a tetrad. 6. Each segment of the tetrad divides, producing the eight members of the octette. These are globose and soon become flagellated and swim away. They are single and globose as they disperse. 7. The flagellated swarm cells gradually elongate so that at the end of 30-60 minutes they have assumed the typical comma shape of a Myxomycete swarm cell. 8. Careful examination of a limited area in a sealed wet mount showed no biflagellate forms at this stage, and all spores present had germinated. 9. Twelve hours later the same limited area of the wet mount showed many biflagellate forms. These could be seen to be pairs of individual swarm cells which pulled together and drew apart repeatedly over a period of 4-6 hours. During this process the pair were connected only by a thread as they pulled apart and after a time fused into a common elongate mass with one central vacuole during the periods when they had pulled together. 10. Gradually one member of the pair could be seen to be becoming larger while the other became progressively smaller. Finally only the flagellum of the smaller partner remained outside the common mass. 11. No division of swarm cells was observed. 12. Slight drying of the preparation caused rounding up of the fused swarm cells and an increase in their refractivity. In this condition two dense bodies having the appearance of nuclei were clearly visible within the cytoplasm. 13. This dicaryotic condition persisted for at least 24 hours.
10.2307/2995897|An old field plant community containing as dominants the perennial species Solidago graminifolia and Solidago juncea was selected as the study community. This community received three levels (56, 112, and 224 kg/ha) of nitrogen fertilizer and was observed for two growing seasons after the nitrogen application Plant size (weight, stem height, number of leaves and stem diameter) of S graminifolia and S juncea on nitrogen treatment plots increased significantly during the year of fertilizer application (Year 1) and only in S graminifolia during the following year (Year 2) During Year 1, allocation of above ground dry matter to reproductive structures increased by approximately 8% in S juncea, but no increase was observed in S graminifolia. Conversely, in Year 2, S graminifolia displayed a 13% increase in reproductive allocation but S juncea had no significant allocational changes S graminifolia displayed a three-fold increase in density (number of stems per 0.25m
10.2307/2997031|The woody and herbaceous vegetation of 23 tidal freshwater swamps was sampled along the Pamunkey River, a tributary of the York River (a subestuary of Chesapeake Bay). Tidally driven water level fluctuations were monitored and recorded in selected swamps. Four vegetative life-forms were examined and ordinated with Detrended Correspondence Analysis: trees (canopy and sapling sized), woody subcanopy (shrubs and understory trees), vines, and herbs. Species distribution patterns were compared in relation to edaphic factors, a flooding index, and duration of flooding in the root zone. On the basis of the canopy composition, two tidal swamp communities were found, both subjected to a tidally forced hydroperiod regime within the upper 15 cm of their root zones, the approximate height of the hummocks. Nyssa biflora-Fraxinus spp. dominated swamps are best developed toward the more downriver reaches in the wetter sites, which contain more hollows, a higher organic matter content, and higher calcium levels. In contrast, Acer rubrum-Liquidambar styraciflua-Nyssa biflora dominated swamps are more common throughout the mid- to upriver reaches at less wet sites with lower organic matter and calcium levels. Taxodium distichum was found to co-dominate in two swamps that may represent relic conditions for the wetter sites. Although low in canopy diversity, the tidal swamps are floristically rich in herbaceous and subcanopy species, ranking them among the most speciose in temperate North America. The microtopographic complexity (the hummocks vs. hollows pattern) appeared to be strongly related to species distribution patterns in the canopy, vine, and herbaceous strata. Although the ordinations segregated canopy and herbaceous strata similarly, the woody subcanopy did not segregate into the same two communities established by the canopy and herb strata, suggesting that the canopy may be partitioning different resources than the woody subcanopy.
10.2307/2996523|Trees in a savannah and adjacent closed forest in the Midwestern United States had a differential response to a prescribed burn. Forest trees suffered heavy mortality (47.6%) within three years after the burn. In contrast, trees in the savannah suffered essentially no fire damage. Reduced availability of fuel is one factor considered to be of significance to survival of savannah trees.
10.2307/2996307|Recent collections and previously overlooked older collections have extended the known range of common milkweed to South Carolina, Georgia, and Louisiana. Its occurrence in areas far south of 35<sup></sup>N latitude, the limit recorded by Woodson (1954), suggests that A. syriaca is rapidly extending its range southward along highways and railways. From such sites in the vanguard of its advance, common milkweed then disperses locally to saturate appropriate open sites.
10.2307/2483860|Fungal flora of leaves of Triticum aestivum L. was investigated. The phyllosphere and phylloplane regions of green and yellow leaves exhibited variation in the mycoflora. The individual species and their relative amounts varied with the age of the host plant.
10.2307/2483146|Specimens of Hierochloe odorata having four florets per spikelet rather than the usual three were collected in Iceland. In these plants the first and second florets are staminate; the third and fourth are perfect. Other distinctions are the presence of three stamens in the third floret rather than the usual two and the reduced size of the fourth floret. In the classification of grasses the presence in the Phalarideae of a perfect floret subtended by wholly or partially sterile florets has been a puzzle. The Phalarideae clearly are Festucoid in most characteristics; however the spikelets resemble the Panicoid type. It is suggested that the structures of the spikelets herein described reveal their true Festucoid nature.
10.2307/2484100|Community composition and environmental responses of native populations of Andropogon gerardi and A. scoparius in the Red River Valley in North Dakota and Minnesota are described. These are two of the most important species in regions of native tallgrass prairie in the United States. Based on a consideration of relative frequency and relative density, the dominant associates of the two bluestems are Poa pratensis, Stipa spartea, Spartina pectinata and Panicum virgatum. An ordination of 47 quadrats resulted in a clustering of prairie samples distinct from those located in a forest-prairie transition zone. Variations in community composition appear to be related to such habitat features as topography and soil characteristics (rooting depth, available water capacity, replaceable major cations and EDTA-extractable trace elements). Generally, the prairie sites are high in major and trace elements. A comparison with Wiscousin populations reveals that the Red River Valley bluestems are lower in foliar concentrations of Ca, Mg, K, Mn and Zn but higher in Cu levels. Populations of A. gerardi have a better growth form on well drained, sandy habitats than on clay loams and clays. Biomass data of the two bluestem communities recorded biweekly throughout the growing season reveal that peak biomass of A. gerardi was 441 g/m<sup>2</sup> with a mean net productivity rate of 4.8 g/m<sup>2</sup>/day, and peak biomass of A. scoparius was 231 gm/m<sup>2</sup>, with a mean rate of net productivity of 6 g/m<sup>2</sup>/day.
10.2307/2484570|The position of 33 plant species in relation to slope location through time was determined on the Morro Bay sand spit. Dominance values of 16 species were defined via relative density, frequency, and multiple range analysis. Mesembryanthemum chilense, Croton californicus, Haplopappus ericoides, Dudleya caespitosa and Corethrogyne leucophylla are dominant species in this ecosystem. Ridge and leeward transects were similar in numbers of dominant species, whereas qualitative differences are readily apparent in the case of dominant species on wind-exposed slopes. Ridge areas are dissected by blowouts affording an intracommunal ecotone where Achillea millefolium is prevalent. Decumbent succulent herbs dominate windward slopes with the hillock formers Lupinus chamissonis, Abronia maritima, and Cakile maritima being important in dune formation and stabilization. Flowering periods, sociability, and growth habits are also discussed.
10.2307/2997012|The first New York State record for Lespedeza striata (Thunb.) Hook. & Arn. is reported from Suffolk County, Long Island. An historical account of the species' introduction to North America and subsequent migration is presented. Morphological characters distinguishing L. striata from the superficially similar L. stipulacea Maxim. are also presented.
10.2307/2484896|Two disjunct stands of Quercus prinus in southern Illinois were sampled before, and 1 and 3 years following clearcutting to quantify forest regrowth. The size-class structure of preharvest stands was all-sized (aged). Floristic composition of the stands did not change greatly 3 years following cutting. Most arboreal species are successfully reproducing either through advance or sprout regeneration. Exceptions to this are Quercus rubra, and some Carya species. Quercus prinus, in particular, is very successfully reproducing and shows no tendency to be eliminated or reduced by timber harvesting at the northwestern margin of its distribution.
10.2307/2483331|The genus Linum in North America can be divided into three infrageneric groups. The blue-flowered group, consisting of two species, is believed to have entered the continent from Eurasia, the white-flowered L. catharticum from Europe. The yellow-flowered species comprise the largest group in North America. Its thirty-six species may be divided into five well-defined subgroups or species complexes. The L. schiedeanum complex, presently centered in east-central Mexico, is believed to be the most primitive. Three evolutionary sequences, leading to the L. virginianum complex of eastern North America and the L. neo-mexicanum and L. rigidum complexes of western North America, are described. The last includes the most highly specialized species of the genus on the continent. They might easily be placed in a separate genus, but species such as L. rupestre, L. sulcatum and L. subteres appear to bridge the gap. The occurrence in Africa of some species very similar to L. schiedeanum suggests that the yellow-flowered group may have had its origin among Old World plants.
10.2307/2481946|1. Fertile tips of Osmunda regalis fronds containing meiotic stages in sporogenesis were collected, fixed for mitochondrial preservation, sectioned at 2-3 micra and stained with iron hematoxylin. 2. Study of these sections indicated that through interphase I, the behavior of the cytoplasmic inclusions is essentially like that previously observed in Nephrodium and Onoclea. 3. Sections of later stages show that in Osmunda regalis, the compact plate of inclusions characteristic of interphase I is, by folding and by formation of two additional plates, converted into a 6-partite figure, dividing the spore mother cell into four tetrahedrally arranged spores. The manner in which this is accomplished is described. 4. Onoclea and Osmunda are compared and discussed. The difference in the kinetics of the cytoplasmic inclusions during sporogenesis in these species, and the relation of this to the type of quartet produced, suggest an inherent tendency present in the cytoplasm of the spore mother cell, which tendency evidences itself prior to the completion of cytokinesis.
10.2307/2484117|Study of eighteen populations of perennial species of Sedum in Mexico in 1976 and 1977 indicates that four species, usually conceived as monotypic, are aggregates, comprising two or more subspecies; three populations belong to previously undescribed species; and the principal mode of reproduction is important in determining the structure and variation of populations. The four aggregate species, with the number of included subspecies and the names of the new subspecies, are: Sedum calcicola-2, ssp. desertorum in southern Nuevo Leon; S. guadalajaranum-2, ssp. viridifolium in Zacatecas; S. greggii-2, ssp. angustifolium in Jalisco; and S. parvum-3, ssp. dendroides in San Luis Potosi and ssp. nanifolium in Tamaulipas, Nuevo Leon, Coahuila, and Texas. The new species are Sedum multiflorum-Jalisco, S. reptans-San Luis Potosi and Queretaro, and S. trichromum-Durango. Vegetative reproduction is important in the spread of each of these species. Plantlets develop readily from detached leaves of S. calcicola, S. greggii, S. multiflorum, and S. trichromum. Broken pieces of stems are important in the propagation of S. reptans and S. parvum, and both pieces of stem and tubers in the spread of S. guadalajaranum. The circumstance leads to a strongly aggregated pattern of distribution, with many plants with the same genotypes growing in close proximity.
10.2307/2995954|The 44 species and 1 variety of Sphagnum that occur in New Jersey represent a remarkably diverse flora, and include 10 species and 1 variety at the limits of their natural ranges (southern limit: S. angermanicum, S austinii, S centrale, S contortum, S. flavicomans, S platyphyllum, S riparium, S teres; northern limit: S. carolinianum, S macrophyllum var. floridanum, S perichaetiale). A major difference exists between the Sphagnum vegetation of the glaciated region of northern New Jersey and that of the coastal plain of southen New Jersey, with 15 species being limited to the former area and 11 species and 1 variety restricted to the latter. A key is given for the sections and for the species and the habitat and distribution of the species are presented.
10.2307/2996279|Different aged trees of singleleaf pinyon (Pinus monophylla Torr. and Frem.) provided a chronosequence of undergrowth response to increasing tree dominance. Undergrowth composition and distribution around the tree stem changed as trees increased in size. Tree-induced microhabitats created a mosaic of undergrowth species groups each with their own sere. Individual undergrowth species response to tree effects varied with tree size, topographic aspect, and slope position relative to the tree stem. Succession was more a plant-by-plant process than a species population phenomena, as plants of the same species were enhanced or debilitated during the same time period depending on the plants' position relative to the tree crown. Existing undergrowth reorganized itself to occupy the evolving tree-induced microhabitats rather than new microhabitats being occupied by invader species.
10.2307/2484958|The caloric, lipid and ash contents were determined for roots of Delphinium virescens Nutt. collected on 15 dates beginning 9 July 1970 and ending 4 August 1971. Good correlation was found between phenology and caloric and lipid contents. Caloric values (cal/gm ash-free oven dry wt) were highest (4,892) during the latter half of dormancy in August and September and lowest (4,500) during flowering and seed set in May. Lipid content (% ash-free oven dry wt) was highest (11.4) during the latter half of dormancy and lowest (6.8) in late March and early April between flower bud formation and bolting. Ash content throughout the year varied from 13.2 to 4.7% oven dry wt.
10.2307/2995974|A comparative study of the leaf flavonoids of the eight species of Vernonia series Flexuosae was performed to help clarify their relationships. Structurally the 25 flavonoids detected were based on flavones and flavonols. The chemical data supported the classification of the series Flexuosae based on macromorphology. Each species contained its own particular combination of flavonoids but all taxa were found to share compounds in the following flavonoid groups: apigenin and luteolin 6- and 8-C-glycosides, apigenin and luteolin 7-O-glycosides and kaempferol and quercetin 3-O-glycosides. A reductionary trend in flavonoid evolution is suggested for series Flexuosae.
10.2307/2996765|The Plant World, founded in 1897, passed through several changes in ownership and emphasis during its 23 years, first as a privately published botanical magazine, then as the house organ of the Wild Flower Preservation Society, and finally as an unofficial publication of the Desert Laboratory of the Carnegie Institution of Washington in Tucson, Arizona. In 1911 Forrest Shreve became the eighth and final editor of the Plant World. Under his management, it became a respected scientific journal with a strong emphasis on plant ecology and physiology. The Ecological Society of America acquired the Plant World in 1920 and continued publication underthe title Ecology
10.2307/2483788|The leaf blade epidermis of twelve populations of the Danthonia sericea (Gramineae) complex was examined. Populations without the villous sheaths and backs of lemmas had stomata on the adaxial surface only and occupied bogs, seepage areas, and stream borders. Pubescent populations had stomata on both surfaces and occupied well-drained sites. Two intermediate populations were found-a glabrous population with stomata on both surfaces and a pubescent population that was not as villous as other populations having that character. All populations examined had dumbbell-shaped silica cells, bicellular and unicellular microhairs, and undulate-walled long cells. Stomatal size as a ploidy level indicator disclosed no apparent difference in chromosome number among populations occupying markedly different ecological habitats.
10.2307/2483751|Corings of sediments taken at different depths from African lakes show that (1) in such sites many kinds of fungi occur universally; (2) in sediments, conditions are favorable for spore preservation for thousands of years; (3) the identification of such fungi is attended with enormous difficulty; (4) fungus spores, just as is the case with pollen, constitute documentary evidence of vegetational changes; and (5) the results of analyses of spores occurring in sediments might be used to supplement pollen analyses.
10.2307/2482592|1. Botrychium minganense Victorin (Ophioglossaceae) was described in 1927. It was subsequently reduced to the status of a variety, and then a form, of the nearly cosmopolitan B. lunaria (L.) Sw. Plants from California as well as numerous localities in northern North America were referred to taxon minganense. An attempt is made here to evaluate the distinctness of B. minganense and B. lunaria in localities where the two occur together in Michigan. 2. Part of the problem of discriminating critical species in this group arises from the need of good population samples and adequate specimens. A number of localities found for the two taxa under consideration here in northern Michigan made it possible to evaluate their distinctness on the basis of numerous living specimens and carefully preserved specimens. 3. The morphological distinctions between B. minganense and B. lunaria are shown to include differences in the laminar color, the orientation of the sterile blades, the relative lengths of sterile blades, the angles between the lower and upper margins of the basal pinnae, the orientation of the lower margins of the pinnae, the breadth of the pinnae, the structure of the tip of the sterile segment, as well as the late vernation stages, the juvenile leaf structure, and the form of the leaf primordium. These differences are discussed in some detail and illustrated in certain cases. 4. Both of the taxa possess marked forms of deep-shade habitats which differ considerably from one another. However, the shade form of B. lunaria (B. l. f. onondagense (Underw.) Butters & Abbe) may tend to resemble typical plants of B. minganense of normal habitat in certain designated respects. 5. Cytologically, B. minganense differs from B. lunaria in having spores of larger size, and in having n = 90 chromosomes rather than n = 45. Although not necessarily a primary basis of species distinction, the latter difference in chromosomes indicates that the two taxa are probably reproductively isolated. 6. The California plant which has been identified as B. minganense does not represent that taxon but rather a variety or subspecies of B. lunaria. It shares most of its characteristics with the latter species, differing from it primarily in its laminar coloration and in its stature. 7. Botrychium minganense does not appear on present evidence to have had hybrid origin. On the contrary, this taxon is evidently a normal species, endemic to northern North America, and belonging to the general circle of affinity that includes B. lunaria and B. simplex.
10.2307/2996039|The effects of shade litter and root competition on old-field herbaceous vegetation were examined by using two different approaches: one involved the addition of shade and/or litter to plots in an old-field, while the other involved eliminating root competition by trenching along the side of singly-growing pine trees. Vegetation was sampled prior to treatment and again after one and two years of treatment. The normal course of succession was a decrease in density and biomass of annuals, while the density and biomass of perennials doubled. Species more characteristic of early old-field successional stages were more apt to be inhibited by treatment than species characteristic of later successional stages. In the experimental treatments, shade reduced biomass and density, except in Cynodon. Litter alone produced a major decrease in the number of individuals and in biomass; perennial grasses were affected the least and some (Andropogon, Aristida, Leptoloma) showed a major increase over controls. Shade + litter drastically reduced (60-70%) density and biomass (stems and leaves) of annuals and increased the density of perennials, especially Cynodon with shade and pine litter and Andropogon on shade and hardwood litter. In the trenching experiment, the annuals showed no real response in trenched, litter-intact quadrats, while the perennials increased fourfold in density. Annuals had higher densities (100% increase) in response to trenched + litter removal treatment; perennials showed no enhancement of density with the trenched, litter-removal treatment. The largest number of species invaded trenched, litter-removal quadrats. Plants on unshaded quadrats produced more root biomass than on shaded quadrats. More root biomass was produced on hardwood litter plots than under pine litter. Less root biomass was produced on shaded or unshaded + litter plots after two years. Annuals were inhibited by dense shade, root competition and litter. Root competition and shade were more important in suppressing perennials than was litter.
10.2307/2997008|Characteristics of juvenile Picea rubens Sarg. (red spruce) age- and size-structure were evaluated as well as terminal and lateral growth increments for P. rubens saplings among forest community types and microtopographical positions on the Woods Lake watershed in the western Adirondack mountains, New York, USA. The effects of a watershed liming with 6.89 tha<sup>-1</sup> of pelletized CaCO<sub>3</sub> on the growth of P rubens saplings were evaluated in reference and treated subcatchments for the year prior to and three years after treatment to determine if a calcite application initially affected growth. Forest community types at Woods Lake were similar to other northeastern forests in composition and structure, but will likely experience changes in overstory composition as the dominant species, Acer rubrum L. (red maple), is replaced. Fagus grandifolia Ehrh. (American beech) was codominant in the overstory with A. rubrum, and was dominant in the understory. Picea rubens saplings were more frequently found on mounds than other microtopographical positions, but not on mounds that were of recent origin. Picea rubens saplings had an unimodal age-structure characteristic of an even-aged population, which suggests a pattern of episodic regeneration coincident with local windthrow disturbance. Picea rubens that occurred on mounds, rocks, and intact areas tended to be larger and older than those found in pits. The establishment and survival of juvenile P. rubens were limited by the availability of microsites coincident with good seed years, and the suitability of microsites for growth once stems were established. Terminal and lateral growth increments of P rubens saplings were similar among microtopographical positions and between reference and limed subcatchments before and in the two years after liming. In 1992, the terminal increment of P. rubens was not different from the 1991 terminal increment on treated subcatchments, but in reference subcatchments the terminal increment was less than in 1991. The potential role of P rubens in future forests is discussed.
10.2307/2996690|Established staghorn sumac (Rhus typhina L.) clones growing in northern Kentucky were studied from 1985 to 1989. Stems in the interiors of clones increased in size during the study period, but trends in stem density, basal area, and growth rate suggested that these stems are in steady state or decline. Entire clones that survived during the study showed an increase in numbers of small, peripheral stems. Frost damage of all clones in spring 1986 was associated with release of a large cohort of new stems. Survivorship within this cohort was highest among peripheral stems; most new stems in clone interiors perished during the first growing season. Low-level disturbance stimulates a generalized, episodic release of new stems, but it is primarily the peripheral stems that contribute to long-term clone development.
10.2307/2484217|Hemionitis, Gymnopteris and Bommeria represent three closely related genera of "gymnogrammoid" ferns. No single character or combination thereof clearly and consistently distinguishes these genera and some authors have often combined them at one time or another. An initial survey of flavonoids of Hemionitis and Gymnopteris did, in fact, show two basic chemical groups: (1) one group of taxa characterized by the presence of flavonol (quercetin) 3,4'-di-O-glycosides and (2) a second group of taxa producing only flavonol (quercetin and kaempferol) 3-O-glycosides. However, since each chemical group contained species of both Hemionitis and Gymnopteris, the chemical groupings of taxa cut across generic lines based on morphological characters. Further, the first group of species (i.e., with flavonol 3,4'-di-O-glycosides) possesses tuberculate spores while the second group of species (i.e., those with flavonol 3-O-glycosides) possesses crested (cristate) spores. Thus, two independent, strongly correlated sets of data suggest: (1) that retention of two separate genera, Hemionitis and Gymnopteris, is untenable on the basis of previously employed, but highly variable morphological characters, and (2) that they should be combined into a single genus as suggested by some authors. Subsequent work on Bommeria showed all species to possess cristate spores (or a related reticulate form) and, as might be predicted, all taxa possessed the flavonol 3-O-glycosides characteristic of the same cristate spore group in Hemionitis/Gymnopteris. Based on these spore and chemical data and the lack of generically distinctive morphological (and other) characters, it has been suggested that all three genera might be treated as a single genus with perhaps some subgeneric groups based on spore types, supported by flavonoid data.
10.2307/2997026|Seeds are illustrated or described for the first time for three species of Ipomoea considered to be allies of the sweet potato. Ipomoea cynanchifolia shares seed traits with I. grandifolia and I. ramosissima. Ipomoea grandifolia was previously hypothesized to be a hybrid; however, the new data indicate that this was in error. Ipomoea peruviana shows intermediate traits between sections Batatas and Eriospermum.
10.2307/2996799|The theoretical distribution of light in a circular forest canopy gap is symmetrically equal on the east and west sides of the gap. However, small plants on the west side of the gap receive maximum light in the morning when air temperature and vapor pressure deficit are relatively low, while plants on the east side receive maximum light in the afternoon when temperature and VPD are high. To test the hypothesis that plants on the west side of a gap are able to use light more efficiently, Microstegium vimineum, a shade-adapted annual grass, was grown in pots in a forest canopy gap, both in the actual open gap and in the extended gap. In the actual gap there was no difference in growth efficiency. However, in the extended gap growth efficiency was 39% greater on the west side than on the east side under equal light (integrated photon flux density). Thus, asymmetry of microclimate on the east and west sides of a canopy gap causes an east-west asymmetry in plant growth efficiency and may induce asymmetry in species composition of understory vegetation.
10.2307/2483883|The consensus of contemporary opinion holds that, although the earlier stages of embryogenesis in both monocotyledons and dicotyledons follow identical sequences, the single cotyledon of the monocotyledon embryo develops from the terminal pole of the proembryo while the shoot apex originates from a lateral locus on the embryonal axis, which relationship is reversed in the dicotyledon embryo. In contrast, studies on the embryo development in Eichhornia crassipes, as also in some of the recently investigated monocotyledon taxa, clearly demonstrate that the topographical relationships of cotyledon-epicotyl and shoot apex-hypocotyl are the same as in the dicotyledon embryo. These results, therefore, seriously question the validity of current understanding of the monocotyledon embryo. The present study also throws further light on the occurence of diverse patterns of shoot apex organization in the monocotyledon embryos: While in some of the recently investigated taxa the cotyledonary and epicotylary loci share equal quanta of the working sphere of the shoot apex, in Eichhornia the cotyledonary locus involves three-quarters and the epicotylary locus one-quarter. A summation of results of recent researches on monocotyledon embryogenesis warrant fresh investigations which in turn would lead to formulation of concepts that are in keeping with observed facts.
10.2307/2484164|During a severe drought in May 1977, all plants in a population of the winter annual Sedum pulchellum Michx. at an old limestone quarry site in northcentral Kentucky died before producing seeds. However, during the following autumn the annual establishment of the S. pulchellum population at this site occurred from the reserve of seeds in the soil; a density of 5.6 plants/dm
10.2307/2484178|The cytological effect of nogalamycin was tested in microsporocytes of Tradescantia paludosa. Microsporocytes from treated and control buds were analyzed for bridge and fragment configurations. Fragments accompanying anaphase I and II bridges were measured. The presence of univalent bridges at anaphase I, a high incidence of metaphase I fragments and second division bridges with fragments, bridges without fragments and variation in fragment size suggested errors arising from breakage and fusion rather than inversion-induced bridges and fragments.
10.2307/2482381|Tobacco seedlings (Maryland Medium Broadleaf) were grown aseptically in 200 ml. Erlenmeyer flasks on 50 ml. of a complete mineral agar. The temperature was 25 C and illumination about 500 foot candles. Bacillus cereus Frankland and Frankland produced symptom patterns in gross morphology of the seedlings that closely approximated those of frenching. Marginal inoculations of the medium were quite effective and demonstrated that roots and bacteria need not be in contact to produce the symptoms. Roots of the seedlings were normal in color, but much shorter and somewhat thicker. The effectiveness of B. cereus varied with the strain, the kind and quantity of peptone used, and the concentration of inorganic nitrogen. Bactotryptone, 200 p.p.m., was most effective with 141 p.p.m. of inorganic nitrogen. The presence of 227 p.p.m. of inorganic nitrogen led to masking or delay in appearance of the symptoms. It is suggested that diffusates from B. cereus and perhaps other soil bacteria, may be the cause of frenching of tobacco in the field.
10.2307/2482304|1. Seventeen strains of fungi were cultured with different concentrations of streptomycin covering the range: 0.0, 0.1, 1.0, 2.5, 5.0 and 10 mgs. per ml. Two types of media were used, one with peptone and one without, and growth was observed in the pH ranges of 4.0-4.1 and 5.9-6.0. 2. Either inhibition or enhancement with streptomycin was obtained with 8 of the 17 fungi tested. The peculiar effects obtained appear to vary with the type of medium used, but seem not to be due to differences in pH and incubation temperatures. When acceleration occurred it was usually best with 5.0 and 10 mgs. per ml. of streptomycin and inhibition was generally also in direct proportion to the concentration. 3. Nocardia grown with 2.5-10 mgs./ml. of streptomycin lost its normal orange color.
10.2307/2996253|Multivariate analyses were carried out on 32 greenhouse populations derived from the same number of wild populations of three taxa of California Fragaria. Population samples varied from 5 to 9 individuals and the total sample size was 254. Relationships among taxa were assessed by principal components, cluster, and discriminant analysis. Population relationships were determined by discriminant analysis. When all populations were included, there was 77% correct classification of individual plants. Further, there was no overlap among the three taxa (F. vesca, F. chiloensis, F. virginiana subsp glauca). Separate analyses of F. vesca and F. chiloensis resulted in, respectively, 91% and 78% correct classification These analyses revealed considerable variation among populations and each population illustrates adaptation to different ecological circumstances. Additional analyses of F. vesca and F. chiloensis were prepared by assigning populations to community types. This results in three community types for F. vesca (coastal forest, scrub, sierran forest) and four for F. chiloensis (dunes, scrub, strand, and woodland-meadows). Discriminant analyses of these groups revealed 91% correct classification, by community type, for F. vesca and 87% for F. chiloensis. These results indicate that (a) each taxon has segregated into morphological types that correspond to general community types and that (b) within each community type there is further differentiation into population types.
10.2307/2996726|Seeds of Carya floridana (Sarg.) Small, a Florida endemic and prominent constituent of the southern ridge sandhill vegetation type, were collected from Red Hill at the Archbold Biological Station in Highlands County, Florida to determine germinability and microsite requirements for successful establishment, growth, and survival. A float test revealed that only 0.03% of the nuts were unsound (14 of 440). Of the remaining 426 nuts, 384 were selected for uniformity and returned to the greenhouse to determine germinability. A total of 368 nuts (96%) germinated within 20 days with no pretreatment. Germinated nuts were subsequently used to experimentally examine the effects of soil type (pure sand, sand: vermiculite, sphagnum: vermiculite: perlite) and nutrient addition (20:20:20 NPK fertilizer present or absent) on seedling establishment, growth, and survival. Survival was >90% after 12 weeks for all non-fertilized soil types and the fertilized sphagnum:vermiculite:perlite treatment. Fertilization of the sand and sand:vermiculite soils, however, resulted in survivorship declining to 38 and 0%, respectively. Soil, fertilizer, and the soil*fertilizer interaction had significant effects on many of the morphometric and allocation variables. In general, this species appears to be well adapted to soils with low water holding capacity, low organic matter, and minimal fertility. While fire is the primary determinant of seedling establishment and survival in this habitat, microsite heterogeneity may play a secondary role.
10.2307/2484783|Twelve mature forest types based on a review of the literature and on field reconnaissance are recognized for Long Island. The types are classified as "Forests of well-drained soils" (eight types) and "Forests of poorly-drained soils" (four types). In addition, six "Strand or maritime forest" types which develop under coastal microclimates are recognized. A list is given of trees that are reported to form pure stands of limited extent, and a key to the twelve types is included to aid in rapid field identification.
10.2307/2996383|Naturally occurring populations of Opuntia (Cactaceae) within the Ridge and Valley Province of the central Appalachian Mountains were investigated to determine if the cacti of this area are the widely distributed species O. compressa (Salisb.) Macbr. or represent two species, O. compressa and O. calcicola Wherry. Nine populations were examined and measurements were taken for nineteen morphological characteristics and also for various environmental parameters. A high degree of variability was found to exist within each population, much more than was found to exist among all nine population means. Morphological data were statistically analyzed using cluster analysis and one-way analysis of variance. Results of these analyses provided no evidence supporting the presence of more than one species of cactus, leading to the conclusion that all cacti growing in this area are O. compressa, and that O. calcicola does not warrant recognition at any taxonomic level.
10.2307/2483147|Five kinds of mature, unspecialized, colorless plant tissues with regular columnar cell arrangements were studied in the living condition in sucrose solutions having concentrations determined as approximately isotonic with the vacuolar contents of the cells. The tissues used were (1) Rhoeo discolor Hance upper subepidermal leaf parenchyma, (2) Begonia ricinifolia A. Dietr., var. "Immense" leaf petiole parenchyma, (3) Impatiens Balsamina L. stem pith, (4) Coleus Rehneltianus Per. stem pith, and (5) Asparagus Sprengeri Regel tuberous root cortex. Five tetrakaidecahedral cells and five other 14-faced cells chosen at random but restricted to having only quadrilateral, pentagonal, and hexagonal faces from each tissue were drawn and compared with ten 14-faced cells from the irregularly arranged, colorless leaf parenchyma of Kleinia gomphophylla Dietr. in the living condition. No tetrakaidecahedral cells were found in the Kleinia leaf parenchyma. Edge curvatures of all the cells from regularly arranged tissues resembled to a great degree those of the minimal tetrakaidecahedron, but some exceptions occurred. Edge curvatures of cells from irregularly arranged tissue exhibited a lesser degree of resemblance. Edges common to a pair of hexagonal faces in elongate tetrakaidecahedral cells and those closely related in form exhibited a sigmoid curvature thought to result from surface forces tending to equilibrate facial angles at cell vertices. Some possible patterns of equational division of a 17-faced cell in hexagonally prismatic form were considered, and the resultant daughter cell possibilities were compared in form with data on cells previously studied by other investigators. It was concluded that cell form is determined by the mode of cell division and the activity of surface forces operating in conjunction with many other factors under conditions governed by definite mathematical and physical laws.
10.2307/2483145|1. Corn (Zea mays, Bikini out-crossed) was grown in 16 controlled environmental conditions. Pollen from plants in 13 of these conditions was acetolyzed and the axis length and diameter of the pore (including the annulus) were measured. A total of 500 grains was studied. The axis/pore and (axis)<sup>2</sup>/pore ratios for each grain were calculated. 2. Because axis length was changed more by environment than pore diameter, the (axis)<sup>2</sup>/pore ratio was proposed as a measure to give additional weight to changes in axis length. This ratio gave greater differences between means of size characters of pollen from different environments. 3. Statistical analysis of the effects of environment on corn pollen showed that pollen size varied inversely with night temperatures. Analysis of variance showed that there was variation of pollen among plants in the same environment, suggesting that genetic variability and micro-environments may have marked effects on corn pollen characters. 4. Environmental changes affected axis length and pore diameter sufficiently to make the pollen grains from different environments appear to have been derived from more than one population. On the basis of a simple discriminant which has been used by other workers to differentiate pollen of corn from teosinte and Tripsacum, 31% of the corn pollen from the various environments could have been classified as teosinte or Tripsacum. 5. Some problems associated with the classification of a fossil pollen grain as that of corn were discussed. The data in the present study do not refute the findings of Barghoorn et al. (1954) but indicate the need for more reliable methods for the identification of corn pollen.
10.2307/2484033|The mature upland forests of Cape May County, the most southerly county in New Jersey, show a decided southern affinity. The floristic diversity is not as great as areas to the south but the major species on a vegetational basis are clearly important members of the southern mixed hardwood forest. These mature stands have little in common with the vegetation of the New Jersey Pine Barrens. The Cape May forests are here considered to be outliers of the southern mixed hardwood forests.
10.2307/2996041|Radial growth of American beech (Fagus grandifolia Ehrh.) at high elevations in the Great Smoky Mountains was examined in relation to monthly variation in climate. Mean monthly temperatures for May, July and August of the current growing season were inversely related to the width of annual growth rings. Mean April temperatures were directly related to radial growth of beech at highest elevations suggesting that early spring temperatures affected the length of the growing season. Growth of beech was correlated with April rainfall of the current season and rainfall in August of the previous growing season. These results suggested that growth responses to climate of beech at high elevations differed from growth patterns previously described for beech in other portions of the range, with growth of beech being limited by low rainfall in spring and high temperatures in summer.
10.2307/2484537|Seed proteins were studied in 174 plants from 20 populations of Chenopodium incanum. Thirteen of the 20 populations showed no protein variation among the component plants. Plants from two populations displayed less than 80% protein similarity. Interpopulational variation exceeded intrapopulation variability, with only two assemblages displaying greater than 80% similarity. Plants from nearby geographic localities tend to be more similar in seed protein ensembles than do those from widely separated localities, but there are exceptions. The seed protein data suggest that more genetic heterogeneity exists in C. incanum than is evident from the uniform morphology of the species. The results reveal that it is essential that sampling within a given taxon be extensive if seed protein data are to be used to analyze the biosystematics of the group. An attempt is made to explain the pattern of seed protein profiles in C. incanum in terms of its current breeding system.
10.2307/2483794|Two compounds, azetidine-2-carboxylic acid and 2,2'-dipyridyl, reported to interact at two different steps involved in the synthesis of proline- and hydroxyproline-containing protein were found to inhibit growth and induce phenovariation in Scapania nemorosa (L.) Dum. The similarity in the effects of these substances to those of hydroxyproline supports the hypothesis that this latter compound also induces phenovariation by virtue of altering the "normal" synthesis of proline-hydroxyproline-containing proteins.
10.2307/2484166|The pollen records from three lakes in northern New Jersey reflect the history of the landscape from precolonial time to the present. Each pollen diagram contains three pollen zones, one representing a period prior to European settlement, the second a period of deforestation, and the third a period of forest recovery. Ragweed pollen rose from near zero in the precolonial zone to 12-20% of the pollen sum in the deforestation zone and then fell to 6-10% in the recovery zone; these changes defined the zones. The zones correspond with an historically established sequence characterized by a time prior to European disturbance, land clearance from about 1740 to 1850, and forest recovery from about 1850 to the present. Oak (Quercus) was the dominant genus in the forests near all of the lakes at all time periods. In the precolonial forests chestnut (Castanea) shared dominance with oak in the upland forests and alder (Alnus) was probably widespread in the swampy lowlands. Other major genera were hemlock (Tsuga), birch (Betula) and pine (Pinus). As colonists felled these forests, the relative abundances of the species near the lakes changed. Cutting trees for charcoal favored oaks and birch; clearing and draining of swamps eliminated most of the alder. In many areas hemlock and chestnut also declined in importance. Forests regenerated in the recovery period, with more birch and less hemlock and chestnut than before settlement. Where swamp forests were re-established American elm, white ash and red maple (Ulmus americana, Fraxinus americana and Acer rubrum) forests replaced the alder. The persistence of the upland forest types attests to the stability of these forest types even in the face of extensive disturbance.
10.2307/2996949|Viburnum sieboldii Miq. is native to Japan but has gotten a foothold in the wild in North America, having been cultivated here for some time. The species is growing out of cultivation and is often reproducing in New York City parks in the Bronx, Queens, and elsewhere in Westchester and Nassau counties. This is despite the fact that this species is almost completely ignored in the major U.S. botanical literature, and regional and local floras. There may be some potential for this plant to become locally abundant and outcompete native vegetation.
10.2307/2483599|A 5.75-meter long core of sediment from Lake Mahoma has been re-examined to determine (1) the total population of fungus spores per cubic centimeter of material at different levels and (2) the distribution of the different kinds throughout the entire profile. A maximum of 60,912 spores per cubic centimeter of sediment occurred medianly between the one and two-meter levels. The fungus flora consisted of approximately 40 kinds, only 2 of which were present at nearly all levels in the highly organic portion of the profile, whereas the basal silt portion contained relatively few spores. The pattern of spore distribution shows a trend toward decline in numbers with an increase in profile depth, an unexplained finding that accords with that previously noted both for Lake Bujuku and for Lake Tanganyika.
10.2307/2482195|1. A heat chamber is described for the purposes of testing the effect of high temperatures and high relative humidity on plant overgrowths. 2. This chamber is provided with an automatic, electrically controlled device for heating, vaporizing water and feeding water for humidification. 3. Preliminary trials have furnished material for cytological study of the effect of heat and humidity on plant tumor development.
10.2307/2484167|The leaf surface mycoflora of mustard (Brassica campestris L. cv. YS-42) were isolated from the seedling stage up to the senescent stage, at intervals of 30 days, by use of the techniques of dilution plate, washed leaf disks and unwashed leaf disks in moist chambers. The maximum number of fungal species was isolated by the dilution plate method and the minimum by the washed leaf disks method. Cladosporium cladosporioides was most frequently isolated under all conditions. However, it was replaced by Alternaria alternata on washed disks of senescent leaves. The numbers of leaf surface microfungi isolated increased with leaf age.
10.2307/2484717|At two sites in North Carolina, inflorescence heights, leaf number at various height intervals, and time of senescence were studied over the flowering season of Rumex hastatulus, an annual dioecious colonizer. Inflorescence height was significantly affected by site, census date, and sex. Female inflorescences rapidly outgrew males, though males began flowering first. Leaf number was significantly affected by site, height interval, and sex at all census dates. Females had more leaves than males. The mean senescence date of males was one week earlier than for females. The differences reported for males and females are best interpreted as consequences of the different optimal reproductive strategies of the two sexes rather than as niche partitioning of the light resource.
10.2307/2484681|Mentzelia displays a wide range of evolutionary mechanisms which have affected speciation in the genus, including: species-specific pollination vectors, preferential habitat requirements, and formation of aneuploid and polyploid series. The taxon M. speciosa, first described by G. E. Osterhout in 1901, has a limited distribution in the Rocky Mountain Front Range. Touterea sinuata (Touterea = Mentzelia) described by P. A. Rydberg in 1904 from the same region, was quickly placed in synonomy under M. speciosa. Data derived from morphological and cytological examinations of populations of putative M. speciosa indicate that Touterea sinuata is a valid taxon. Scanning electron microscopy of seed coat microsculpturing would indicate either that speciation is recent, or that the taxa have not evolved greatly since their initial divergence The two taxa are described, and the new combination Mentzelia sinuata (Rydb.) R. J. Hill is made. Distribution maps, leaf silhouettes and caryograms are included. Synonomy and selected exsiccatae are given.
10.2307/2484379|Seasonal changes in shoot numbers and weights, standing crop and primary production and nutrients were determined for aboveground tissues of Typha glauca. Shoot numbers in May were 34/m
10.2307/2482281|1. The marketing of sun-dried chile produced in New Mexico is seriously handicapped by the presence of molds within the cured pods. 2. A three-year study revealed that: a. 21 different fungi were responsible for internal pod contamination. b. The most common internal contamination were two species of Fusarium, two species of Alternaria, and one species of Hormodendrum. c. Prevalence of the various fungi varied from year to year. 3. The fungi usually gained entrance to the red succulent pods following damage by frost when the ovary wall pulled away from the seed mass allowing for the entrance of fungus spores. 4. When moisture collected in the shoulder folds of fleshy pods, Alternaria tenuis and A. solani entered by direct penetration of the ovary wall. 5. About 200 progeny lines were examined for resistance to frost damage, with negative results. 6. Mold percentages were lower in lines which produced pods with narrow shoulders and a tight-fitting calyx.
10.2307/2484443|In a central New York State beech-maple woodland, the dispersal characteristics of the herbaceous species were recorded. Forty-five herbaceous species were present in the quadrats sampled; thirteen of these species were ant-dispersed (myrmecochores). Ant-dispersed plants contributed half of the 10,004 stems sampled, 60.2, 53.9, 55.4. and 50.7% in each of four sections of the forest. Ant-dispersed plants also comprised 48.2, 39.5, 38.3, and 37.3% of the aboveground herbaceous biomass in these areas. Foraging and nesting behavior of ants must be a major factor contributing to the structure of this herb community, along with asexual reproductive patterns and competitive processes. Local differences in herb community structure may be mediated by differences in ant abundance and behavior.
10.2307/2996086|The chronosequence method (stand ages 0-20 years)was used to study the invasion of the upper Coastal Prairie of Texas Dy tile Chinese tallow tree and to learn whether this exotic plant would be replaced by native woodland species. This invasion marked a dramatic transformation of community structure. Dominance of life forms shifted rapidly (<10 years to canopy closure) as graminoids and forbs were replaced by trees and shrubs during succession. Size-frequency distributions of the trees showed that stands were not even-aged. Many stands in the oldest three age classes exhibited descending monotonic tree size distributions. Because Chinese tallow produces seeds soon after establishment, it seems likely that the rapid increase in density was the result of initial trees acting as seed sources. The most common native trees that appeared in the survey were generally small-seeded inhabitants of local riparian areas, e.g., hackberry (Celtis laevigata), elm (Ulmus americana), green ash (Fraxinus pensylvanica), and yaupon (Ilex vomitoria). Low densities of these species indicated slow invasion rates compared to that of tallow. Currently, stands are virtually monospecific. However, the non-tallow species showed a significant increase in density with stand age which suggests that these woodlands may become more diverse in the future.
10.2307/2995943|Three vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhiza (VAM) fungus parameters were compared for five sites at Weston Cemetary Prairie, and adjacent corn and oat fields. Spore analysis showed Glomus fasciculatum complex to be the most abundant taxon at all sites in both 1982 and 1984. One-way ANOVA of total spores per site showed significant differences between three prairie sites and the adjacent corn field in 1982, but no significant differences between sites in 1984. One-way ANOVA of 1984 spore counts for G. fasciculatum complex by site revealed no significant differences between sites. One-way ANOVA of 1984 VAM root colonization data for bioassay plants showed significantly lower root colonization in plants grown in soil from the adjacent oat field than for plants grown in soil from other sites.
10.2307/2995983|Based on comparison of specimens of cultivated and wild individuals derived from a common population but grown under differing moisture regimes, the stability of qualitative anatomical features in relation to water availability was assessed for the wood of 39 species drawn from 34 dicot families. The most stable features were intervascular pitting pattern, presence of helical thickenings on vessel element walls, type of pore grouping, perforation plate morphology, occurrence of septate, gelatinous, and nucleated fibers, type of imperforate element, presence of vascular tracheids, and ray histology and morphology. Patterns of axial parenchyma distribution were stable with the exception of paratracheal types. The least stable characters were porosity, ratio of perforation plates in plate dimorphic woods, frequency of solitary vessels, relative frequency of pore grouping types, and abundance of vascular tracheids. Variations in the least stable characters had a predictable relationship with changes in water availability.
10.2307/2483549|Seeds of an early variety of rice were soaked with GA
10.2307/2484679|Achenes of Heterotheca subaxillaris var. subaxillaris (Compositae) exhibit germination dimorphism. Freshly-matured dise achenes are nondormant and will germinate in light and darkness over a wide range of temperatures, including those that simulate habitat temperatures at the time of dispersal in autumn. Ray achenes are dormant at dispersal and must afterripen before they can germinate. Afterripening of ray achenes is inhibited by low and promoted by high temperatures; therefore, germination is delayed for at least a year after dispersal. Low temperatures in the habitat during winter prevent afterripening, so achenes do not germinate in spring because they are dormant. High summer temperatures promote afterripening, and nondormant achenes germinate in autumn, if they are exposed to light. Germination dimorphism in H. subaxillaris var. subaxillaris helps spread germination of a seed crop through time and thus may be of survival value to the species in a particular habitat.
10.2307/2996564|American chestnut sprout populations were mapped on 14 sites of approximately 1 square kilometer in Connecticut and Massachusetts Living sprouts were nearly continuous in distribution at 2 of the 14 sites, almost completely absent from 2 other sites, and sparsely distributed, with local concentrations of high density, on the remaining 10 sites The highest densities of sprouts were found adjacent to old growth woodland that once contained chestnut seed sources. However, very few or no chestnut sprouts were found in the interior of old growth stands containing many chestnut snags and stumps. Differences in soil conditions and other natural factors do not fully account for the lack of chestnut reproduction on many of these sites. The absence of sprouts on suitable sites adjacent to former chestnut seed sources is attributed to the effects of former land use activities on chestnut seedling establishment in the years before chestnut blight, along with competitive exclusion of chestnut by more tolerant species on mesic sites. The present distribution of chestnut sprouts indicates that former forest edges, hedgerows, young stands of pioneer tree species in old fields, and shrub thickets on the margin of moist areas may have been especially suitable for chestnut seedling establishment. Some of these conjectures about the nature of chestnut seedling establishment are consistent with observations recorded by H. D. Thoreau in the mid-19th century
10.2307/2483412|Specimens from 15 species (9 herbaceous and 6 woody) common to the south-eastern coastal plain were excavated. The following weight relationships were determined by regression analysis using the method of least squares: root and shoot, shoot and height, root and height (log Y and log X respectively). In general, the mean root/shoot ratio increased from annuals, to herbaceous perennials, to woody perennials. Biennials and loblolly pine root/shoot ratios overlapped with herbaceous perennials. These data suggested that old field succession can be explained in part through an increase in root competition that must accompany the increase in root/shoot ratios of successive dominants. The dry weights of roots and shoots was found to be significantly correlated with height. It was suggested that this mathematical relationship may be used to modify present sampling techniques employed in standing crop, root production and mineral cycle studies.
10.2307/2996472|The vegetation at Hempstead Plains, Mitchell Field, Long Island, New York was collected on a weekly basis from April 12, 1986 to October 15, 1986 One hundred seventy-one specific and subspecific taxa of vascular plants were identified in 120 genera and 50 families Largest families are Poaceae (33 species) and Asteraceae (31 species) with Panicum and Solidago as largest genera. Thirty-eight per cent of the taxa are not native to the United States. Dominance of herbaceous taxa in the flora indicates the graminoid and herbaceous character of the Mitchell Field portion of the old Hempstead Plains prairie vegetation. However, a series of disturbances has initiated a very slow shift to old field succession
10.2307/2482047|1. Pairings of thirty monocaryon cultures of P. cinnabarinus showed the existence of four compatibility groups. 2. Two classes of monocaryon cultures, "slow" and "rapid" growers, were demonstrated on the basis of rate of growth on potato-dextrose-agar in Petri dishes. The "slow" growers were not slow because of a deficiency of thiamine. Rates of growth could not be correlated with the compatibility group of the culture. 3. In cultures derived from pairing of monocaryon mycelia there was no pattern discernible of how various cultures would influence the rate of growth of a dicaryon culture; the effect of any particular culture depended upon the culture with which it was paired.
10.2307/2482854|The genus Votomita aublet, most recently placed (with doubt) in the Rubiaceae, is found to be a melastome synonymous when emended with Meliandra Ducke and Coryphadenia Morley. These and other synonyms are displaced by Aublet's genus on the basis of priority. Reasons for past misinterpretations are discussed as are several features of morphology and anatomy. Provided are improved descriptions of the genus and of some species, a key to species, and the description of a plant new to science, V. orinocensis of Venezuela.
10.2307/2997010|Seven 1-ha plots were established in second-growth, mixed-species forests across a soil moisture gradient in the Coastal Plain of South Carolina. All trees in the plots were tagged in 1979 and measured in 1979 and 1989 to determine 10-yr recruitment of trees 4.5 cm DBH (ingrowth) and mortality. Ingrowth to mortality ratios and sums of ingrowth plus mortality were used to quantify shade tolerance and successional status of individual species. In all plots, small stem density decreased and large stem density increased, an indication that the forests were in mid-successional phases where competition is expected to be intense. Shade tolerant species, especially small tree life forms, had the greatest ratios of ingrowth to mortality. Large differences in population flux, even among shade tolerant species, indicated that different mechanisms can account for increases in populations of late-successional species. Within some species, ratios of ingrowth to mortality varied significantly across the gradient reflecting flooding or soil moisture effects on succession.
10.2307/2997025|Like other species of goldenrod, cross pollination is required for seed set in Solidago shortii T. & G., and the percentage of flowers that produce seeds in this narrow endemic is similar to that in some of its geographically-widespread congeners. In field studies, seed set was 22-25.2% in open-pollinated flowers, less than 1% in bagged flowers, 10.2% in hand-crossed flowers, and 0% in hand-selfed flowers. Seed set in hand-crossed and hand-selfed flowers in the greenhouse was 42.3% and 3.5%, respectively. The most frequent visitor to the flowers of S. shortii was the goldenrod soldier beetle, Chauliognathus pennsylvanicus, which is known to effect pollination in other Solidago species. Neither Apis nor Bombus was seen on inflorescences of S. shortii in the field. No major impact of herbivory was observed on the goldenrod. Thus, it appears that the narrow endemism of S. shortii cannot be explained on the basis of the breeding system and interactions with arthropods.
10.2307/2483955|The carbohydrate cycle of Carex bigelowii was determined in a sedge meadow at 1840 m with additional determinations made on 4 species in another site (1665 m). Data on phenology and microenvironment were gathered throughout the growing season to permit a correlation of carbohydrate fluctuation with plant development. Rhizome carbohydrates were depleted prior to the breaking of shoot dormancy and recovered slowly until the end of flowering. There was a decrease in rhizome and shoot carbohydrate during early seed set followed by a gradual rise, broken only by periods of cloudy, cold weather. With leaf coloration, seed dispersal, and the onset of winter dormancy, shoot sugar declined rapidly and rhizome starch increased proportionally. Total plant carbohydrate levels were high during periods of rapid shoot elongation.
10.2307/2483622|A pattern of herb distribution is described in its relation to a stand of Adenostoma fasciculatum. The annual herbs were distributed into three zones: one combination of species was found growing under the shrubs, a second constituted an extensive grassland adjacent to the shrub stand, and a third combination was found in a belt about 1 m wide between the shrub stand and the grassland. This distributional pattern was shown to develop at the time of herb seed germination. We have determined that various species of annuals associated with the shrub stand were excluded from the grassland by an allelopathic mechanism. One dominant grassland species shown to have an allelopathic potential was Avena fatua. The distribution of the dead straw of this grass was shown to be correlated with the differential germination of associated annual species: some species germinated in the presence of the straw while others did not. Once established, this pattern was maintained by additional organismic interactions.
10.2307/2484684|Polygalacturonase, pectinesterase and polygalacturonate lyase are produced in vitro by Fusarium oxysporum f. sp perniciosum. Pectinesterase and polygalacturonase but not polygalacturonate lyase activity were found in infected mimosa (Albizzia julibrissin) seedlings. Polygalacturonase activity increased weekly over a 4-week period and was found to be highest in leaf and lowest in root fractions. Column chromatography on Sephadex G-75 of filtrates from infected seedlings produced 3 separate "fractions" with viscosity reducing activity. Two of these fractions also had pectinesterase activity. No fraction had lyase activity.
10.2307/2484190|Woody seedlings and saplings inhabiting the most recently exposed one-third of a 375 m
10.2307/2997177|Climatic and flowering data from a site in the northern Sonoran Desert of southern Arizona were used to define flowering triggers and developmental requirements for 6 woody plants. These formulations were then used to predict flowering dates at a second northern Sonoran Desert site. It was determined that flowering is triggered by rain in Larrea tridentata (DC.) Cov., Fouquieria splendens Engelm., Encelia farinosa A. Gray, Ambrosia deltoidea (A. Gray) Payne and Acacia constricta Benth., and that flowering is triggered by photoperiod in Cercidium microphyllum (Torr.) Rose & Johnst. The base temperature for floral development in L. tridentata, F. splendens, E. farinosa, A. deltoidea and C. microphyllum is about 10<sup></sup>C. Their mean degree-day requirements range from 414 to 719. Acacia constricta requires 522 degree-days above 15<sup></sup>C. Minimum rainfall triggers varied from 9 mm for Ambrosia to 20 mm for Encelia. Flowering time in C. microphyllum may reflect phylogenetic constraints, while flowering time in F. splendens may be strongly influenced by pollinator availability. Flowering times of the remaining species seem constrained more by climate than by biotic considerations such as phylogeny, seed germination and competition for pollinators.
10.2307/2484257|Twelve collecting sites, all located on privately owned land and representing a total of six salvadorean departamentos, are described with respect to altitude, clinal zone, traveling time from San Salvador and general floristic attributes.
10.2307/2996300|Enzyme electrophoresis was employed to examine divergence between Lemna minuta H.B.&K. and L. valdiviana Phil., two nearly indistinguishable species comprising sect. Uninerves of Lemna Fifteen presumptive loci were resolved for 25 clones of Lemna minuta and 26 of L. valdiviana Genetic identity between the two species is 0.70, which is near the mean value for congeneric species of flowering plants, but is much higher than values reported for other species of Lemnaceae. With the exception of two clones, the taxonomic designations of the strains correlated with monomorphism for alternative alleles at two MDH loci. The two species are highly differentiated at two other loci as well. Although the taxa are morphologically similar, they differ in geographic distribution, flavonoid chemistry, and certain physiological and ecological attributes. The relatively high identity at allozyme loci compared to other Lemnaceae suggests that L. minuta and L. valdiviana are closely related and recently diverged sister species.
10.2307/2484375|Atriplex leucophylla is an evergreen perennial which grows between 39
10.2307/2483567|Changes in root:shoot ratio with age are described for a number of herbaceous and woody species. Andropogon sudanensis and Arena sativa show an initial increase in root:shoot ratio and then a decline. A number of tree species show increases in root:shoot ratios for periods up to 37 weeks. Data for various ages from 7 to 37 weeks show increases in root :shoot ratios with increase in age for actively growing seedlings of Pinus radiata, P. sylvestris, Eucalyptus baxteri and Picea abies, and a constant ratio for Betula verrucosa.
10.2307/2996545|To measure vegetative and reproductive plasticity, survival, growth, and reproduction of Impatiens capensis, populations were studied in eight habitats of widely varying light and soil moisture. Maximum seedling densities ranging from 73 to 2,117 m
10.2307/2484009|Digitaria sanguinalis (crabgrass) is prominent early in the first stage of old-field succession in central Oklahoma and southern Kansas, occurring sometimes in almost pure stands. It is one of the first species of that stage to be lost, however. It was postulated, therefore, that crabgrass might produce substances inhibitory to its own seedlings and to seedlings of associated species. Seed germination and seedling growth of Amaranthus retroflexus, Ambrosia elatior, Aristida oligantha, Bromus japonicus, Digitaria sanguinalis, and Helianthus annuus were inhibited by whole plant extracts, except for seed germination of A. oligantha and B. japonicus. Decaying crabgrass had no effects on germination or growth of test plants. Growth inhibitors were apparently released by crabgrass as root exudates and retarded the growth of most species tested. Three inhibitors, chlorogenic acid, isochlorogenic acid, and sulfosalicylic acid were identified in whole plant extracts. Sulfosalicylic acid was found only in fresh extracts, however. Crabgrass is inhibitory to many of the pioneer species of abandoned fields, including its own seedlings. Sorghum halepense, Helianthus annuus, and several species of Euphorbia are very inhibitory to crabgrass seedlings also. These are all species which are important in the first stage of old-field succession, and thus, the rapid disappearance of crabgrass from the weed stage may be due to inhibition by several of the early invaders including crabgrass itself. Crabgrass did not inhibit the germination of Aristida oligantha seeds, but unlike other species of the weed stage, it was inhibitory to the growth of A. oligantha seedlings. The rapid disappearance of crabgrass from the weed stage, however, would prevent this effect from having any bearing on the invasion of the old-field by A. oligantha, the dominant in the second stage of succession.
10.2307/2996494|Trees  4.5 cm DBH were mapped on seven, one-hectare plots along an elevational gradient in South Carolina These stands, ranging in location from a deep swamp to a bluff site, were analyzed in terms of Pielou's 
10.2307/2484523|In southern Chile, the authors collected a rather select group of Hepaticae which was subject to either tidal action or ocean spray. Hepaticae of the tidal region are chiefly weedy, polytypic, polystenic, widely distributed taxa. Drainage from the forested areas directly above the beaches and the high rainfall of the region are sources of fresh water for these plants. It is likely that this rather abundant and constant source of fresh water is a most critical factor for tidal zone Hepaticae. As a consequence we believe that one cannot argue from the occurrence of tidal zone Hepaticae in southern Chile that ocean dispersal of shoreline taxa is possible.
10.2307/2483769|Establishment of tree seedlings in early stages of old-field succession on soil derived from Triassic red shales of the piedmont of New Jersey is reported. The studies were made at the Hutcheson Memorial Forest preserve. On fields abandoned from cultivation at two-year intervals starting with 1958 permanent quadrats were established and sampled annually. Results showed that, as a rule, tree seedlings do not become established during the first year but begin to appear the second year, with new ones continuing to appear in successive years. Mortality of previously established individuals is also common during the early stages of succession. During early successional stages, when much bare soil is exposed, heaving due to freeze-thaw cycles in winter is one of the major influences in hindering early establishment of tree seedlings.
10.2307/2483078|1. The end result of introgressive hybridization is the gradual infiltration of germ plasm of one species into the germ plasm of the other, thereby bringing about increased variability in the species concerned. 2. The use of a pictorialized scatter diagram suggests that the variable populations in the Carex stans-bigelowii complex studied in northern Canada are due to introgressive hybridization.
10.2307/2996334|Woody vegetation in a 667 ha virgin subalpine forest in the White Mountains of New Hampshire was examined with (1) direct gradient analysis, incorporating the natural distribution of disturbance-created vegetation patches, over the elevational range of 600 to 1100 m and (2) sampling specifically in old-age vegetation patches. Disturbance patches exerted a major influence on vegetation patterning, occupying 39% of the total study area. They were formed primarily by windthrow; mass movements and fire were of minor importance. In the gradient analysis, density of live stems 5.0 cm DBH generally increased with elevation. Basal area rose to a maximum at 890 m elevation, then decreased towards higher elevations. Species' importance distributions changed independently with elevation. Old-age vegetation patches were dominated by red spruce and balsam fir and averaged 1189 stems/ha (2.5 cm DBH), a value lower than those reported from other old-age spruce-fir stands in New England, and 44.0 m<sup>2</sup>/ha basal area. The recent spruce mortality reported by Siccama et al. (1982) is a widespread form of disturbance at Crawford Notch.
10.2307/2483778|Polyembryony is reported in Ruellia humilis Nutt. (Acanthaceae) for the first time. The frequency of occurrence in 7,960 seeds was 0.075%. The parallel position of the twin embryos suggests that they may have originated by zygotic or embryonic cleavage.
10.2307/2996413|In 1976, an extensive ice storm struck southern Wisconsin, resulting in substantial damage to the upland forest at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee Cedar-Sauk Field Station. Strong northeasterly winds following the storm (80.6 km/hour) exacerbated the damage. A forest fuel sampling technique was modified to measure the volume of macro-litter resulting from the ice storm. The canopy was photographed using both wide-angle and fish-eye lenses to determine the effect upon the overstory. Macro-litter volume was determined to be 19.35 m
10.2307/2483432|Agropyron spicatum, 2n=14, was readily cross compatible with Sitanion hystrix, 2n=28. Thirty-six triploid hybrids, 2n=21, were produced on 5 unemasculated A. spicatum spikes when exposed to S. hystrix pollen. The synthetic and natural hybrids were morphologically indistinguishable, and their vegetative and spike characteristics were intermediate between those of the parent species. The hybrids closely resembled the description of A. saxicola. Comparison of synthetic and natural hybrids with the type specimen of A. saxicola confirmed the widespread suspicion that A. saxicola is actually a hybrid of A. spicatum x S. hystrix. The parent species and their natural and synthetic hybrids were examined cytologically to determine chromosome pairing relations. Both parent species were meiotically regular and fertile. The A. spicatum parent formed an average of 0.10 I and 6.95 II per cell in 187 cells interpreted at metaphase I, whereas the S. hystrix parent averaged 0.04 I and 13.98 II per cell in 142 cells. The hybrids were cytologically irregular at all meiotic stages and produced no seed. In 136 cells observed at metaphase I, the natural hybrids averaged 7.01 I, 6.94 II, and 0.04 III per cell; and the synthetic hybrids averaged 7.18 I, 6.84 II, and 0.05 III in 125 cells. Chromosome pairing in the hybrids was attributed to allosyndetic pairing of A. spicatum and S. hystrix chromosomes. The A. spicatum genome is apparently closely homologous with 1 of the 2 S. hystrix genomes. Genome formulae of A. spicatum, S. hystrix, and their hybrids were written as AA, AABB, and AAB, respectively.
10.2307/2484200|Analysis of the vegetation and soils of eastern North Dakota grassland reveals six major plant communities occupying a soil salinity-moisture gradient: Distichlis on wet, very strongly saline surface soil and strongly saline subsoil, Hordeum on wet strongly saline surface soil and very strongly saline subsoils, Spartina on moderately saline surface soil and subsoils of wet lowlands, Muhlenbergia on wet to moist sites with non-saline surface soil and strongly saline subsoil, Andropogon on moist to wet locations with non-saline surface soil and moderately saline subsoil, and Poa on a range of soils typically nonsaline and dry but sometimes moist with slightly saline surface soil and strongly saline subsoil. Soils with extremely high concentrations of soluble salts support zoned halophytic communities characterized by Salicornia and Puccinellia. The boundaries between communities may be abrupt or gradual, depending on the nature of the environmental gradient.
10.2307/2483736|Dormancy of the seeds of Astragalus tennesseensis Gray is due to the presence of an impermeable "hard" outer seed coat, a tough inner seed coat, and possibly an inhibitory substances(s) in the seed. It was found that the inner seed coat prevents germination of imbibed seeds by (1) exerting mechanical resistance to expansion and growth of the embryo and by (2) retarding the leaching of an inhibitory substance(s) from the embryo. Maximum percentage of germination was obtained at 25
10.2307/2996208|Aboveground and belowground net primary productivity estimates of the dominant angiosperms from two tidal marshes along the Delaware Bay estuary are reported. Ash, carbon and nitrogen content of the aboveground and belowground components were also determined. Annual net aboveground production was determined by the peak live standing crop method and the Smalley (1958) method. Aerial production of tall Spartina alterniflora Loisel. at the Canary Creek salt marsh, employing the Smalley technique, was 1487 g m
10.2307/2483314|When one lateral in a whorl of Pinus strobus L. is excised, it is found that the two laterals flanking the gap tend to displace horizontally and thereby tend to close the gap. This adjustment of form appears attributable to the formation of compression wood which becomes displaced away from the gap by an average of 21
10.2307/2484380|Two small slash-pile burns in clearings in central New York were colonized by seedlings of Rhus typhina. Since Rhus seedlings were confined to the burned areas, it is likely that the seedlings arose from buried seeds.
10.2307/2996626|In a brackish wetland dominated by Typha angustifolia, we found similar aboveground and belowground production at three sites which had very different salinity regimes. There were, however, significant differences between the three areas in shoot density, height, and biomass. Density was greatest in the site with highest salinity while height and biomass were greatest at the site with lowest salinity. There were also differences in the distribution of belowground biomass with roots and rhizomes restricted to shallower depths at the site with highest salinity. Long-term study plots in one area have shown that interannual changes in salinity can result in an almost 75% difference in net aboveground biomass.
10.2307/2995900|The vegetation of subalpine forests in the southwestern Virginia Balsam Mountains (Mount Rogers and Whitetop) was examined and compared to that of similar forests in the Great Smoky Mountains Differences in latitude and longitude were considered in comparing zonal distribution patterns The spruce-fir (Picea rubens-Abies fraseri) forest on Mount Rogers is similar in composition and distribution to those of the Great Smokies at equivalent elevations In contrast to Mount Rogers, subalpine forests on Whitetop are devoid of fir, although the upper 158 m seem environmentally suitable for its growth. It is believed that during the post-Wisconsin xerothermic period, fir was eliminated from Whitetop but found refuge on the taller Mount Rogers Although fir has been able to extend its range downward since the xerothermic period, it has been unable to cross the relatively low elevation gap separating the two mountains. Spruce forests, which might be expected to cover slopes between 1190 m and 1525 m in the Virginia Balsams, do not extend below 1430 m This seemingly truncated distribution may be a result of past human disturbance, but no substantive evidence is available The future structure of aphid-infested spruce-fir forests in the southern Appalachians may be predicted by examining the spruce forests on Whitetop, particularly at those elevations which are suitable for the development of spruce-fir
10.2307/2997088|Site factors, vegetation, and floras were determined for a chronosequence of five stands in order to characterize vegetation changes during succession. The stands were 2- and 10-year herb-dominated old fields, 50-year savanna-like old field, and 90-year and old-growth forests. Diversity was lowest in the 10-year old field and highest, along with species richness, in the 50-year, savanna-like stand. Percentages of both annuals and biennials (including short-lived perennials) in the flora decreased, while perennial herbs and woody plants increased. Biennials decreased and woody plants increased in relative cover in the ground layer, while annuals initially decreased and increased thereafter and perennial herbs initially increased and were relatively low in the forests. These findings are related to the interaction of several factors, as evidenced in other studies: chance events and disturbance as related to patch dynamics, time for accumulation of species, life-history characteristics of the available flora, development of a tree stratum, and site-specific history and environment.
10.2307/2997146|1. The thiamine, riboflavin, niacin and ascorbic acid content has been determined in 32 species of plants collected at the Point Barrow Base Camp, Alaska. All plants contain these vitamins, though the two species of lichens were very low in all of them. 2. Riboflavin is quite high and for most plants is around 11.0 and 14.0 micrograms per gram of dry material, but all the others vary greatly in the species studied.
10.2307/2483473|Ichnanthus tonkinensis, section Foveolata, from Vietnam is described as new.
10.2307/2481914|1. The structure of the shoot apex of Gnetum gnemon is described. The superficial layer has attained the status of a true tunica. It is discrete at the summit but contributes to the inner tissues of the foliar buttress and rarely may show periclinal divisions on the flanks. 2. The summit of the corpus is occupied by a group of initials which give rise to a flanking mantle of actively dividing cells and to a zone of underlying central mother cells. The flanking layers divide by both periclinal and anticlinal divisions. Division is in all planes in the central mother cell zone but is less frequent than in the flanking layers. The cells often appear in blocks, may be highly vacuolate and larger than their neighbors. A rib meristem is derived from the periphery of the central mother cell zone. During the initiation and early growth of the leaf primordia anticlinal divisions disrupt the rib meristem but it is reconstituted later in the first internode. 3. A comparison is made between the structure of the apex of Gnetum gnemon and that of other gymnosperms and angiosperms. It is concluded that Gnetum has attained the angiospermous level in the possession of a distinct tunica and corpus but that a gymnospermous trend is reflected in the organization of the central mother cell zone recalling the condition seen in the cycads and Ginkgo.
10.2307/2995911|The importance of tree bases as foci of spring herb growth, and the association of trees and herb distributions with microenvironmental gradients, were examined in Kilmer Woods, a central New Jersey forest dominated by Acer rubrum, A saccharum, Quercus borealis, and Q alba For Erythronium americanum and Podophyllum peltatum, there were no significant differences in the number of individuals or flowers between sampling plots near to and away from trees In outside sampling plots over the site, however, 60% of flowering Erythronium were located within 1 m of a tree base, while only 7% of flowering plants were further than 2 m from trees Leaf area of Erythronium was significantly greater in plots near trees Offshoot production and flowering data for Erythronium suggest that plants near trees produce fewer asexual offspring and provide greater allocation to bulbs until a flowering threshold is reached No consistent or common patterns of light quantity, soil or air temperature, or nutrient concentrations were found Soil moisture was consistently greater near trees, in the organic layer, and down-slope There was no coincidence of herb growth with proximity to trees or with measured microenvironmental factors
10.2307/2483479|Phytochrome decay in darkness in Avena coleoptiles was studied as the loss in  (O.D.) readings following a brief irradiation with red light which converts phytochrome into the P
10.2307/2482627|1. The inter-relationships and classification of the evergreen grapeferns (Botrychium subg. Sceptridium) are controversial because of subtle and overlapping characters. An investigation was made of characteristics of periodicity and pigmentation which might bear on their systematic interpretation. 2. Of the four taxa involved, the endemic Botrychium oneidense has been treated as a variety or form of the circumboreal B. multifidum and of the endemic B. dissectum or as their possible hybrid. The plant treated here as conspecific with B. ternatum of the Old World has either remained undistinguished or has been classified with B. multifidum or as a form of it. 3. The yearly cycle of these plants in northeastern North America begins with the slow formation of a single leaf, which may or may not expand a fertile "panicle." During winter the sterile leaf blade is evergreen but may turn reddish to bronze, especially when exposed. The new leaf bursts its sheath in May or June, and the previous year's leaf later dies. The maturation of the leaf and its fertile portion takes from three to four months, and is usually completed by September. 4. Environmental factors such as browsing and exposure of habitat affect leaf development; it is therefore necessary to make comparisons on plants from the same habitat. In the present work all specimens in a given site were taken, and the measurements made of total samples or of random selections of the samples. 5. Comparisons of vernation show that B. dissectum is the last to develop in the spring (early June); B. ternatum is slightly earlier; B. oneidense considerably earlier; and B. multifidum starts the earliest (est. late April, early May). The same periodicity relationships between taxa were found at each locality and apply as well to juvenile as adult plants. 6. The unfolding leaf primordia may be red or green. Botrychium dissectum and B. ternatum are pale scarlet or reddish, but those of B. oneidense and B. multifidum are green or pale green when first unfolding. 7. As the sporangia mature in August and September they change from green to yellow to brown. Periodicity of sporangial maturation follows the same sequence in the different taxa as primordial development, though less clearly. 8. Reddish pigmentation of the axes of mature blades in September and early October varies with habitat, but shows definite differences in the same habitat: B. dissectum and B. ternatum have the most extensive reddish pigmentation, B. multifidum and B. oneidense the least. 9. Leaf thickness does not seem to differ significantly between the taxa, but may be altered by habitat. However, the texture of the leaves may involve other factors than laminar thickness alone. 10. Botrychium oneidense differs in periodicity and pigmentation from all of the other taxa. The green color of its primordial leaf blades is evidently an absolute point of distinction between it and B. dissectum. 11. Botrychium ternatum is more like B. dissectum in periodicity and pigmentation than either B. oneidense or B. multifidum. On the basis of the characters studied here, a closer relationship to B. multifidum than B. dissectum seems unlikely. 12. The conclusions of these observations, when combined with previously known facts, suggest that the most accurate taxonomic treatment is to recognize each of the four taxa as distinct, though closely related, species.
10.2307/2996968|Both Talinum calcaricum Ware of the shallow soil of limestone outcrops and T. mengesii Wolf of similar habitat on sandstone outcrops were greatly reduced in growth in competition with the grass Poa pratensis L., and both were less inhibited as grass density decreased. Talinum mengesii was inhibited by both clipped (=root) competition and whole plant competition (includes shading), though more intensely by the latter. Talinum calcaricum was inhibited only by whole plant competition (=shading), and artificial decrease in light intensity also produced growth inhibition even without competition. Both species were inhibited on the other's soil type, even without competition or reduced light intensity. In an experiment involving only T. calcaricum, increasing drought stress reduced its growth, but reduced the grass competitor's growth much more, making T. calcaricum a relatively better competitor at lower moisture levels. Results are consistent with the notion that plants of the shallow soil of rock outcrops are very poor competitors (especially for light), but can survive in their habitats because of greater drought resistance than potential competitors.
10.2307/2484733|Spore morphology of the remaining 28 of the 62 species not treated in our previous paper is described. Spores of 14 species, members of 5 genera, are monolete; spores of 14 other species, belonging to 7 genera, are trilete. A perine is present in 20 of the species, in 3 it is reduced, and in 5 it is absent. Sculpture is mostly scabrate, echinate or verrucate and mean sizes vary from 33  (Dennstaedtia punctilobula) to 86  (Cheilanthes feei). Classification of the 28 species into 12 genera based on gross morphology is confirmed by spore morphology in most instances, and the taxonomic affinities of the 12 genera are discussed. Of the monolete genera, Phyllitis, Camptosorus, and Asplenium form a closely related group, whereas Woodwardia and Polypodium appear to have evolved independently. Of the trilete genera, Cheilanthes and Notholaena appear to be cogeneric and show a close affinity to Pellaea, whereas Cryptogramma, Adiantum, Pteridium, and Dennstaedtia are monotypic with no close relatives in northeastern North America. A species key and photomicrographs are included. The classification of the Polypodiaceae by Fernald (1950) is compared with that of Copeland (1947).
10.2307/2483856|Evaporative water loss in the foliose lichen, Parmelia conspersa and the marchantiaceous liverwort, Reboulia hemisphaerica was examined in the context of a total energy exchange between the plant and its environment (disregarding metabolism). Transpiration proceeds rapidly from moist plants and resistance is very low. As transpiration decreases, the relative importance of both convection and reradiation as energy dissipating mechanisms increases. Additionally, since both organisms lack effective means of controlling transpiration, resistance increases in proportion to the decreased water loss. Parmelia dried quickly under a total radiation flux of 3.0 cal cm
10.2307/2483642|The type species of Capnodiopsis P. Hennings was examined and found to be different from the original interpretation as a unique capnodiaceous fungus. Its position in the Myriangiales as Molleriella punctoidea (Rehm) Arnaud is confirmed.
10.2307/2482285|1. A microscopic analysis of the component parts of the basidiocarp seems to be a valuable tool for the determination of relationships among the stipitate Stereums. Using this method, relationships which have been previously overlooked are brought to light. 2. It is suggested that S. aurantiacum and S. diaphanum might be varieties. The same suggestion is offered as regards S. pusiolum and S. radicans. 3. It was found that S. cyphelloides, S. aurantiacum and S. diaphanum form a homogenous group within the stipitate Stereums. This group is characterized by its lack of clamp-connections and gloeocystidia and its monomitic hyphal construction. 4. S. pusiolum and S. radicans are the only other stipitate Stereums investigated which are monomitic, bear clamp-connections and have gloeocystidia. These species form a second group of related forms. 5. With the exception of the trimitic S. hydrophorum whose relationship is vague, all other stipitate Stereums discussed here are dimitic with skeletal hyphae, bear clamp-connections and are gloeocystidiate. 6. S. flabellatum has been found to be only a chlamydospore-bearing phase of S. elegans.
10.2307/2484121|Greenhouse tests show that Carex plantaginea and C. platyphylla are self-compatible and will set high percentages of seed when selfed. Only eight other Carex species are known to be self-compatible. The restricted pollen flow of these two species, coupled to self-compatability, may allow for more genetic subdivision of their populations.
10.2307/2996490|Marble parent material is a unique geological feature in north Georgia which, on steep lower north-facing slopes with seepage, accommodates equally unique soils and vegetation On lower north slopes, within 35 m distance from the stream, herb species cover is positively correlated with soil N, B, Ca, Zn, pH, and moisture and negatively correlated with soil Al, Fe, and Mo. Herb species diversity responds in an opposite manner to these same variables. Species on the study site vary in their occurrences as related to soil. Some show few or no significant simple correlations with soil variables. Other species are separable for the most part into two groups: (1) Arisaema triphyllum, Dentaria diphylla and Thalictrum thalictroides occur on more acid, less base-rich soil high in Al and Fe; whereas (2) Athyrium pycnocarpon, Cryptotaenia canadensis, Hydrophyllum canadense, and Impatiens sp, are found on more moist, base-rich, less acid soils with low available Al and Fe Niches are in part described by sets of soil chemical, physical, and moisture "preferences" Some herb species are indicators of soil characteristics; and likewise soil properties are indicators-at least locally-of presence or absence of some herb species Data indicate greatest herb cover on lowest positions and greatest herb diversity near to but up slope from the stream
10.2307/2996083|Branch systems of open- and forest-grown populations of Lonicera maackii(Rupr.) Herder (ages 4-0 years) were compared to assess potential modes ot leal display in different light environments. The branch architecture of open-grown individuals was interpreted as adaptive plasticity. Opengrown individuals when compared to forest-grown individuals were significantly (P < 0.05) taller and wider. This growth form was achieved as a result of increased branching and production of canopy-borne long shoots. The branch architecture expressed by forest-grown L. maackii was interpreted as an indirect response to light limitation rather than adaptive plasticity. Although forest-grown L. maackii expressed branch changes that could potentially maximize height gain (e.g., slower gains in canopy width relative to height gain, less growth in basal stem diameter, and decreased branching), these plants produced few long shoots and were roughly half as tall as open-grown individuals of similar ages. Emergence of L. maackii into a dominant understory position may require threshold light levels so that height gain can be achieved by long shoots released at successively higher canopy positions.
10.2307/2482992|1. The following free amino acids and amides were found in the species and isolates of the fungus Emericellopsis; aspartic acid, glutamic acid, 1 lysine, asparagine, serine, threonine, glutamine, tyrosine, gamma aminobutyric acid, valine, isoleucine and/or leucine, proline and an unknown spot. 2. There was considerable variability in the quantitative amount of these amino acids within and between species. 3. A variance analysis showed that there was significantly more lysine in the E. mirabilis species and its isolates than in the other members of the genus. 4. These data support the evidence for two species, i. e. mirabilis and terricola in the genus Emericellopsis.
10.2307/2482711|White oak and black oak collectively contribute 68 per cent to total basal area of canopy tree species; seedlings of these species are fairly common while saplings are rare. On the other hand, sugar maple and Norway maple collectively contribute less than 1 per cent to total basal area, but seedlings of these two maples are common and their saplings are more common than oak saplings. Sapling growth data for the 1956-58 seasons show that sugar maple saplings grew better in the shaded areas of the forest than did other species studied. The pre-colonial fires appear to have favored the oaks but excluded sugar maple. With the cessation of fire after settlement sugar maple seeded in from a nearby source on the flood plain or, as with Norway maple, from shade tree plantings.
10.2307/2484361|Anthochlor pigments (chalcones and aurones) in the floral heads of Coreopsis gigantea were found to be responsible for the ultraviolet floral pattern present in this species. The pigments of primary importance in producing the UV floral pattern were marein, sulphurein, coreopsin, butein, and sulphuretin. Presence of the anthochlor pigments and the UV floral pattern could be determined by observing a visual color change (yellow to reddish-orange) when the floral heads were exposed to ammonia vapor. This color change, characteristic of anthochlor pigments, is suggested as a simple field test to detect UV floral patterns in those families where anthochlor pigments are known to occur. It was also found that upon drying and storage as herbarium specimens the floral heads of C. gigantea lost their UV pattern, with the entire floral head becoming UV absorptive. We issue a cautionary note on the use of UV floral patterns from dried her barium specimens without direct knowledge of the UV floral patterns in fresh material.
10.2307/2484199|Patterns of species richness, dominance and Brillouin diversity are described for mature forests on serpentine and nonserpentine soils. Where continuous forest canopies can develop, increased dominance and reduced habitat heterogeneity result in lower diversity. Where conditions prevent a continuous canopy from developing, dominance is less pronounced and the habitat is more heterogeneous leading to increased diversity. Within either a continuous or an open forest, increased environmental rigor reduces diversity. A model is presented which details the interactions among rigor, competition, dominance, and habitat heterogeneity.
10.2307/2482934|Mineral composition of the foliage of certain trees and ornamentals was obtained by spectrochemical determination of 23 elements. Statistical analysis of these data indicate more differences in composition between species growing in the same soil than between plants of the same species growing in different soils. There was considerably more random variation in the content of non-essential than essential elements. Some advantages and disadvantages of the use of such data for diagnostic purposes are discussed.
10.2307/2483500|In the last five years two species of the genus Galinsoga Ruiz and Pavon, introduced into the United States from tropical America, have increased in abundance throughout New Jersey and Long Island, especially in fields used for vegetable production. Achenes collected from G. ciliata (Raf.) Blake and G. parviflora Cav. cultivated under similar conditions were compared employing length and width measurements. G. ciliata achenes were found to be significantly shorter and wider than those of G. parviflora. These differences were reflected in lower L/W ratios for G. ciliata. An abundance of minute cotyledonary hairs was observed on seedlings of G. parviflora, while the number of marginal cotyledonary hairs of G. ciliata was small.
10.2307/2482499|1. As a tribute to the botanical work of Carl D. LaRue, this article cites his success in obtaining a tissue culture from the pollen of Taxus. 2. The Taxus tissue is dense, white, and undifferentiated, and consists mainly of elongated "pollen tube" type cells. 3. The white tissue has given rise to a strain which is green and consists of small round cells. The green strain is friable and lacks the elongate type of cell typical of the white tissue. 4. Both strains of tissue will grow on a synthetic medium, but the rate of growth is slow.
10.2307/2996975|The dynamics of woody debris input and decomposition in temperate forest ecosystems are rarely examined. Woody detritus inputs in a mesic deciduous forest in Tennessee were followed from 1976 to 1988. Annual inputs were highly variable with a mean of 3.97 Mg ha
10.2307/2484921|An alternative to stand-age analysis was developed which enabled simple determination of successional trends in the forest canopy species through comparison of each species' DBH distribution. DBH-distribution analysis is shown to be less time consuming yet as accurate as stand-age analysis.
10.2307/2483754|A description of the soils and ponds explored at Mt. Suess is given. The algae collected consist of a green alga, Prasiola crispa, and several blue-greens.
