24126123|Papaya fruit (Carica papaya L. cv. 'Sunrise Solo') at pre-ripe (10 to 20 % surface yellow coloration) and ripe stages (70 to 80 % surface yellow coloration) of development were treated with 9 l l-1 of the ethylene antagonist 1-methylcyclopropene (1-MCP) for 18 h at 20 C and then stored at the same temperature. The hypothesis addressed was that fruit at both early and advanced stages of ripening would respond beneficially, in terms of extended shelf-life, and quality retention, to exposure to 1-MCP. For fruit of both ripening categories, respiration and ethylene production, firmness, electrolyte leakage, titratable acidity, pH, soluble solids, and visual changes were recorded during storage. Pre-ripe fruit treated with the ethylene antagonist exhibited a 2-day delay in the respiratory climacteric maximum and showed suppressed but steadily increasing ethylene production throughout storage. A reduction in respiration and ethylene production were also noted for fruit treated with 1-MCP at the ripe stage. The rate of softening of fruit of both ripening categories was significantly reduced in response to 1-MCP. Firmness of pre-ripe fruit declined 52 % over 9 days of storage compared with 30 % for 1-MCP-treated fruit over the same time period. Firmness of ripe fruit at the start of storage was initially 60 % lower than initial values for pre-ripe fruit; however, 1-MCP significantly suppressed further softening of ripe fruit, with 1-MCP-treated fruit declining only 15 % over 8 days of storage whereas controls softened 60 % over a 6-day period. Electrolyte leakage in pre-ripe fruit was significantly suppressed by 1-MCP treatment through 11 days of storage. Efflux was higher in ripe fruit compared with pre-ripe fruit, but leakage values in ripe fruit were not significantly affected by 1-MCP. Soluble solid levels were not significantly influenced by 1-MCP for fruit of either developmental stage whereas the ethylene antagonist affected titratable acidity and mesocarp pH. Fruit treated with 1 -MCP showed delayed loss of surface green colour in pre-ripe fruit and suppressed the intensity of yellow colour development of fruit treated when ripe. In informal sensory analyses, the period of table-ripe edibility of fruit treated when pre-ripe or ripe was extended 4 to 5 days and 3 to 6 days, respectively. Papayas (Carica papaya L. cv. 'Sunrise Solo') im unreifen (10 % bis 20 % gelbfarbige Schale) und im reifen Stadium (70 % bis 80 % gelbfarbige Schale) wurden fr 18 Stunden bei 20 C mit 9 l l-1 des Ethylen-Antagonisten 1-Methylcyclopropen (1-MCP) behandelt und dann bei derselben Temperatur gelagert. Die Hypothese war, dass sowohl unreife als auch reife Frchte, die 1-MCP ausgesetzt werden, eine verlngerte Lagerfhigkeit und bessere Beibehaltung der Qualitt zeigen wrden. Whrend der Lagerungszeit wurden Atmung, Ethylenproduktion, Festigkeit, Elektrolytverlust, titrierbare Sure, pH-Wert, lsliche Feststoffe und sichtbare nderungen bei den Frchten beider Reifestadien aufgezeichnet. Unreife Frchte, die mit dem Ethylen-Antagonisten behandelt wurden, zeigten eine zweitgige Verzgerung des klimakterischen Atmungsmaximums und eine unterdrckte, aber stetig ansteigende Ethylenproduktion whrend der Lagerungszeit. Eine Abnahme der Atmung und der Ethylenproduktion war auch bei reifen Frchten, die mit 1-MCP behandelt wurden, bemerkbar. Durch den Einsatz von 1-MCP konnte die Geschwindigkeit des Weichwerdens der Frchte in beiden Reifekategorien merklich verringert werden. Bei einer Lagerungszeit von neun Tagen verringerte sich die Festigkeit der unreifen Frchte in der Kontrollgruppe um 52 %, verglichen mit 30 % bei den mit 1-MCP behandelten Frchten. Die Festigkeit der reifen Frchte lag am Anfang der Lagerungsperiode bei 60 % der Festigkeit von unreifen Frchte; 1-MCP verlangsamte jedoch das weitere Weichwerden der reifen Frchte. Mit 1-MCP behandelte reife Frchte wurden ber einen Zeitraum von 8 Tagen um 30 % weicher, whrend die unbehandelte Kontrollgruppe innerhalb von nur 6 Tagen um 60 % weicher wurde. Der Elektrolytverlust wurde durch 1-MCP ber eine elftgige Lagerungszeit merklich verringert. Der Verlust war bei reifen Frchten hher als bei unreifen Frchten, wobei die Verluste nicht signifikant von 1-MCP beeinflusst wurden. Der lsliche Feststoffgehalt wurde durch 1-MCP in beiden Reifekategorien ebenfalls nicht beeinflusst. Der Ethylen-Antagonist beeinflusste allerdings die titrierbare Sure und den pH-Wert des Mesocarps. Mit 1-MCP behandelte Frchte zeigen im unreifen Stadium eine verzgerte Abnahme der grnen Bereiche auf der Schale und im reifen Stadium eine schwchere Ausbildung der gelben Bereiche. Eine formlose sensorische Analyse ergab eine verlngerte Zeitspanne fr servierfertige Frchte von 4 bis 5 Tagen bei unreifen und 3 bis 6 Tagen bei reifen Frchten.
24126498|The study of cold hardiness is important because freeze injury is a leading cause of walnut yield losses in many cold regions of Europe and Asia. In this study, three methods of determining cold acclimation in walnut cultivars/genotypes were compared: 1) electrolyte leakage measurement (EL); 2) triphenyl tetrazolium chloride assay (TTC) and; 3) proline analysis. Stems of eight walnut cultivars and genotypes were cut and collected every month from November 2007 to April 2008. EL was conducted using uniform pieces inserted into plastic vials programmed to decrease their temperature by 2 C h-1 to freezing temperatures of -5, -10, -15, -20, -25 and -30 C. The electrolyte leakage from frozen stem tissues was captured in solution and measured using an electrical conductivity meter. Tissue injury was also assessed by TTC analysis using stem segments cooled under controlled temperatures at 2 C h-1 to set temperatures ranging from 5 to -30 C and results were quantified using a spectrophotometer. Proline content of fresh stem tissues was determined using the Bates method. Cold hardiness of samples increased with accumulated seasonal chilling and decreased as they approached spring bud break. A 1.4 to 2.7 fold increase in proline content was observed in stems from November to midwinter. LTsos (temperature causing 50 % lethal injury) ranged from -5.8 to -10 C in November, -12.5 to -19.3 C in midwinter and -5.8 to -9.2 C in early spring. Using both the EL and TTC methods, cultivars and genotypes were classified into three groups based on their cold hardiness: sensitive ('Z3o' and 'Serti), semi-hardy ('Z53', 'Z67', and 'Hartley') and hardy ('Lara', 'Z63' and 'Pedro').
24126237|Cultivation of medicinal plants under controlled environment is a good opportunity to study the influence of main exogenic factors on herbal yield and quality. Such studies can give new data about the yield raise of species, as well as about improvement of content and composition of bioactive substances with practical applications. The main purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of different air temperatures (15, 20, 25 C) under controlled environment conditions on herbal yield and content, composition and antioxidative capacity of secondary metabolites of lemon catmint (Nepeta cataria L. f. citriodora), lemon balm (Melissa offinalis L.) and sage (Salvia officinalis L.). It was found, that tested air temperatures had substantial influence on productivity of studied medicinal plants under controlled environment conditions. In case of lemon catmint 20 C gave maximum raw medicinal material, for lemon balm 25 C was more effective, while in sage, both 20 and 25 C were optimal compared to the lowest temperature treatment (15 C). In lemon catmint and sage, 15 and 25 C temperatures provided high content of essential oil, while 20 and 25 C treatments gave maximum recovery of essential oil. In case of lemon balm, 25 C temperature gave high content and yield of essential oil. The composition of herbs' essential oil essentially depended on air temperature, as well as on harvest rounds. Air temperatures had less effect on content of flavonoids. However some differences were noted in connection with harvest rounds. Antioxidative capacity of flavonoid-rich extracts by ABTS-system showed differences according to air temperatures and first or second cut. Die Kultivierung von Arzneipflanzen unter kontrollierten Anbaubedingungen im hydroponischen System bietet eine gute Mglichkeit, viele exogene Einflussfaktoren auf Kruterertrag und Qualitt zu ermitteln. Durch solche Experimente knnen neue Erkenntnisse ber die Erhhung des Ertrags der Pflanzenarten sowie ber die Vernderung der Inhaltsstoffe und die Zusammensetzung von biologisch aktiven Substanzen fr praktische Anwendungen gewonnen werden. Hauptschlich sollte mit dieser Arbeit die Wirkung von verschiedenen Lufttemperaturen (15, 20, 25 C) unter kontrollierten Umgebungsbedingungen auf Kruterertrag, Inhalt und Zusammensetzung der therischen le, Flavonoidgehalt und antioxidative Kapazitt von flavonoid-reichen Extrakten in Zitronen-Katzenminze (Nepeta cataria L. f. citriodord), Zitronenmelisse (Melissa officinalis L.) und Salbei (Salvia officinalis L.) untersucht werden. Lufttemperaturen haben einen wesentlichen Einfluss auf die Produktivitt der untersuchten Arzneipflanzen. Die Zitronen-Katzenminze gab bei 20 C maximalen Kruterertrag, fr die Zitronenmelisse waren 25 C wirksamer, whrend bei Salbei sowohl 20 und 25 C verglichen mit der niedrigsten Temperaturbehandlung (15 C) optimal waren. Bei Zitronen-Katzenminze und Salbei fhrten Temperaturen von 15 und 25 C zu einer Erhhung des Gesamtgehalts an therischem l, whrend der Ertrag bei 20 und 25 C sein Maximum hatte. Im Falle der Zitronenmelisse waren 25 C als optimal anzusehen. Die Zusammensetzung der therischen le der untersuchten Kruterarten hing im wesentlichen von der Lufttemperatur sowie vom Erntezeitpunkt ab. Auf den Gehalt an Flavonoiden hatte die Lufttemperatur keinen greren Einfluss. Jedoch wurden Unterschiede im Zusammenhang mit dem Erntezeitpunkt bemerkt. Die antioxidative Kapazitt von flavonoid-reichen Extrakten im ABTS-System zeigte Unterschiede hinsichtlich Lufttemperatur und Erntezeitpunkt.
24126909|Tall fescue is moderately tolerant to salinity with great potential for use as turf grass under saline conditions. The objective of this study was to investigate the growth habit and nutrient uptake of tall fescue under salinity stress. Two tall fescue cultivars, 'Tar Heel II' and 'Wolf-pack' were seeded in plastic tubes filled with washed silica sand. Salinity treatment was applied by adding NaCl and CaCl2 (1:1 w/w) to the Hoagland solution in 16 g L-1. Salinity resulted in an average tiller number reduction of 50 % compared to the control, with 'Wolf-pack' showed 5 % more reduction than 'Tar Heel II'. Root/shoot ratio was not affected by salinity treatment (P > 0.05). The tiller appearance rate (TAR) (0.4 week-1) and leaf appearance rate (LAR) (0.35 week-1) of tall fescue plants under salinity stress were significantly lower than the TAR and LAR of control, 1.90 week-1 and 1.0 week-1, respectively. It appeared that TAR was more affected than LAR by the stress. Salt treatment also reduced the uptake of K+ and Mg2+, but increased the uptake of Na+ and Ca2+ in the shoots of tall fescue. Salt treatment did not increase Ca2+ in the roots of tall fescue. In conclusion, maintaining K+, Ca2+ and Mg2+ ionic balance in the shoots is important to improve the stress tolerance in tall fescue as indicated by a higher TAR.
24126432|Non-destructive methods to determine leaf areas are a useful tool in plant physiology and agronomy research. Determining the leaf area in persimmon (Diospyros kaki L.f.) involved measurements of leaf length and width. A two-year investigation was carried out during 2006 (on twelve genotypes) to develop a model and in 2007 (on one cultivar) to validate this model and to estimate the leaf area across persimmon genotypes and environments in Italy. Regression analyses of leaf area versus leaf length and width revealed several models for estimating the leaf area in persimmon. A linear model having leaf length  width as the independent variable (LA = 3.83 + 0.69LW) provided the most accurate estimate (R2=0.98, MSE=14, PRESS=32843) of leaf area in persimmon in 2006. Validation of this model in 2007 on one other genotype gave a close correlation and a high R2 indicating that leaf area may generally be accurately determined from leaf length and width measurements in persimmon.
24126837|A pot experiment was conducted to compare the growth and nutritional status of Rosa 'Mariandel' grown in media containing slightly decomposed Sphagnum peat [peat] and a mixture of 60 % peat and 40 % substrate-compost [v/v, peat-reduced]. Both media received Osmocote (15N-4P-7.5K-l.8Mg) at N rate of 0.8 g L-1. Plant and media samples were taken at potting and after 6,12,18, and 24 weeks. Most physical and chemical properties differed significantly (P  0.05) between media types. However, the media had limited or no effect on non-destructive plant measurements including diameter at the base of old shoots, length of longest new shoots, number of flowers and new shoots, crown volume, leaf colour, and disease incidence. Plants grown in the peat-reduced medium, however, produced greater dry mass and had a higher K concentration and content in flowers, roots, old and new shoots. In contrast, the concentrations and contents of N and Mg were higher in the peat-grown plants with no significant difference in P. Therefore, amending peat with 40 % substrate-compost [type I] resulted in plants with similar growth appearances as compared to the pure peat but differed in the nutritional status.
24126914|Zoysiagrass (Zoysia spp. Willd.) is a sustainable choice for the Mediterranean area, being identified as grass species adapted to low-input environments (limited water requirements, no fertilizer or pesticides after establishment). A distinct drawback in the transition zone is winter dormancy, a temporary suspension of visible growth, followed by discoloration and loss of functionality. In order to investigate the genotype/species effect in relation with agro-meteorological conditions, 10 cultivars/experimental lines were screened for their ability to extend the winter colour retention. A two years field study was conducted on mature swards and evaluated during the onset of dormancy and spring green-up using digital image analysis. For both parameters, in both years, the Authors observed a wide range of cultivar responses. Zoysia japonica genotypes in our study provided significantly shorter dormancy period than fine-leaved genotypes. In some instances, there were as much as 35 and 20 d difference between entries in respect to the winter colour retention and spring onset, respectively. The identification of genotypes with shorter dormancy than 'Meyer' (industry standard) may reduce use of cultural practices, as late-season nitrogen or iron application, normally used to extend the winter colour retention of zoysiagrass in late fall or early spring, showing different levels of success.
24126639|Effects of different temperatures (7, 15, 25 and 30 C) on in vitro pollen germination and pollen tube growth were evaluated in six strawberry cultivars, including 'Allstar', 'Cavendish', 'Chandler', 'Elsanta', 'Elvira' and 'Selva'. Except for 'Elsanta', the viabilities of pollen from all cultivars were found considerably high in 2, 3, 5-triphenly tetrazolium chloride (TTC) stain test. Temperature has a significant effect on pollen germination and pollen tube growth. The highest pollen germination occurred at 30 C for 'Chandler' and 'Selva' but at 25 C for 'Elsanta', 'Cavendish', 'Allstar' and 'Elvira'. A longer incubation period increased the rate of in vitro pollen germination and all cultivars showed the highest germination percentage after 24 hours of incubation. In vitro elongation of pollen tubes was clearly affected by incubation temperature, and cultivars reached their maximum pollen tube growth at different temperature.
24126270|This research was carried out in order to determine changes in respiration rate, internal ethylene, external ethylene, 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) oxidase activity, flesh firmness, fruit colour, sugar (sucrose, glucose and fructose) and organic acid (citric and malic) during preharvest maturity period in 'Esme' and 'Cukurgobek' quince cultivars and to present the usability level of especially ethylene production as harvest criterion in quince. For this reason, fruits were sampled at weekly intervals from 90th day after full bloom till the beginning of climacteric rise in respiration rate. Either internal or external ethylene production was fluctuated during preharvest period. However, ethylene production did not tend to increase sharply while respiration rate was decreasing. Correlation coefficients and variation between years proved that ethylene production could not be used as harvest criterion. Internal ethylene production of 'Esme' and 'Cukurgobek' cultivars were changed between 0.11.7 l l-1 and 0.24.7 l l-1, external ethylene between 0 1.8 l kg-1 h-1 and 02.4 l kg-1 h-1, activity of ACC oxidase enzyme between 00.9 l l-1 and 0 1.9 l l-1, respectively. While regular decreases in flesh firmness of quince fruits during preharvest period were observed, increases with fluctuations in sugar and organic acid content were determined. In this research, fructose and malic acid were found as the dominant sugar and organic acid in quince. Diese Untersuchung wurde durchgefhrt, um bei Quitten der Sorten 'Esme' und 'Cukurgobek' in der Wachstumsperiode vor der Ernte die Vernderungen des Gehalts an internem und externem thylen, der Aktivitt der 1-Aminocyclopropan-1-Carboxylsure (ACC)-Oxidase, der Atmungsintensitt, der Fruchtfleischfestigkeit, der Fruchtfarbe, der Zucker (Saccharose, Glukose und Fruktose) und der organischen Suren (Zitronensure, Apfelsure) herauszufinden und insbesondere die Eignung der thylenproduktion als Erntekriterium aufzuzeigen. Fr diesen Zweck wurden Fruchtproben in einwchigen Intervallen ab 90 Tage nach der Vollblte bis zum klimakterischen Atmungsminimum der Frchte entnommen. In dieser Zeit wurden bei den Quitten sowohl bei der internen als auch bei der externen thylenproduktion Schwankungen beobachtet. Darber hinaus konnte im Gegensatz zur Minderung der Atmungsstrke keine signifikante Erhhung der thylenproduktion beobachtet werden. Korrelationsrechnungen und zwischen den Jahren auftretende Schwankungen zeigen, dass die thylenproduktion bei den Quitten nicht als Erntekriterium verwendet werden kann. Bei den Quittensorten 'Esme' und 'Cukurgobek' vernderte sich die thylenproduktion intern um 0.11.7 l l-1 bzw. 0.2 4.7 l l-1 und extern um 01.8 l kg-1 h-1 bzw. 0 2.4 l kg-1 h-1. Die Enzymaktivitt der ACC-Oxidase vernderte sich um die Werte 00.9 l l-1 und 0 1.9 l l-1. Bei den Quitten wurde in der Periode vor der Ernte eine regelmige Abnahme der Fluchtfleischfestigkeit beobachtet, whrend in dieser Periode der Gehalt an Zuckern und organischen Suren zunahm. Bei dieser Untersuchung wurden Fructose und Apfelsure als der dominierende Zucker bzw. die dominierende organische Sure in den Quittenfrchten festgestellt.
24126836|The concept of deducing nutrient uptake from shoot fresh or dry matter (Alt 1990) was reassessed for Acer pseudoplatans and Sorbus aucuparia. These species are representatives of stress tolerator resp. competitor species, which differ in their allocation of biomass and nutrients to aboveground and belowground biomass. Competitor plants allocate more resources to the shoots, while stress tolerators invest more in root growth. The experiment was carried out in a partly randomized block design with eight replications. One year old seedlings were planted in autumn 2003. Sampling took place in autumn 2004, 2005, and 2006. Fertilization was carried out with 'Entec blue special' (12+12+17) each May after an Nmin-analysis of the soil (060 cm) to give 60 kg N ha-1. At sampling, plants were divided into this year's shoots, old shoots and into roots. Dry matter and N-, P-, and K-concentrations were determined in the different plant parts. Sorbus a. had a higher shoot-to-root ratio than Acer p.. This is consistent with the growth habit of a competitor resp. stress tolerator species. In the shoot the concentration and content of N and K in most cases was higher in Acer p. than in Sorbus a., for P the differences were not as frequently. In the roots Acer p. always had a higher N-, P-, and K-concentration than Sorbus a., the fertilized Acer p. also had a higher content of these nutrients than Sorbus a.. The proportion of nutrients contained in this year's shoot decreased from 7080 % for the two years old seedlings to approx. 48 % in the four years old tress. The proportion of N, P, and K stored in the roots differed widely. The N-content of this year's shoot in most cases was underestimated when deducing it from its dry matter. This was more pronounced for Acer p. compared to Sorbus a.
24126679|Water resources are limited worldwide and there is a need to develop water-saving irrigation practices. Here we applied partial rootzone drying (PRD) to 'Petopride' processing tomato plants with the alternate sides of the root system (RS) being exposed to various extents of soil dryness. The treatments were: daily full irrigation (FI) in both sides of RS considered as the control; and irrigating only one side of the RS for two (PRD2), four (PRD4), and six (PRD6) consecutive days before irrigation was shifted over to the dry side of the RS for the same periods. Leaf water potential, photosynthetic rate, total fresh mass of fruit and total dry mass of fruit significantly reduced in PRD treatments relative to FI. But irrigation water-use efficiency was improved in the PRD treatments. A lower percentage of dry mass was partitioned into the PRD fruit, which had lower fruit water content and higher total soluble solids concentration than the FI fruit. Fruit skin colour was the same for all the treatments. Blossom-end rot incidence was higher in PRD fruit than the FI fruit although their calcium concentration was the same. PRD saved irrigation water by 50 %, but total dry mass of fruit was reduced by 23 %. However, the considerable saving of water could make PRD feasible in areas where water is scarce and expensive.
24126386|The aim of our study was to find new thinning methods for organic apple production able to fulfil the standards of Bio Suisse, the main label organisation of the organic food sector in Switzerland. The 15 trials reported were carried out during flowering period in the years 2003, 2004 and 2005 on the cultivars 'Pinova', 'Gala', 'Maigold', 'Elstar', 'Braeburn', 'Golden Delicious' and 'Otava' at different sites. The results confirm the good efficiency of mechanical thinning with the rope thinner and the thinning potential of vinasse, a by-product of molasses. Different vinasse products were tested (K-Vinasse, light-vinasse, N-Vinasse; NK-Vinasse) and it was observed that those containing less nitrogen had a minor thinning effect. To avoid phytotoxicity on leaves, the concentration of N-Vinasse should not exceed 10 %. It seems that for 'Gala' higher concentrations are needed, 7.5-10.0 %, whereas with 'Maigold' the efficacy of N-Vinasse was the same with the 2.5 % concentration as with 5 % and 10 %. On the other hand, partly good results were obtained when N-Vinasse was over-concentrated to 12 or 15 %, applied at warm weather and rinsed with clear water 4-6 h later to avoid the phytotoxic effect ("burn and rinse" method). Corn Oil (5 %), a commercial product from New Zealand, gave encouraging results. Lime sulphur (2 %) did not effectuate a significantly better thinning effect. The best method tested with a fruit set reduction by 62 % and 3,05 times higher flower bud set next year was achieved with a combination of rope thinner and N-Vinasse: rope thinner to thin the peripheral branches and to exert a physiological stress; and N-Vinasse to thin the inner parts of the canopy that the ropes can't reach. Other tested products did not show satisfying effects. Trials also confirmed the importance of applying these thinning agents at least two times, at the appropriate phenological stage of flowering period mainly at F2 (full bloom) and G (= F2 of the one-year old shoots) and in case at F (king flower open). Hitting also the flowers of the one-year old shoots is important to break bi-annual bearing. Pollen tube growth was assessed by fluorescence microscopy. Almost complete inhibition of pollen tube germination was observed with lime sulphur and over-concentrated N-Vinasse (12 %) whereas with N-Vinasse at 5 % inhibition was 50 % less compared to untreated styles. Overlooking all trials, combining N-Vinasse and rope thinner was the most efficient strategy for flower thinning. However, after our trials, its efficacy seems to depend strongly on climatic conditions and phenological stages: treatments with N-Vinasse should be carried out at warm and sunny days above 16, better 18-20 C. to maximize desiccation on the styles; whereas the rope thinner should be applied during periods of cold and clouded weather to maximize the thinning effect due to physiological stress and shortage of assimilates to the fruitlets.
24134263|The effects of rain protective tree covering on sweet cherry quality parameters: fruit weight, concentration of individual sugars, organic acids, anthocyanins and other phenolics, fruit colour and fruit decay because of fruit cracking and rotting were analyzed on 'Hedelfinger', 'Kordia', and 'Regina' sweet cherry (Prunus avium L.) on the rootstock 'Gisela 5' in 2006. Half of the trees of each cultivar were covered 5 to 6 weeks prior to harvest and the other half was grown without a covering. Tree covering reduced crop losses due to fruit cracking and rotting without negative effects on fruit quality. Covers significantly reduced percentage of cracked 'Hedelfinger' fruit (13.6 %) and of rotten 'Regina' fruit (4.6%). Tree covers had no significant influence on sweet cherry fruit weight, fruit from covered trees had higher fruit weight (4.0 % in 'Hedelfinger', 19.9 % in 'Kordia' and 6.5 % in 'Regina'). Colour parameters L*, a*, and b* significantly changed by covering in 'Hedelfinger' and a* in 'Kordia'. Systematically higher (not significantly) concentrations of sugars (sucrose, glucose, fructose and sorbitol) and organic acids (citric, malic, shikimic and fumaric acid) were measured in fruits under covers. There was no significant effect of covering on the concentrations of phenols (neochlorogenic acid, p-coumaroylquinic acid, chlorogenic acid, epicatechin and rutin) and anthocyanins (cyanidin 3-glucoside, cyanidin 3-rutinoside, pelargonidin 3-rutinoside and peonidin-3-rutinoside).
24126313|Dormant single cane (15 cm) plants of 'Autumn Bliss' and 'Polana', primocane-fruiting red raspberry (Rubus idaeus L.) plants from the UK, were sent to the Agricultural Research Institute of Cyprus in December 2001 after they had already received an unknown amount of field chilling (x days). The plant material after arrival was additionally chilled at 4 C in order to escalate the production and to ensure an adequate fruiting since for raspberry production chilling plays a significant role. The treatments were x, x+16 and x+32 days of chilling. Afterwards the plants were planted in a soilless plant bed system in an unheated plastic greenhouse. The planting density was 4.1 canes m-2. 'Autumn Bliss' had greater cane vigour, flowered earlier, and produced a higher yield with acceptable berry mass, while 'Polana' did not produce flowers in time to yield a sufficient crop before summer (21 June 2002). The additional chilling (AC) reduced cane length, node number, and leaf area for both cultivars but no clear influence was observed on internode length, cane diameter and time to flowering. AC increased the number of fruiting nodes and berry mass for 'Autumn Bliss', whereas this result was not the case in 'Polana'. Our study confirms the hypothesis that raspberries can grow and be produced efficiently in the semi-arid climate of Cyprus. These results also imply that there may be a good prospect for an off-season production system for primocane-fruiting red raspberries in Cyprus and Southern Europe. Ruhende eintriebige (15 cm) Pflanzen der am einjhrigen Holz fruchtenden Himbeer- (Rubus idaeus L.) Sorten 'Autumn Bliss' und 'Polana' wurden im Dezember 2001 von Grobritanien an das Agricultural Research Institute auf Zypern geschickt, nachdem sie bereits eine unbekannte Summe (x Tage) Khltage auf dem Feld verbracht hatten. Nach der Ankunft wurde das Pflanzenmaterial zustzlich bei 4 C kltebehandelt, um die Erntemenge zu steigern und sicherzustellen, da die Kltebehandlung bei der Himbeerproduktion eine wichtige Rolle spielt. Die Behandlungen dauerten x, x+16 bzw. x+32 Khltage. Anschlieend wurden die Pflanzen in einem unbeheizten Kunststoffgewchshaus in ein erdeloses Pflanzsystem ausgepflanzt. Die Pflanzweite betrug 4.1 Triebe m-2. 'Autumn Bliss' wies ein strkeres Wachstum auf, blhte frher und produzierte eine grere Erntemenge mit akzeptabler Beerenmasse, whrend 'Polana' nicht rechtzeitig blhte, um vor dem Sommer (21. Juni 2002) eine ausreichende Erntemenge zu erzielen. Die zustzliche Khlung (AC) reduzierte bei beiden Sorten die Trieblnge, die Nodienzahl, und die Blattflche, wohingegen bei der Internodienlnge, dem Triebdurchmesser und der Dauer bis zur Blte kein deutlicher Einfluss nachweisbar war. Bei 'Autumn Bliss' erhht AC die Anzahl fruchtender Nodien und die Beerenmasse, whrend dies bei 'Polana' nicht der Fall war. Unsere Untersuchung sttzt die Hypothese, dass Himbeeren im semiariden Klima auf Zypern erfolgreich angebaut werden knnen. Die Ergebnisse deuten auerdem daraufhin, dass eine gute Perspektive fr den Anbau von am einjhrigen Holz fruchtenden roten Himbeeren auerhalb der Saison auf Zypern und in Sdeuropa besteht.
24126715|The aim of this work was to evaluate whether there are climate factors that counteract the negative effect of continuous light on the vase life of roses. Continuous lighting is desirable because of the reduction of powdery mildew in roses under this condition. In two experiments, we examined the effects of variations in air humidity, temperature and super-elevated CO2 concentration on two rose cultivars grown under continuous artificial lighting (190 mol m-2 s-1 photon flux density, PFD). There were two rose flushes in Experiment 1; the first under very low daylight conditions in January/February (average 2.5 mol m-2 day-1 PAR), the second in March/April (average 10.5 mol m-2 day1 PAR). In the first flush, simulating greenhouse ventilation by a 6-h increase in vapour pressure deficit (VPD) from 550 to 900 Pa, combined with a drop in CO2 concentration from 800 mol mol-1 to 380 mol mol-1, significantly increased vase life compared with constant low VPD/constant 800 mol mol-1 CO2. Dividing the 6-h simulated ventilation period into three 2-h periods throughout the photoperiod further increased vase life in one of the two cultivars. Exposing the roses to a similar 6-h increase in VPD by increasing the temperature from 19 to 29 C (while keeping air humidity constant at 80 % RH) was just as effective as the simulated ventilation treatments. While 6 h of super-elevated CO2 concentration (4700 mol mol-1) had no effect on vase life in one cultivar, it did have some effect in both flushes in the other one. Varying the VPD resulted in similar vase life as in roses growing under a 4-h dark period. In the second flush, with much more daylight, there were minor differences in vase life between treatments. In Experiment 2, under very low daylight (November/December), a constant VPD of 290 Pa (90 % RH) resulted in a very short vase life. A 6-h increase in VPD to 550 Pa (by decreasing RH from 90 to 79 %) significantly increased vase life. In one of the two cultivars, vase life was even longer than at a constant high VPD (630 Pa). Generally, a positive correlation was found between vase life and the ability of detached leaves to control water loss. The implications for practical greenhouse production are discussed.
24126289|Genetic distances between nineteen Dahlia cultivars and three genotypes of wild Dahlia species and a hybrid were analysed with 1432 AFLP-Markers generated by 10 Hind/Mse primer combinations. Markers were transformed into a 0/1-matrix and relative distances were computed by means of the Jaccard-coefficient. From these data a dendrogram was constructed by the UPGMA-method. In the dendrogram the cultivars cluster together into one group, while the wild species and the hybrid branched off at a larger genetic distance. The level of genetic similarity of the cultivars averaged between 0.68 and 0.77. Only two varieties displayed a similarity of 0.92 to each other. This relatively large genetic distance between the cultivars indicates a vast potential for further variety development. Within the cultivars different clusters are formed which do not show any relation to phenotypic characteristics like inflorescence morphology or breeding origin. This lack of correlation indicates that a classification of dahlias into horticultural groups does not reflect genetic relationships between cultivars. Therefore, this classification should not be used to select parents for further breeding apart for the few characters it is built on. With knowledge about the genetic background additional information for the selection of genotypes as parent in breeding is available. Genotypes can be choosen for their low level of relatedness or for their genetically characteristics independent from the horticultural type.
24126481|For artichoke cultivars grown for the fresh market a sizable "heart" and outer bracts with high contents of inside flesh are potentially favourable characteristics. We suggest a simple and accurate method for determining the edible fractions of artichokes. Edible parts of stem, outer bracts, inner bracts, as well as pappus and receptacle were determined based on partitioning of cooked buds. The heart fraction was calculated as the sum of edible inner bracts, pappus and receptacle divided by the drained weight. The total edible fraction was calculated as the sum of all edible parts divided by the drained weight. Differences in edible fractions were detected between seed artichoke cultivars 'Imperial Star' and 'JW 109'. The method described may contribute to a more detailed quantification of artichoke quality.
24134268|Bell pepper (Capsicum annuum L., cv. 'Mercury') response to full and deficit irrigation was studied during the 2005 growing season at Tal Amara research station in the Central Bekaa valley of Lebanon. Treatments were (C) well-watered treatment receiving 100 % of crop vapotranspiration (ETcrop), and three water-stressed treatments receiving irrigation at 80 (WS1), 60 (WS2) and 40 % (WS3) of ETcrop. Pepper seasonal evapotranspiration varied from a low of 275 mm in the more stressed treatment (WS3) to a high of 478 mm in the well irrigated control, while in WS1 and WS2 seasonal ET accounted for totals of 427 and 360 mm, respectively. Relative to plants grown in WS1 treatment (31.9 t ha-1), marketable fruit yields of C, WS2, and WS3 were reduced by 11.3, 12.2, and 38.2 %, respectively. WS1 and WS2 treatments enhanced fruit quality (dry matter and total soluble solids contents) compared with C. Water use efficiency at dry yield basis (WUEy) of the control was 0.35 kg m-3 while WS1, WS2 and WS3 treatments had WUEy higher by 22, 35 and 39 %, respectively. Radiation use efficiency (RUE) observed in the C and WS1 treatments (avg. 2.20 g MJ-1) was higher by 13 % in comparison to WS2 and WS3 treatments (avg. 1.96 g MJ-1), with no significant differences between CWS1 and WS2 WS3. We concluded that WS1 treatment is recommended for drip irrigated bell pepper under field conditions in order to obtain higher yield and optimized WUE under the Mediterranean dry climate of the Central Bekaa Valley.
24126649|The choice of gelling agent and culture condition affected the growth and development of hybrid Cymbidium Green Planet 'Energy Star' protocorm-like bodies (PLBs). A liquid medium culture system using a rockwool support in a Techno pot under heterotrophic culture (sucrose-containing medium with non-enriched CO2 conditions) resulted in improved plant growth compared with standard-agar, gellan gum and oatmeal agar used as substrate. Since the majority of expiants (96.7 %) died in non-agitated liquid culture, a static liquid culture system is not recommended. Cymbidium PLBs showed superior properties (higher survival rate of expiants, more PLBs, and higher total fresh weight and dry weight of neo-PLBs) when cultured under heterotrophic conditions than when cultured under photoautotrophic conditions.
24126367|Intensive horticulture is a traditional agricultural system in Southern Spain, with crop rotations that are often surface irrigated and heavily fertilized. The Granada Vega has been classified according to European Union regulation as a vulnerable zone to nitrate contamination. Farmers must comply with mandatory agricultural practices aimed to reduce groundwater and surface water pollution with nitrate. The goals of this study were to propose and evaluate alternatives to traditional crop management practices to minimize nitrate leaching. An escarole crop under three different crop management systems (plastic mulch, plastic mulch combined with floating cover and control at open air) was studied in 2005 and 2006. Commercial yield, crop evapotranspiration, biomass production, leaf area, nitrate concentration in leaves and in drainage water were monitored. Protected escaroles (mulched and mulched with floating cover) reached their commercial fresh weight before the control did. Commercial yield of open air crops was highly dependent on weather conditions. The results of this study suggest that mulching in escarole may have a positive effect on reducing nitrate leaching. Also, the amount of N fertilizer applied to the protected treatments following the Nmin method was found to be excessive and can be adjusted in order to reduce nitrate leaching without affecting yield. Covering the crops did not seem to increase nitrate content in leaves. Adding a floating cover to the mulched crop would be advantageous only under unfavorable weather conditions. In that case, it could increase marketable yield and shorten the crop cycle.
24126106|Morphoetric characteristics of fruit bearing branches of 100 walnut trees originating from seeds, were examined. The study was based on tree architecture analysis of fruit bearing wood in four (IIV) morphological types with different branching and fruiting pattern. Among 14 quantitative characteristics of three-year-old bearer together with the corresponding two-year-old and annual shoots, phenotypic correlations were determined to investigate the relationships among the traits. It is considered for all morphotypes that longer annual shoots are thicker and have more nodes and more vegetative buds. In the morphotypes II, III and IV, the number of fruit bearing two-year-old shoots is correlated with the total number of two-year-old shoots. Longer two-year-old shoots are thicker and have more nodes. In morphotypes I and IV, longer three-year-old bearers usually develop more two-year-old shoots which are shorter and thinner, and have a lower number of nodes. It holds for the morphotype I that more female flowers per inflorescence on annual shoot could be expected when they grow on shorter and thinner two-year-old bearing shoots. Phenotypic correlations that have been determined in the first step of our long term investigation are expected to be useful in walnut breeding for improving two or more traits simultaneously. The work is being continued with a detailed evaluation of yield components (quantity and quality) and testing stability of four morphotypes. In the next two to three years, the most influential morphometric traits of fruit bearing branches could be recommended as a new selection criteria in walnut breeding. Bei insgesamt einhundert Walnusssmlingen wurden morphometrische Charakteristiken der fruchttragenden Triebe untersucht. Die Analyse der Baumarchitektur wurde in die Untersuchung miteinbezogen, wobei das fruchttragende Holz in vier morphologische Typen (I-IV) mit unterschiedlichen Verzweigungsmustern und Fruchtbildungen gegliedert wurde. Um die Verbindungen zwischen einzelnen Eigenschaften der dreijhrigen Triebe zusammen mit den auf diesen Trieben wachsenden ein- und zweijhrigen Trieben auswerten zu knnen, wurden in die Untersuchung auch phnotypische Korrelationen einbezogen. Es hat sich erwiesen, dass bei allen Morphotypen lngere einjhrige Triebe dnner waren, und dass sie mehr Nodien und vegetative Knospen entwickelten. In den Morphotypen II, III und IV korrelierte die Frchtezahl auf den zweijhrigen Trieben mit der Gesamtzahl der zweijhrigen Triebe. Lngere zweijhrige Triebe waren dnner und entwickelten hhere Nodienzahl. In den Morphotypen I und IV entwickelten lngere dreijhrige Trger meistens mehrere dnnere und krzere zweijhrige Triebe mit geringerer Nodienzahl. Beim Morphotyp I wrden einjhrige Triebe mehr weibliche Blten entwickeln, wenn sie auf krzeren und dnneren zweijhrigen Trgern wchsen. Phnotypische Korrelationen, die whrend des ersten Schrittes unserer Langzeituntersuchungen ermittelt wurden, knnen die Walnusszchtung positiv beeinflussen. Die Untersuchungen werden mit ausfhrlichen Auswertungen des Ertrages (quantitativ und qualitativ) fortgesetzt. In den nchsten zwei bis drei Jahren werden die einflussreichen morphometrischen Eigenschaften der fruchttragenden Triebe als neues Selektionskriterium bei der Walnusszchtung eingesetzt.
24126322|Seeds of different cultivars of peach rootstocks were assessed to determine the causes of several deleterious traits that affect the quality of the seedlings that result from them. The incidence of triple cotyledons was significantly influenced by variety. It was also found that that the production of multiple stems could be caused by either the production of multiple seeds or by multiple stems originating from cotyledonary axils. The incidence of both traits was heavily influenced by the genotype of the variety. The production of multiple shoots was also affected by temperature with low temperatures favouring their appearance. The incidence of double seeds also varied among cultivars with the average size of seeds from stones that contained double seeds being significantly smaller than for single seeds. The smaller size of double seeds was associated with poorer germination, reduced speed of germination and reduced growth rates. Although there was a strong relationship between seed size and stone (endocarp) size for stones that contained single seeds, no such relationship existed for those stones that contained double seeds. Therefore, selection on the basis of stone size cannot be used to select out stones containing double kernels. The elimination of multiple shoots and double seeds from peach seedlings would reduce the costs associated with rootstock production and could be achieved by removing plants that exhibit these traits from the production system and clonally propagating those trees that are free of such traits. In dieser Untersuchung wurde Saatgut von verschiedenen Pfirsichunterlagen-Genotypen beurteilt, um die Ursachen fr zahlreiche unerwnschte Merkmale, die die Qualitt der aus ihnen hervorgehenden Smlinge beeinflussen, zu ermitteln. Das Ausbilden von Dreifach-Keimblttern wurde signifikant von der Sorte beeinflusst. Es zeigte sich, dass die Bildung zahlreicher Triebe entweder direkt aus multiplen Samen (im Stein) oder ber den Austrieb von Keimblattachselknospen erfolgte. Das Auftreten beider Merkmale wurde sehr stark vom Genotyp beeinflusst. Die multiple Sprobildung wurde auerdem durch die Temperatur und insbesondere durch tiefe Temperaturen gefrdert. Die Hufigkeit von Doppelsamen war bei den Sorten unterschiedlich, wobei die durchschnittliche Gre von Steinen mit zwei Samen signifikant geringer war als bei jenen mit einem Samen. Die geringere Gre der Doppelsamen war gekoppelt mit geringerer Keimrate, geringerer Keimgeschwindigkeit und geringerer Wachstumsrate. Auerdem gab es bei Steinen mit nur einem Samen einen engen Zusammenhang zwischen Samengre und Stein- (Endokarp-)gre. Dieser Zusammenhang bestand bei Steinen mit zwei Samen nicht. Aus diesem Grund ist eine Selektion auf Basis der Steingre kein Kriterium fr Doppelsamen. Das Ausschalten von multiplen Sprossen und Doppelsamen wrde die Kosten fr die Produktion von Pfirsichunterlagen senken. Dies knnte durch Aussondern von Pflanzen mit unerwnschten Merkmalen aus dem Vermehrungszyklus in Kombination mit dem Klonen von merkmalsfreien Pflanzen geschehen.
24126191|AVG (aminoethoxyvinylglycine) was applied pre-harvest (125 ppm) a.i. at a single application 21, 14 or 7 days prior to the first commercial harvest and post-harvest to the pear cultivars 'Abb Ftel' and 'Bartlett' to evaluate changes in fruit maturation. Fruit ripening was also monitored after 7 or 14 days of cold storage at 0 C. The ripening indices most affected by the treatments were ethylene production and flesh firmness. The ripening of 'Abb Fetel' fruit treated in pre-harvest was delayed by 5 to 15 days depending on harvest date. After 7 and 14 days of cold storage, the AVG treated fruits partially retained their unripe characteristics as compared with untreated fruits. Flesh softening was also partially retarded with post-harvest AVG dip treatment of 'Bartlett' fruit. Um den Einfluss des Mittels auf die Fruchtreifung zu ermitteln, wurden die Birnensorten 'Abb Ftel' und 'Bartlett' entweder 21, 14 bzw. 7 Tage vor dem im Erwerbsobstbau blichen Erntetermin oder aber danach mit AVG (Aminoethoxyvinylglycerin, 125 ppm) a.i.) behandelt. Die Fruchtreifung wurde nach 7- bzw. 14-tgiger Lagerung bei 0 C berprft. Den grten Einfluss hatte die Behandlung auf die Reifindices Ethylenproduktion und Fruchtfleischfestigkeit. Die Reifung der vor der Ernte behandelten 'Abb Fetel'-Frchte verzgerte sich in Abhngigkeit vom Erntetermin um 515 Tage. Whrend der 7- bzw. 14-tgigen Khllagerung behielten die AVG behandelten Frchte teilweise ihren unreifen Zustand bei. Auch das Weichwerden des Fruchtfleisches war bei 'Bartlett'-Frchten, die nach der Ernte in AVG getaucht wurden, teilweise verzgert.
24126794|To produce new ornamental plants by combining Saintpaulia ionantha and Streptocarpus, two closely related genera of the family Gesneriaceae, protoplast fusions were accomplished. Various tissues were evaluated as potential starting materials for protoplast isolation from Streptocarpus saxorum  S. stomandrus and S. caulescens. Sufficient protoplast yields between 2 and 3.6  105 g-1 fresh mass with high viabilities from 6896 % were obtained from the leaves of in vitro shoot cultures, which were grown in liquid medium in the dark. After 14 days of culture, cell divisions reached frequencies between 2.1 and 5.5 %, depending on the species, and vigorously growing calluses were obtained. However, only root formation was induced on these calluses; no shoot induction was achieved. For the protoplast fusion, polyethylene glycol was applied and an appropriate fusion protocol was developed. The fusion rate, which was determined by cell nucleus staining with ethidium bromide, reached up to 35 % binuclear protoplasts. Cell divisions were observed in four fusion experiments between two Streptocarpus species and two Saintpaulia ionantha varieties, and in two of these experiments, callus formation was also observed. To identify possible hybrid calluses, calluses were preselected by flow cytometry and analysed with RAPD markers. In 27 out of 30 tetraploid calluses the DNA bands from the Streptocarpus parent were dominant or were the only ones detected, in one the bands from the Saintpaulia parent, and only two calluses with bands of both parents were observed. This evidence supports the notion that successful fusions between Saintpaulia and Streptocarpus are possible, but no plants could be regenerated from the hybrid calluses.
24126724|Centrifugal pruning (CentP) was compared to conventional pruning (ConvP) over a five-year period beginning in 2004 with five-year-old peach trees, of the medium-maturing cultivar 'Caprice', under the conditions prevalent in the Middle Rhone Valley in France. CentP is a new training system for peach trees designed to improve light distribution in the canopy by creating a "light well" around the scaffold through early manual pruning. CentP tended to increase total soluble solids compared to ConvP, but the average fruit weight tended to decrease under CentP. Nevertheless, because of the increase in fruit yield, notably as a result of the greater number of flowers per shoot length, the relative profitability of fruit production was higher under CentP than under ConvP. Labour demand increased under CentP compared to ConvP, in the same proportion as monetary returns, so that the supplemental costs due to this innovative pruning method tended to be economically compensated for by increased fruit production. Water sprouts were removed in spring under CentP, instead of in summer under ConvP. Because summer is considered to be the busiest time of the year for fruit producers, CentP appears to be more advantageous in terms of work time management in the peach orchard than ConvP. Brown rot incidence tended to decrease at fruit maturity and until post-harvest storage under CentP compared to ConvP. This suggests that appropriate pruning practices possibly decrease peach disease sensitivity, which could lead to the reduced use of pesticide sprays to control brown rot in the orchard.
24126702|The effects of fruit order, polyethylene mulch colour and early forcing on the biochemical compounds (BCs) vitamin C (L-ascorbic acid), percentage soluble solids (Brix), total acids, total anthocyanins, total phenolics and ellagic acid of strawberry (Fragaria  ananassa cv. 'Korona') were examined. The study was conducted in three consecutive years on fruit taken from a split-plot design involving a tunnel. There were large differences in fruit season and yield between the first and second fruiting years, reflected in the differences between levels of examined BCs of fruit orders, which ranged differently. The differences observed in Brix and total acids were not sufficient to have a major effect on fruit taste. Using white polyethylene mulch (WM) increased the Brix-value in one of the three years of the study and vitamin C in all years compared to brown polyethylene mulch (BM). Total acids were completely unaffected by mulch-colour during the whole course of the study. The contents of total phenolics, total anthocyanins and ellagic acid were examined only for the last year, and no significant effect of mulch colour for total anthocyanins was observed, while ellagic acid and total phenolics increased on WM compared to BM. Forcing made the plants fruit four or seven days earlier in the first and second year, respectively, but had no influence on the examined BCs. However, forcing strongly reduced fruit size and increased the percentage of malformed fruits in one year.
24126282|This study targeted to assess the yield components and physicochemical traits of eight common bean landraces versus four commercial cultivars widely grown in Greece. The genotypes were cultivated for two growing seasons under organic growing conditions and a preponderance [better agronomic characteristics; number of pods per plant, seed weight, biomass and enhanced physicochemical properties; protein and fat content (%)] of landraces over commercial cultivars was found. It was also observed that organic environment of experimentation allowed for better differentiation of the examined genetic material but displayed a negative impact on the commercial cultivars. These results were obtained by determining the genetic parameters (GCV, H) and orthogonal contrasts between different (landraces versus commercial cultivars) groups according both to growth type and origin. High detectable genetic variation in agronomic performance and physicochemical traits among the examined dry bean cultivars was found. Three high yield landraces of enhanced physicochemical properties ( % protein and fat content) were identified as promising material for eventual production of ecotypes endowed with high adaptation to organic cropping system.
24126796|Alternative methods for propagation of apple rootstocks are needed where the climate is not optimal for stool bed multiplication and where in vitro culture is not an option. This study examined production of cuttings from roots and rooting of these cuttings to explore whether efficient propagation of apple rootstock M9 'Lancep' is possible by this method. Hypotheses for the study were: i) Root quality (length and thickness) and soil conditions affect the production of cuttings from root tissues; and ii) the rooting success of cuttings is promoted by an external supply of hormones. Cuttings were taken from roots of six qualities in three growing media and at two root depths (3.5 and 7.0 cm) and the production of cuttings and the rooting process were monitored. Medium to long roots of large diameter (510 mm) produced the highest number of cuttings. A thin soil cover (3.5 cm) on top of the root mass was better than a thick layer (7.0 cm) for high production efficiency and cutting quality. The etiolated base of such cuttings did not need to be treated with plant growth regulators in order to obtain high rooting efficiency, probably because of the juvenile state of cuttings produced from these roots. Compact cuttings of high quality rooted well and gave plantlets of good quality. These results contribute to the establishment of an efficient propagation procedure for apple rootstock M9 'Lancep'.
24126223|In this study the hypothesis that a variation in air humidity will reduce the negative effect of continuous lighting on keeping quality of cut roses without enhancing the development of powdery mildew, was evaluated. Vase life and water loss from detached leaves were studied in two cut rose cultivars grown at daily periods of 0, 6, 12 and 24 h at 62 % combined with 82 % relative air humidity (RH) under continuous lighting. In addition, the effect of constant low (62 % RH) and constant high (82 % RH) was studied at 18 h day-1 lighting period. In continuous light, six hours with low RH considerably increased the vase life as compared with constant high RH in both cultivars. Extending the period with low RH from 12 to 24 h decreased the vase life particularly in cv. 'Orange Unique'. Reducing the lighting period from 24 to 18 h day-1 significantly increased the vase life both at low and high RH. A close relationship was found between the vase life and control of leaf water loss from detached leaves in the different treatments. Reducing the lighting period increased the vase life and decreased the water loss from the leaves both at constant low and constant high air humidity. The development of powdery mildew was significantly reduced when the lighting period was increased from 18 to 24 h day-1. The results are discussed in relation to produce cut roses with long vase life at a greenhouse climate that causes a minimum of powdery mildew development.
24126358|The effect of salinity on some agro-physiological properties, such as dry matter, nutrient contents, chlorophyll contents, and ionic balance of corn plants, were investigated. Plants were treated with six salt sources (NaCl, Na2SO4, CaCl2, CaSO4, MgCl2, MgSO4) and four concentrations (0, 40, 80, and 120 mM doses) for 30 days in a growth media. Salt type and doses affected soil pH and electrical conductivity. Soil salinity affected the parameters considered and changed the nutrient balance of plants. High salt concentration caused substantial reduction in plant growth. Different salt concentrations negatively affected plant dry weight. The highest decrease rates of plant dry weight was obtained for NaCl application followed by Na2SO4, CaCl2, MgCl2, CaSO4 and MgSO4. Total chlorophyll and nitrate contents of plants decreased with increasing salt doses, and the lowest value was obtained for NaCl application. Proline contents of plant were increased with increasing salt doses, and the highest value was obtained for 120 mM NaCl application. The effects of salt concentrations on N, K and P content of plants were significant. The highest decrease rate was determined with NaCl application, but the lowest with MgSO4. Iron, Mn and Cu content of plants showed similar variation, as the highest for NaCl, and Na2SO4, and the lowest for CaCl2 and CaSO4. The highest decrease in Zn content occurred with MgSO4 application, but the lowest with NaCl. Es wurde die Wirkung des Salzgehalts auf einige pflanzenphysiologische Eigenschaften wie Trockensubstanz, Nhrstoff- und Chlorophyllgehalt sowie Ionenbalance von Maispflanzen untersucht. Die Pflanzen wurden 30 Tage lang in Substraten kultiviert, die die Salze NaCl, Na2SO4, CaCl2, CaSO4, MgCl2, MgSO4 in vier Konzentrationen (0, 40, 80 und 120 mM) enthielten. Der Salztyp und die Dosis beeinflusste den Substrat-pH und die elektrische Leitfhigkeit. Der Salzgehalt des Substrats beeinflusste die untersuchten Parameter und vernderte die Nhrstoffbalance der Pflanzen. Hohe Salzkonzentrationen fhrten zu einer deutlichen Reduktion des Pflanzenwachstums. Verschiedene Salzkonzentrationen beeinflussten das Trockengewicht negativ. Die strkste Minderung des Trockengewichts verursachte die NaCl-Gabe gefolgt von Na2SO4, CaCl2, MgCl2, CaSO4 und MgSO4. Der Chlorophyll- und Nitrat- Gesamtgehalt der Pflanzen fiel mit steigender Salzdosis, wobei die NaCl-Gabe den geringsten Wert verursachte. Der Prolin-Gehalt der Pflanzen stieg mit steigender Salzdosis, die Gabe von 120 mM NaCl fhrte zum hchsten Wert. Der Einfluss der Salzkonzentrationen auf die N-, K- und P-Gehalte war statistisch signifikant. Die hchste Reduktion wurde von NaCl-Gaben und der absolut geringste Wert durch MgSO4 verursacht. Eisen-, Mn- und Cu-Gehalte zeigten hnliche Variationen, die strksten bei NaCl und Na2SO4 und die geringsten bei CaCl2 und CaSO4. Der hchste Rckgang beim Zn-Gehalt trat bei der MgSO4-Gabe und der geringste bei NaCl auf.
24126274|Monilinia vaccinii-corymbosi (Monilinia blight, mummy berry disease) is one of the most important plant pathogenic fungi on blueberries in America and was not detected in Europe until now. In the years 2002 and 2003, in Styria (Austria), a fungus was isolated from blueberries (Vaccinium corymbosum 'Berkeley') and identified morphologically as Monilinia vaccinii-corymbosi through appearance on shoots and fruits, the asco- and conidiospores and the overwintering structures. As known so far, this is the first verified occurrence of M. vaccinii-corymbosi in Europe. Monilinia vaccinii-corymbosi (Monilinia-Spitzendrre, mummy berry-Krankheit) zhlt zu den wichtigsten Schadpilzen im amerikanischen Heidelbeeranbau und wurde in Europa bisher noch nicht nachgewiesen. In den Jahren 2002 und 2003 konnte in der Steiermark (sterreich) von Kulturheidelbeeren (Vaccinium corymbosum 'Berkeley') ein Pilz isoliert und morphologisch aufgrund des Schadbildes an Trieben und Frchten, den Asko- und Konidiosporen sowie den berwinterungsorganen als Monilinia vaccinii-corymbosi identifiziert werden. Nach bisherigem Wissensstand ist dies das erste nachweisliche Auftreten von M. vaccinii-corymbosi in Europa.
24126813|The use of saline water is an option for the irrigation of salt tolerant ornamentals as competition for high quality water increases. However, despite the importance of ornamental shrubs in Mediterranean areas, salt tolerance of such species has received little attention. Our investigations focused on two species of Bwcus L. used in urban green design: B. sempervirens L. and B. microphylla Sieb. & Zucc. 'Faulkner'. Plants were subjected to treatments with two NaCl solutions (125 mM and 250 mM) and distilled water (control), applied by immersion and sprinkler. Injury symptoms by means of visual check were regularly evaluated each two weeks, and SPAD values, and chloride and sodium concentrations were measured in leaves at the end of the experiment. Buxus resulted an interesting genus as no severe damages were detected in all salt-treated plants. With this background, B. microphylla 'Faulkner' resulted less affected by salt stress. B. sempervirens showed more relevant foliar damages (bronzing, yellowing and scorching) and higher chloride and sodium leaf concentration when treated by immersion.
24126154|Prohexadione-Ca is a new, multi-functional plant bioregulator for use in pome fruits. In addition to regulating vegetative growth and improving fruit set, the compound reduces the incidence of shoot fire blight and other diseases. Complete absorption of the active ingredient is of great importance for the efficient use of products containing prohexadione-Ca. This can be advanced by using calcium-binding and acidifying adjuvants and by taking care that a long-lasting liquid film remains on treated shoots. Intensity of shoot growth should be under control from its beginning with dosages, which have to be adjusted according to expected shoot vigour. Prohexadion-Ca ist ein neuer, multifunktioneller Bioregulator fr Kernobst. Mit dem Wirkstoff lsst sich das Triebwachstum regulieren und der Fruchtansatz verbessern. Zugleich wird eine Wirkung gegen Triebinfektionen durch Feuerbrand und gegen andere Pathogene erzielt. Fr einen effizienten Einsatz von Prohexadion-Ca-haltigen Produkten ist eine mglichst vollstndige Wirkstoffaufnahme von groer Bedeutung. Dies kann durch die Verwendung von Calcium-bindenden und surewirksamen Adjuvantien sowie durch einen lang anhaltenden flssigen Belag auf den behandelten Trieben gefrdert werden. Die Intensitt des Triebwachstums sollte von Beginn an kontrolliert werden. Die dafr bentigten Aufwandmengen sind von der erwarteten Triebkraft abhngig.
24126788|In vitro propagation of rare Indian medicinal herb 'Safed Musli' (Chlorophytum borivilianum) was achieved using encapsulated shoot buds. Four millimetre long shoot buds encapsulated in 3.0 % sodium alginate matrix polymerised by 100 mM solution of CaCl2.2H20 yielded best results. Storage conditions, gel matrix media and period in storage influenced the in vitro regrowth potential of shoot buds when transferred on standard multiplication (SM) medium containing MS salts and 5.0 mg 1-1 BAP. Encapsulated shoot buds stored on wet agar-gel and kept under culture room conditions of light and temperature (45 mol m-2 s-1 and 282 C, respectively) showed more than 80 % sprouting within 3 weeks. Dark stored (4 C) encapsulated shoot buds on agar-gelled wet medium showed more than 90 % sprouting after 7 d of storage. The per cent response in terms of regrowth potential declined to 60 % when buds were stored for more than 30 d attaining a low of 20 % in another 30 days. Supplementing alginate matrix with sucrose and MS salts (ALMSS) produced better results as compared to that with MS salts alone (ALMS) or without any of them (ALW). All the sprouted shoot buds, irrespective of their storage conditions, produced normal shoots on SM and multiplied at a rate of 2.5-fold per subculture of 21 d each. More than 70 % microshoots could be rooted on the medium containing 3/4 MS salts and 2.0 mg 1-1 IBA. Rooted plantlets were hardened successfully and grown under greenhouse conditions where they produced normal tuberous roots. This method of micropropagation opens possibilities for storage of shoot buds during off-season of production and facilitate transport of germplasm with ease. Durch die Verwendung von eingekapselten Triebknospen gelang es, die seltene indische Medizinalpflanze 'Safed Musli' (Chlorophytum borivilianum) in vitro zu vermehren. Vier Millimeter lange in durch eine 100 mM CaCl2.2H20-Lsung polymerisierte 3.0 % Natriumalginatmatrix eingekapselte Triebknospen erzielten die besten Resultate. Die Lagerbedingungen, das Gelmatrixmedium und die Lagerdauer beeinflussten das Austriebspotential der Triebknospen in vitro, wenn diese auf Standardvermehrungsmedium (SM) mit MS-Salzen und 5.0 mg 1-1 BAP gesetzt wurden. Eingekapselte Triebknospen, die in feuchtem Agargel unter Kulturraumbedingungen hinsichtlich Licht und Temperatur (45 mol m-2 s-1 bzw. 282 C) gelagert wurden, zeigten in den ersten drei Wochen zu ber 80 % Sprossbildung. Eine 7-tgige Lagerung bei 4 C und Dunkelheit fhrte bei ber 90 % in feuchtem Agargelmedium eingekapselten Triebknospen zur Sprossbildung. Bei einer Knospenlagerdauer ber 30 Tage verringerte sich das Austriebspotential auf unter 60 % und erreichte nach weiteren 30 Tagen einen Tiefstand von 20 %. Der Zusatz einer Alginatmatrix in Kombination mit Saccharose und MS-Salzen (ALMSS) fhrte zu besseren Ergebnissen als die Zugabe einer Alginatmatrix nur mit MS-Salzen (ALMS) oder reiner Alginatmatrix (ALW). Alle sprobildenden Triebknospen bildeten unabhngig von den Lagerbedingungen auf SM normale Sprosse aus, die sich in Subkulturen innerhalb von 21 Tagen um das 2,5-fache vermehrten. Die Bewurzelungsrate betrug auf Medium mit 3/4 MS-Salzen und 2.0 mg 1-1 IBA mehr als 70 %. Bewurzelte Pflnzchen konnten erfolgreiche abgehrtet werden und bildeten unter Gewchshausbedingungen die gewohnten knollenartigen Wurzeln aus. Die hier beschriebene Methode der Mikrovermehrung erffnet Mglichkeiten, Triebknospen auerhalb der Produktionsphase zu lagern und erleichtert auerdem den Transport von Erbplasma (Genmaterial).
24126278|The aim of this work was to determine the effect of both nursery container volume and the use of paclobutrazol retardant associated to holding plugs on the growth of Impatiens wallerana, an important bedding plant, at the commercial sales stage. Our results showed an increase in dry weight and main root at the sales stage while plug cell volume increased from 512 to 50 plug cell tray (2.5 to 55.7 cm3 cell-1) during nursery. When the growth retardant paclobutrazol was used, a significant decrease in total dry weight has been found. Larger transplant sizes could be achieved by holding plugs two weeks from the 'optimum transplant'. The advantage of small transplants is related to lower establishment costs but, the presence of short-and long-term stresses such as the 'root restriction' imposed by small plug cell tray and/or growth regulators which inhibit plant growth overriding these economic aspects affects their suitability.
24126149|A new method to test plants for frost hardiness was developed by placing the top of container plants downwards in a computer-controlled freezer and keeping the roots upwards above an insulated cover  the upside down freezing test. Four cultivars of Ilex spp. were freeze tested 3 times during the autumn/winter 1999 at -10, -16, and -22 C and compared with control plants kept at 4 C. Electrolyte leakage from leaves of the freeze tested plants was measured and Index of Injury (It) was calculated. Afterwards the plants were placed in a greenhouse to observe plant performance, and the results were related to It. The upside down freezing test was useful as the plant top was frozen without killing the roots. There were significant effects (p<0.05) of temperature, time, and cultivar and some of their second order interactions using It as variable. Plant performance under greenhouse conditions showed relatively good correlation with It. Plants registered as dead had high It and plants registered as not damaged had relatively low It. It can be concluded that it is possible to use the upside down freezing test and the derived Index of Injury to estimate plant performance. Using these methods the testing time for selection of new frost hardy ornamental or landscape plants can be reduced. Es wurde eine neue Methode zur Frosthrte-Bestimmung bei Pflanzen, der upside down freezing test, entwickelt, bei dem die Pflanzen in einer computerkontrollierten Gefriertruhe mit der Pflanzenkrone nach unten und den isolierten Wurzeln nach oben platziert werden. Im Herbst/Winter 1999 wurden vier Ilex spp. Sorten dem Gefriertest mit drei Wiederholungen und drei Temperaturstufen (-10, -16 und -22 C) unterzogen und mit 4 C-Kontrollpflanzen verglichen. Die Elektrolytverluste der gefrorenen Bltter wurden gemessen und daraus der Schadensindex (It) ermittelt. Die Pflanzen wurden im Anschluss ins Gewchshaus gebracht, um ihre Leistungsfhigkeit zu beobachten und die gewonnenen Ergebnisse mit dem It zu korrelieren. Vorteil des upside down freezing test ist, dass die Pflanzenkrone eingefroren wird, ohne gleichzeitig die Wurzeln abzutten. Durch die Verwendung von It als Variable war es mglich, Signifikanzen (p<0.05) hinsichtlich Temperatur, Zeitpunkt der Behandlung und Sorte sowie einiger Wechselwirkungen nachzuweisen. Zwischen der Leistungsfhigkeit der Pflanzen unter Gewchshausbedingungen und dem It bestand eine enge Korrelation. Pflanzen, die als abgestorben bonitiert wurden, hatten einen hohen und Pflanzen, die als ungeschdigt bonitiert wurden, einen relativ niedrigen It. Abschlieend kann festgestellt werden, dass der upside down freezing test in Kombination mit dem Schadensindex eine gute Mglichkeit darstellt, die Leistungsfhigkeit von Pflanzen zu schtzen. Die Anwendung dieser Methode kann die Dauer der Frosthrteselektion neuer Zier- und Baumschulpflanzen verkrzen.
24126486|Black spot resistance in the field was visually evaluated for a total of 581 accessions at two locations in central and northern Germany. At Sangerhausen rose garden 289 of 486 accessions have shown a high level of disease resistance. After subsequent resistance tests in the detached leaf assay 33 of these accessions did not show any signs of black spot infections. At Ahrensburg 41 of the 130 wild rose accessions from 65 species were not infected in the field. Leaves of the accessions without apparent black spot infections were sampled and inoculated under laboratory conditions with different single spore isolates and field collected samples of the pathogen. A total of 11 accessions were found to be highly resistant to all black spot isolates. Powdery mildew resistance of 39 accessions at Ahrensburg was identified after field evaluation and artificial inoculation with different samples of Podosphaera pannosa from naturally infected leaves. Downy mildew resistance was estimated in detached leaf assays after inoculation of a subset of 85 accessions from Ahrensburg with single spore isolates and field collected samples of Peronospora sparsa among which 13 wild rose accessions were found to be resistant. Multiple resistances to two of the pathogens were found in 13 of the investigated accessions of which R. majalis 93-09-01 is highly resistant to all three pathogens, except for isolate Diplocarpon rosae 'AHE10'. These accessions, primarily those carrying multiple resistances, are a valuable genetic resource for the introduction of resistance genes to black spot, downy mildew and powdery mildew into cultivated garden roses.
24126377|Selected abiotic (electric conductivity, pH, oxygen content, chemical oxygen demand, dissolved organic carbon) and biotic (general bacterial and fungal microflora, fluorescent pseudomonads, filamentous actinomycetes, Fusarium oxysporum, Pythium aphanidermatum, biochemical oxygen demand, enzyme activities) factors have been monitored in two distinct commercial hydroponic systems with tomato and ornamental plants with integrated slow filters in supernatant, filter skin and effluent in two successive years. In six small scale experimental systems with two slow filters each (nutrient film technique, crop: tomato) the same parameters were followed to establish possible correlations with filter efficacy against Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. cyclaminis. In half of the systems, the filter skin was enriched with fungal cell wall preparation. Nutrient solutions of the systems showed biggest differences concerning the chemical oxygen demand (COD) (commercial tomato system >> experimental system > commercial ornamental system) and dissolved organic carbon content (DOC). Both factors were positively correlated in supernatant and effluent (e.g. supernatant: r2=0.813; p<0.001). A significant reduction of COD and DOC due to filtration was visible only in the commercial tomato system. The biological oxygen demand of the nutrient solutions was always very low (<2 mg O2l-1). Absolute oxygen content was always reduced by filtration processes. Electric conductivity and pH of nutrient solution remained unaffected by filtration processes. No significant differences between the growing systems concerning biotic factors have been observed in supernatant and filter skin. Pythium aphanidermatum and Fusarium oxysporum were regularly found in the supernatants and colonized the observed filter skins. All effluents of the systems were free of P. aphanidermatum. Fusarium oxysporum was detected continuously in the effluents of the experimental system while effluents of commercial systems contained only F. oxysporum at one incident. Values for chitinase, cellulase, glucanase and protease enzyme activities of the filter skin were not influenced neither by growing systems nor time. Only xylanase activity showed seasonal influences and activities increased over time (mU = 0.088 (mU week-1) * t (week); r2=0.546; p<0.001). Filter efficacies against Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. cyclaminis in the experimental systems varied between 98.3 %1.0 (treated) and 97.9 %1.8 (untreated) but no significant differences could be stated.
24126659|The influence of high CO2 concentrations and diurnal variation in air temperature on the development of powdery mildew (Podosphaera pannosa) was studied in different cut rose cultivars grown under 20 h day-1 supplementary lighting. An increase in CO2 concentration from 380 to 1000, or 2000 pmol mol-1, did not affect development of the disease in cvs. 'Escimo' and 'Red Champ'. Compared to constant temperature, a temperature drop from 22 C to 16 C over the course of 8 h significantly enhanced the attack of powdery mildew in both cultivars, while the same drop in temperature over the course of 4 h had no effect. In another experiment, a temperature increase from 20 C to 26 C reduced the attack of powdery mildew in the four cultivars studied ('Escimo', 'Red Champ', 'Jade' and 'Cezanne') when applied over 4 h and even more so when applied over 8 h. Number of days until flowering was unaffected by CO2 concentration, but was increased by a drop in temperature and decreased by a rise. Fresh weight per shoot was increased by CO2 enrichment, a drop in temperature and by a 4 h period of increased temperature. The results are discussed in relation to an optimal greenhouse climate with respect to rose production and powdery mildew control.
24126617|One of the greatest challenges in screenhouse horticulture is the control of environmental conditions required to reduce the high vapour pressure deficits (VPD) recorded during most of the day in the summertime. This paper describes the results of the research conducted on evaluating the effect of low-pressure misting on the microclimate of a screenhouse on a green bean crop (Phaseolus vulgaris L. 'Festival') over two spring-summer production cycles in south-east Spain, together with a quantification of its water use efficiency (WUE). We compared a screenhouse equipped with a low-pressure misting system (SM), with a screenhouse without a misting system (S) and with conventional open-field crops (OF). The main effect of misting was a fall in the temperature of the plant canopy and of the maximum air temperature and VPD recorded at times of highest radiation and evaporative demand, and an increase in total and commercial productivity compared to the other systems. The misting reduced the light transmission with differences of 132.9 MJ m-2 in 2008 and 155.8 MJ m-2 in 2009 with respect to the S system. WUE was highest for the S system since SM required additional water for misting (29.3 % in 2008 and 45.5 % in 2009).
24126115|A solid-phase micro-extraction (SPME) procedure for analysis of the flavour components of two varieties of Citrus madurensis Lour. (Syn. Citrus microcarpa Bunge), the Philippine calamansi and the Taiwan calamondin, is presented. Fifty-eight components were identified, and grouped into eight classes: 8 monoterpene hydrocarbons, 3 oxygenated monoterpenes, 18 sesquiterpenes, 2 aliphatic hydrocarbons, 10 esters, 11 aldehydes, 3 alcohols and 3 ketones. On the whole, Philippine calamansi juice has statistically higher percentage of ketones, monoterpene hydrocarbons, and sesquiterpenes than calamondin from Taiwan. Principal component analysis (PCA) was used as a descriptive tool to identify aroma species that contributed strongly to overall flavour constituent's variation. Five principal components were extracted from the data matrix represent a cumulative 84.1 % of the total variation of aroma concentration. Among the five PCA axes, the distribution of the Philippine calamansi samples was separated nicely from the distribution of the Taiwan calamondin samples along the third and fourth axes graphically. The third axis is the axis of -pinene and -cubebene. While nonyl alcohol and linalyl alcohol correlate greatly to the fourth axis. The key components occurring in the Taiwan calamondin and Philippine calamansi were compared and discussed. Es wird eine Festphasen-Mikroextraktion-Methode (SPME) zur Analyse der Geschmackskomponenten von zwei Varietten von Citrus madurensis Lour. (Syn. Citrus microcarpa Bunge), der philippinischen Calamansi und der taiwanesischen Calamondin vorgestellt. 58 Komponenten wurden identifiziert und in acht Gruppen eingeteilt: 8 Monoterpenkarbone und 3 oxygenierte Monoterpene, 18 Sesquiterpene, 2 aliphatische Hydrokarbone, 10 Ester, 11 Aldehyde, 3 Alkohole und 3 Ketone. Im groen und ganzen hatte Calamansi-Saft statistisch abgesichert hhere Prozentanteile an Ketonen, Monoterpenkarbonen und Sesquiterpenen als der Calamondin-Saft. Die Hauptkomponenten-Analyse (PCA) wurde als beschreibendes Werkzeug zur Identifizierung der Aromakomponenten, die hauptschlich zur Variation der Gesamtgeschmackbestandteile beitrugen, verwendet. Fnf Hauptkomponenten wurden aus dem Datenmaterial zusammengestellt, die 84.1 % der Gesamtvariation der Aromen reprsentieren. Innerhalb der fnf PCA-Achsen trennten sich die Calamansi-Proben entlang der dritten und vierten Achse deutlich von den Calamondin-Proben. Die dritte Achse ist die Achse der -Pinene und -Kubebene. Die vierte Achse korreliert stark mit Nonyl- und Linalylalkohol. Die Schlsselkomponenten, die in der philippinischen Calamansi und der taiwanesischen Calamondin auftreten, wurden verglichen und diskutiert.
24126421|The induction of polyploidy in Dendrobium scabrilingue L. was conducted by using colchicine treatment while being cultured on semi-solid Vacin and Went (1949). Protocorm like bodies (PLBs) of diploid D. scabrilingue L. were treated with 0.000, 0.025, 0.050, 0.075 and 0.100 % (wt/vol) of colchicine for 3, 7, 14 and 21 d, respectively. The most effective treatment was 0.075 % (wt/vol) colchicine for 14 d which resulted in about 36.8 % surviving PLBs and with 43.1 % of tetraploid orchids, as measured by flow cytometry. Tetraploid plantlets showed broadened, 23 times thicker, less pointy, dark green leaves and increased stem and root diameter as compared to diploid plants. The results show that the ongoing selection process will provide improved and easier to cultivate D. scabrilingue L. of higher commercial value for Thai orchid growers.
24126854|Two medicinal plant species (Achillea collina Becker and Hyssopus officinalis L.) normally occurring and frequendy cultivated in our Central European region, were grown in controlled environment simulating "cold" and "hot" weather conditions. A "cold" environment (slowly increasing temperatures from 12.5/7.5 C to 27.0/14.0 C and 5700 lux illumination) prolonged the appearance of the first inflorescences by 9 weeks in both species. In yarrow, "cold" treatment resulted in elevated plant height (approximately by 50 %) and by up to 35 % larger leaves. In addition, plants produced more biomass (0.117 kg plant-1) compared to the "hot" treatment. The accumulation of essential oil, the proazulene ratio and the total phenol content of the herb have only been moderately effected by the different climatic conditions. In case of hyssop, however, the generative features like number and length of inflorescences were significantly increased by 180 and 108 %, respectively, in the "hot" chamber. Biomass and accumulation of essential oil were also favoured by "hot" treatment. The content of 1.22 ml 100 g oil-1 exceeded the mean value of plants grown in the "cold" chambers by almost 150%. The composition of the oil showed characteristic quantitative changes due to weather conditions. It is concluded that, while in cultivation of yarrow the effect of the year may considerably affect yield, in stands of hyssop it is more important for the quality.
24127679|Rhizopus rot caused by Rhizopus stolonifer, is considered as a major destructive postharvest disease of stone fruits such as peach that severely decreases the shelf life of stored fruits. The aim of this research was to determine and monitor the antifungal activity of essential oils from three medicinal plants, to control Rhizopus stolonifer on peach fruits and enhance fruit shelf life and storage ability. Essential oils extracted from sage (Salvia officinalis), savory (Satureja hortensis) and zataria or Shiraz thyme (Zataria multiflora). These essential oils were added to Petri dishes containing PDA (potato dextrose agar) by two methods, direct contact and fumigation. Results obviously showed that fumigation with zataria and savory essential oils completely inhibited R. stolonifer growth by volatiles with 24 and 48 l concentrations. In the case of direct contact, zataria at 360 l l-1 had maximum inhibition (96 %) upon mycelial growth of R. stolonifer. The main components of zataria oil were carvacrol (38.50 %), thymol (25.50 %) and p-cymene (13.35 %), and savory oil were carvacrol (38.00 %), p-cymene (32.20 %) and -terpinene (21.65 %).
24126845|Na+ content in the plantlets was increased upon exogenous NaCl in the culture medium whereas the potassium ion (K+) decreased. Free proline content in salt stressed cactus plantlets was also enriched and peaked when plantlets were subjected to 200 mM NaCl. Na+ in salt stressed plantlets was negatively correlated to chlorophyll a content. Photosynthetic pigments, i.e., chlorophyll a, chlorophyll b, total chlorophyll and total carotenoids, declined significantly in plantlets exposed to 100 mM NaCl, resulting in reduced net photosynthetic rate and inhibition of overall growth characters. Number of cladode budding, root length, number of roots, and fresh and dry weight of cactus plantlets was significantly declined when cactus plantlets expose to 50 mM NaCl. In addition, the number of roots of in vitro cactus plantlets was a good indicator for salt sensitivity, which were absent in plantlets subjected to 200 mM NaCl for 28 days.
24134266|High levels of regeneration and optimized transient expression factors are critical for increasing transformation rates in plant species. An efficient regeneration protocol was developed and transient expression experiments were carried out to provide information for the improvement of Agrobacterium tumefaciens mediated transformation system in Japanese plum (Prunus salicina Lindl.). Five different varieties of Japanese plum ('Shiro', 'Early Golden', 'Gladstone', 'Red Heart' and 'Bruce'), four different basal salt mixtures (QL, WPM, B5 and MS), light regimes and TDZ pretreatments were evaluated to optimize adventitious shoot regeneration. Regeneration ability was highly variety dependent. Basal salt composition significantly affected the regeneration frequency. Best regeneration frequencies were obtained from 'Shiro' (56.4 %) on QL salts and 'Early Golden' (42.8 %) on B5 medium. Subsequently transient expression experiments were carried out using three Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains; LBA4404, EHA105 and GV3101, each containing binary vector pCAMBIA2301. There were significant differences observed among Agrobacterium strains tested. Agrobacterium strains LBA4404 and EHA105 were much more effective than GV3101 strain and the presence of acetosyringone in the co-cultivation medium resulted in increased GUS expression
24126913|Macropore flow has received increased attention in the recent years due to its importance on solute flow through the vadose zone and contamination of groundwater. The effects of man-made macropores resulting from cultivation of turfgrass sites on the mobility of nitrates and tracer chloride were studied. Treatments included two soil profiles (a sandy profile, simulating a US Golf Association style putting green and a sandy clay soil) and three cultivation practices (shallow hollow tines, 80 mm deep and 19 mm internal diameter (I.D.); deep drill, 220 mm deep and 19 mm I.D.; and high pressure water injection). Free draining lysimeters sodded with Agrostis stolonifera ssp. palustris Huds. var. 'Providence' were used in greenhouse to perform three studies. In the first study, turfgrass was fertilized with a solution fertilizer at a rate of 24 kg N ha-1 and a daily irrigation of 6.8 mm in excess of the predetermined field capacity. In the second greenhouse study the irrigation rate was increased to 13.7 to 27.4 mm d-1 simulating an overwatering regime. In the third study turfgrass was fertilized with (NH4)2SO4 as nitrogen (N) source at a rate of 49 kg N ha-1 and 13 mm of daily irrigation was applied while the plants were sufficient in N. In addition chloride was utilized as a nitrate tracer. In the first study, NO3 was detected after 2 L of effluent volume from the sand profiles and peaked at 13 to 14 mg NO3-N L-1 at 3 L of effluent volume. Nitrate leaching was not affected by the cultivation treatments. However, at a higher daily irrigation schedule (13.7 to 27.4 mm d-1), NO3 concentration from the sand profiles reached 18 to 20 mg NO3-N L-1 but the differences between cultivated and uncultivated profiles were less pronounced compared with the low irrigation regime. Nitrate leaching was not detected from the sandy clay profiles for any of the two irrigation regimes due to a large amount of N plant uptake. In the third study, NO3 leaching from the sandy profiles peaked more rapidly from the shallow and deep cultivated profiles reaching 54 mg NO3-N L-1 for both treatments. Water injected and uncultivated profiles peaked at 45 mg NO3-N L-1. Chloride analysis suggested that macropore flow through cultivation holes did not affect solute flow past the root zone in the sand profiles. The mass of NO3-N lost by leaching differed between studies according to the irrigation rates and the level of N sufficiency of the plants. It was concluded that under proper management practices, turfgrass cultivation is not expected to enhance nitrate leaching.
24126731|Three intensities of winter pruning and of water restriction were assessed in a three-year-old early maturing peach cultivar under orchard and pot training, respectively. Under increasing intensities of pruning, peach growth was not limited at fruit maturity, whereas peach growth was limited under increasing water restriction. Severe pruning and high water restriction contributed to reducing the total shoot length compared to the control trees. Stem water potential decreased under severe pruning and high water restriction, whereas leaf stomatal conductance and transpiration rate were enhanced under severe pruning and limited under high water restriction. Leaf temperature and sub-stomatal CO2 concentration did not vary under different pruning intensities, whereas they increased and decreased, respectively, under increasing water restriction. Under the different pruning intensities, leaf stomatal conductance and transpiration rate were correlated to the shoot length per unit fruit-bearing shoot length, suggesting that vegetative growth could be an alternate sink to the one induced by fruit growth.
24126661|Position within the canopy and shoot type can affect final fruit quality in peach (Prunus persica (L.) Batsch). In this study we examined the variation of vegetative growth, crop load, and fruit quality within vase-shaped peach canopies. In four adult 'Fairtime' peach trees trained to vase, each shoot was labeled and numbered from the top to the bottom of each branch and consequently also in a centripetal direction with respect to the main axis. The length and diameter of each 1-year-old shoot was measured, and the number of sprouts and fruits was recorded. Fruit weight and soluble solid content (SSC) were measured at commercial harvest to determine fruit quality. Total shoot length, yield, total number of fruits, average shoot length, and number of fruits per shoot decreased from top/outside to bottom/inside of the canopy according to a cubic model with a lag phase in the middle part of each branch. Yield per shoot declined linearly from top/outside to bottom/inside of the canopy, whereas SSC decreased exponentially. Shoot diameter, number of sprouts, and number of fruits per shoot were proportional to shoot length, whereas SSC was directly correlated to shoot length and diameter and number of fruits and sprouts.
24126487|Objectives of the present study were to examine the effects of ethylene and the ethylene perception inhibitor 1-methylcyclopropene (1-MCP) on the senescence of flowers of the orchid genera Oncidium and Odontoglossum. Cut inflorescences and entire potted plants were treated continuously with 1 L L-1 ethylene and compared to untreated controls. In addition, detached flower stalks and potted plants were pre-treated with 200 nL L-1 1-MCP for 6 h at 20 C. The inflorescences and potted plants treated with 1 L L-1 ethylene showed accelerated symptoms of senescence, like wilting of the florets and petals. Other remarkable effects of ethylene were the yellowing of the pedicels and bud dropping on cut inflorescences as well as the yellowing of leaves on potted plants. Control, non-ethylene treated, flowers showed these symptoms 38 d later. The plants pre-treated with 1-MCP expressed an increase in shelf life from 210 d in absence or presence of ethylene. In conclusion, genera Oncidium and Odontoglossum have been proven sensitive to ethylene, and 1-MCP improved their postharvest quality if plants are exposed to exogenous ethylene.
24126428|In storage of grafted cuttings, development of graft union at beginning of storage is important, because the scions are easy to be exposed to water stress during storage when the vascular tissues are not connected. Warming treatments were carried out to eggplant grafted cuttings by soaking the cuttings in warmed nutrient solution from the basal cut-end to the graft union at beginning of storage to improve the graft development. The treatment was applied for 4 d at the beginning of the 28 d storage. Values of the chlorophyll fluorescence parameter PSII of the warmed cuttings did not decrease significantly during the 28 d storage, but those of the non-warmed cuttings did. The net photosynthetic rate of scion leaves decreased during storage in warmed and non-warmed cuttings, but values were higher in the warmed cuttings than in the non-warmed. Leaf conductance and water content in the scions of the warmed cuttings was maintained during storage, whereas those of non-warmed decreased. Rooting from the rootstock was not initiated during the 28 d storage. When cuttings were grown for 4 d in a growth chamber following storage, fresh weights of both shoot and root from warmed cuttings were significantly greater than those from non-warmed, control and non-stored cuttings. Those results indicate that the storage quality of the grafted cuttings was improved by warming of the graft union at the beginning of storage, which probably improved the development of the graft union and thereby improved water and nutrient supply to the scion.
24126875|The focus of our investigation was the influence of various rootstocks for peach of different genetic origin on phytochemical composition in the phloem above and below the graft union, and the role of phenols in graft compatibility/incompatibility. Assays of phloem with cambium from 6-year-old 'Royal Glory' peach trees, grafted on rootstocks of various genetic origin, peach seedling (Prunus persica L.), GF 677 and Monegro (both hybrids of Prunus persica L.  Prunus amygdalus L.), Cadaman and Barrier (both hybrids of Prunus persica L.  Prunus davidiana L.), and Penta and Tetra (both belonging to Prunus domestica L.) were analysed with HPLC-MS. Twenty-one phenolics were detected in the phloem of Prunus persica and their hybrid rootstocks, and 10 phenolics in Prunus domestica rootstocks. The most abundant phenolic group in the phloem of Prunus persica and Prunus domestica rootstocks was the flavanols. 'Royal Glory' is highly compatible with peach seedling, GF 677 and Monegro rootstocks. In Cadaman rootstock, accumulation of all flavonols, and in Barrier, the flavonols quercetin 3-glucoside and isorhamnetin 3-glucoside, and the flavanone prunin were observed above the graft union, which is related to graft incompatibility. Hydoxycinnamic acids, unknown phenols as well as two dimeric procyanidins were present only in plum rootstocks. The level of all analysed flavonols, flavanone naringenin hexoside, and flavanols (except catechin, epicatechin and procyanidin B1) were significantly higher above the graft union in Prunus domestica rootstocks, which indicates that flavonols could also be involved in the graft incompatibility process.
24126910|Several studies have demonstrated that the establishment of bermudagrass [Cynodon dactylon (L.) Pers.] in transition zones should take place as early as possible in spring in order to avoid damage in the winter of the first year. To define the base germination temperature of some commercial common bermudagrass cultivais in Europe, a laboratory study was conducted from April to May 2013 at the Agricultural Research Council Laboratory of Tavazzano (Lodi). Ten bermudagrass cultivais: 'Gobi', 'Sunbird', 'SR9554', 'Princess77', 'Yukon', 'Riviera', 'Transcontinental', 'Casin Royal', 'Savannah', and 'La Paloma' were tested at alternating temperature regimes 0/10 C, 5/15 C, 10/20 C, 15/25 C to assess final germination percentage and seed vigour through calculation of the Germination Rate Index and Corrected Germination Rate Index. This study shows that seeded bermudagrass cultivais have significantly different germination capacity at the tested temperatures. In addition, findings indicate that seeded bermudagrass can even germinate at temperatures of 10/20 C, corresponding to an average temperature of 15 C. Among tested cultivars 'Riviera' showed the slowest germination.
24134259|The following research was undertaken to determine the effect of propagation container volume on growth of Impatiens walleriana, an important bedding plant, at the commercial sale stage. Impatiens walleriana 'Accent White' seeds were germinated and grown on four different plastic plug trays (50, 128, 288 and 512 cells per tray). When plants reached the transplant stage, twenty plants for each plug tray were transplanted into 800 cm3 pot-1. Our results showed that the restrictions imposed on the root system, when plants are grown in smaller plug cell trays, decreased the dry weight accumulation at transplant and sale stages. The changes in the shoot/root ratio at transplant stage may explain the lesser plant growth in the 512 cells plug tray. There were changes in root system characteristics (both main root length and root thickness) and in total porosity at transplant stage. The highest dry weight accumulation in plants from the 50 plugs tray and the relationship with post-sale behaviour was discussed. Ziel der Untersuchungen war fr Impatiens walleriana, einer wichtigen Beetpflanze, im Verkaufstadium die Auswirkung der zur Jungpflanzenkultur verwendeten Topfgre auf das Pflanzenwachstum zu ermitteln. Saatgut der Impatiens walleriana-Sorte 'Accent White' wurde in vier unterschiedlichen Multitopfplatten aus Styropor (50, 128, 288 oder 512 Einheiten pro Platte) ausgest und kultiviert. Sobald die Pflanzen das Topfstadium erreicht hatten, wurden sie in 800 cm3-Tpfe getopft. Unsere Ergebnisse zeigten, dass die durch die Kultur in kleineren Topfeinheiten bedingten Beschrnkungen des Wurzelsystems, die Trockengewicht-Zunahme der Pflanzen im Topfund Verkaufsstadium reduzierten. Die Vernderungen des Spross/Wurzel-Verhltnisses im Topfstadium knnten das geringere Wachstum in den 512er-Topfplatten erklren. Im Topfstadium sind Vernderungen in den Wurzelsystem-Eigenschaften (sowohl bei der Wurzellnge als auch der dicke) und im Gesamtporenvolumen zu beobachten. Die hchste Trockensubstanz-Zunahme in den in 50er-Topfplatten kultivierten Pflanzen und der sich daraus ergebende Einfluss auf das Verhalten der Pflanzen beim Kunden wird diskutiert.
24126381|Fresh-cut butter lettuce inoculated with Listeria innocua was stored under controlled atmospheres (CA) containing 5 kPa O2 and 0 kPa CO2, 5 kPa O2 and 15 kPa CO2, 75 kPa O2 and 0 kPa CO2, 75 kPa O2 and 15 kPa CO2, and 21 kPa O2 and 0 kPa CO2 (as control) for 10 days at 7 C. The growth of L. innocua, aerobic mesophilic bacteria, lactic acid bacteria and yeasts was studied. Additionally, the respiration rates and visual appearance of the butter lettuce were monitored in all treatments. The browning was measured on the lettuce stems using L*, chroma and hue values. High CO2 conditions promoted the growth of L. innocua. No O2 effect was found on the growth of L. innocua. However, when high O2 and CO2 conditions were combined, a reduction in the aerobic mesophilic bacterial count was observed. A high O2 condition alone could reduce the mesophilic count to the same extent as low O2 levels combined with high CO2 levels while avoiding anaerobic fermentation reactions. The studied CA conditions slightly affected the respiration rates of fresh-cut butter lettuce. CO2 treatments decreased the browning of the lettuce stems. Colour changes were also slightly delayed on the stems under high O2 levels. At the end of the storage period, fresh-cut butter lettuce stored under 75 kPa O2 with 15 kPa CO2 had the best visual appearance.
24126842|The effect of different maximum day temperatures (21.7, 23.7, 26.2 and 29.1 C) was studied in basil, sage, rocket, thyme, lemon balm, cilantro, rosemary and Oregano in CO2 enriched (800 pmol mol-1) daylight phytotron compartments. In addition, four of the species were covered with coloured plastic film in order to control plant morphogenesis (increased ratio of red/far red light). The dry weight of all species responded positively to maximum temperatures above 21.7 C, cilantro and Oregano up to 23.7 C, basil, rocket and lemon balm up to 26.2 C, and sage, thyme and rosemary up to 29.1 C. The plastic film reduced the dry weight of basil, sage, rocket and thyme by 46 % 29due to a 34 % reduction in photosynthetically active radiation. In general, it was concluded that higher temperatures than those normally used should be applied in order to increase growth. The use of coloured plastic film to control morphogenesis, however, reduced plant growth and appeared to be of no practical benefit.
24126638|In the sour cherry cv. 'Stevnsbaer' the content of starch in flower buds was investigated at 5 different flower bud developmental stages. The investigation included 4 different rootstocks: Colt, Weiroot 10, F12/1 and Gisela 5. The starch content of the flower buds was studied in order to examine if it could be correlated to the final fruit set and thereby contributes to the description of flower bud quality. Samples of flower buds were sectioned and stained with Lugols-solution for microscopic analysis of starch. The content of starch in 3 precisely defined parts of the flower buds: Right and left side of the integument and the nucellar tip, was quantified by a computerised image analysing system at 5 different developmental stages. It was demonstrated that starch reserves in flower buds of 'Stevnsbaer' was mobilised to integumentary cells at the early balloon stage; before the early balloon stage nearly no starch was observed at the integumentary cells. In the nucellar tip the content of starch was very limited. No difference in starch content at early balloon was observed among the 4 different rootstocks. In the present study, fruit set was generally satisfactory (24 and 34%). Our investigation did not demonstrate a correlation between the starch content in flower buds and the fruit set.
24126853|In this research, ISSR and SSR markers were used to analyze genetic variation of Marmareh (Prunns incana Pall.), a wild plant species from north-west regions of Iran. Totally, 12 applied ISSR primers generated 144 polymorphic bands (96.45 % polymorphism), with an average of 12 polymorphic bands per primer. Also, a total of 17 amplification alleles were detected by three SSR primers. Of these, 13 alleles were polymorphic, with an average polymorphism of 75.24 %. The similarity values based on integrating ISSR and SSR data varied from 0.07 to 0.69 between accessions, indicating high intraspecific genetic variation. Some accessions of P. incana were defined to be genetically different from the majority accessions and showed high variability, probably due to gene flow or seed propagation. The accessions collected from Sanandaj and Goshji regions were clearly differenced from others. The data generated will be useful for conservation and management of P. incana germplasm and important for Prunus breeding programs.
24127099|In two nursery species important for European forests and landscape, Quercus robur and Fagus sylvatica, the impact of spacing in the seedbed on morphological characters such as height, dry weight, number of first-order-roots and first-order branches (only beech) was assessed after two-years. Height, dry weight of shoot, root, dry weight ratio between root and shoot and percentage of seedlings with six or more first-order roots were all negatively affected at lower spacing. Subsequently the effect of spacing on early field performance was determined after transplanting for two years in competition with grass and without irrigation and fertilisation simulating conditions in a forest. The initial differences between spacings in relation to dry weight were still present after two-years of transplanting. Height increment was small in oak and substantial in beech, but the initial differences in height between spacings were more or less maintained after transplanting.
24126802|Spatial location of the reproductive organs within tree canopy is of a paramount importance in fruit cropping. This research was undertaken to determine the relationship between shoot location in tree canopies vs. shoot characteristics and flower formation potential. The experiment was carried out using 6-year-old 'Burlat' sweet cherry trees planted at the density 1000 trees ha-1. Tree canopies were divided into three horizontal zones located at and 250150,150250,250350 cm above the soil line. Shoot samples were taken from all zones to measure shoot length (SL), shoot diameter (SD), and the number of flower clusters (NFC). There was a close relationship between SL and SD vs. NFC, respectively. Shoots from the bottom and center zones were shorter, and had significantly higher NFC than those from the upper zone. Regardless of zone location, the correlation SL  NFC was approx. 31 % stronger than that of SD  NFC. Regression analysis for the entire canopy showed an exponential function relationship between the SL and NFC. The responses were fitted by an exponential function model with R2 = 0.877. The minimum and maximum NFC cm-1 of shoot length predicted by this model were 0.03 and 0.81 for the shoots 86 cm and 4 cm long, respectively. In order to stimulate formation of flower buds in the upper parts of young densely planted sweet cherry trees, it was suggested to replace invigorating dormant pruning by summer pruning.
24126206|The effects of ripening stage and storage time on quality parameters of red raspberry fruit of cvs. 'Resa', 'Rumiloba', 'Tulameen' and 'Schnemann' were investigated. The ripening stages semi-ripe, ripe and slightly over-ripe were defined by CIE L*a*b* colorimetric measurements. Fruits were stored at 0 d, 1 d at 20 C room temperature and 3 d at 24 C followed by 1d at room temperature, respectively. The parameters firmness, titratable acidity and fruit colour were strongly affected by ripening stage. Storage had a strong effect on the content of soluble solids and the suitability for shipping. Cultivar effects are presented. The sensory descriptive analysis showed an effect of progressed ripening on odour and taste, whereas storage time resulted in small effects, only. Popularity of fruits strongly correlated to attributes like sweetness, sweetness:acidity ratio and fruity taste. Despite low values in the evaluation of the fruits, the attribute untypical/strange was strongly negatively correlated to the popularity. Differences between cultivars are demonstrated. Interactions existed between cultivar x storage time and ripening stage x storage for firmness, suitability for shipping and some sensory parameters. This shows that semi-ripe fruits could have an improved suitability for shipping depending on the cultivar. However the taste of semi-ripe fruits should be considered. Bei den Himbeersorten 'Resa', 'Rumiloba', 'Tulameen' und 'Schnemann' wurden die Einflsse von Reifeentwicklung und Lagerzeit auf die Qualitt der Frchte untersucht. Die Reifestadien halbreif, reif und hochreif wurden mittels CIE L*a*b*-Farbmessungen definiert. Die Frchte wurden wie folgt gelagert: 0 d (Frischware), 1 d bei 20 C Zimmertemperatur und 3 d bei 24 C plus 1d Zimmertemperatur. Die Parameter Fruchtfestigkeit, Gehalt an Gesamtsure und Fruchtfarbe wurden am strksten durch die zunehmende Reifeentwicklung beeinflusst. Die Lagerung bte dagegen einen starken Einfluss auf den Gehalt an lslicher Trockensubstanz und die Verkaufsfhigkeit der Frchte aus. Sorteneinflsse werden dargestellt. Die deskriptive Sensorik ergab einen wesentlichen Einfluss der Reife auf Geruchs- und Geschmacksparameter, whrend die Lagerung nur zu geringen Vernderungen fhrte. Die Beliebtheit der Frchte war stark positiv mit den Attributen Se, Zucker:Sure-Verhltnis und fruchtig korreliert. Das Attribut untypisch/fremd erreichte in der Bewertung nur ein sehr geringes Niveau, war aber dennoch stark negativ mit der Beliebtheit der Frchte korreliert. Sortenunterschiede in der sensorischen Bewertung werden aufgezeigt. Wechselwirkungen zwischen Sorte x Lagerung und Reife x Lagerung fr die Parameter Festigkeit, Verkaufsfhigkeit und einigen sensorischen Eigenschaften geben Hinweise darauf, dass halbreif geerntete Frchte sortenabhngig eine bessere Verkaufsfhigkeit auch nach Lagerung aufweisen knnten. Hierbei darf der Geschmack der halbreifen Frchte allerdings nicht unbeachtet bleiben.
24126701|Prohexadione-calcium (ProCa) applied as foliar spray, increases root to shoot ratio and reduces specific leaf area (SLA) in strawberry plants (Fragaria  ananassa Duch.). These effects may help treated plants to survive a transplant shock. Under mild water stress, ProCa caused a transient reduction in leaf stomatal conductance (gs) in 'Camarosa' and 'Sweet Charlie' plants. This reduction in gs was paralleled by a decrease in transpiration in treated plants, which was not attributable to differences in plant size or leaf area. Pressure volume curves of 'Sweet Charlie' plants revealed that ProCa application lowered leaf osmotic potential at both full and zero turgor, and increased the volumetric modulus of elasticity. ProCa treatment regulated the leaf morphology of strawberry and preconditioned strawberry plants to tolerate water stress. Under field conditions in the plasticulture fruit production system, newly transplanted bare-root strawberry plants had a progressively higher water potential (1) and gs with a longer overhead irrigation. Plants treated with ProCa had a higher 1 and gs than control plants at the same level of overhead irrigation. Application of ProCa to strawberry transplants may in part be able to replace overhead irrigation and at the same time maintain acceptable levels of fruit yield.
24126252|The aim of this project was to investigate the marketability limits of old tomato cultivars used in organic farming and to maintain their biodiversity by promoting consumption on regional markets. Four old and endangered tomato cultivars, 'Ananas', 'Auriga', 'Green Zebra' and 'Lukullus', were treated with 0 and 100 kg N ha-1 applied as horn splinters. Harvesting was performed at early and optimum fruit maturity. All cultivars clearly differed in colour, shape and maturity of fruits. Nutritional quality and health promoting compounds were analysed in terms of beneficial ingredients such as ascorbic acid (vitamin C) and carotenoids (lutein, -carotene and lycopene). Significant differences in nutritional quality of cultivars were detected. The highest contents of ascorbic acid and carotenoids were determined in cv. 'Lukullus'. High amounts of soil - borne nitrogen resulted in no significant effects of N fertilization on N uptake, ascorbic acid and carotenoid contents. Harvest at the optimal ripening stage showed a higher ascorbic acid content in comparison to an early harvest.
24126279|In the presented study, the role of paclobutrazol (N-dimethylaminosuccinamic acid) as a growth regulator influencing in vitro rooting was not confirmed. A simultaneous application of paclobutrazol and auxin (indole-3-acetic acid potassium salt) did not show any positive effect on rhizogenesis in experiments with four different Prunus rootstocks. In variants with paclobutrazol, numbers of roots and their lengths were equal or lower than in controls (i.e. without paclobutrazol and auxin). The application of auxin showed a positive effect on the both number and the length of roots.
24126450|Physiological disorders (deep suture, fruit cracking, and double fruit), and fruit quality of 'Van' sweet cherry (Prunus avium L.) cultivar in relation with irrigation, gibberellic acid (GA3) and nitrogen (urea) were studied. Irrigation treatments were tested as 100 % (full irrigation), 50 % (moderate water stress) and 20 % (severe water stress) replenishment of water depleted from the 100 % replenishment treatment at 90 cm soil profile at ten day intervals. GA3 and nitrogen were applied to trees during flower bud differentiation period at the doses of 100 mg L-1 and 900 mg L-1, respectively. Lowest amount of double fruits were obtained from I50+N+GA3 application. Deep suture were most seen in the fruits exposed to moderate water stress plus nitrogen application. Fruit cracking was not affected statistically significant by any of the applications. All of the quality attributes of cherry fruits were statistically influenced by all the treatments and weather conditions.
24126213|We have investigated the influence of cold acclimation on the mechanical strength of carrot (Daucus carota L.) taproots. Changes in the mechanical strength were monitored when cold acclimation was induced in carrot plants cultivated in a growth chamber under strict climate control and in taproots harvested from field cultivation, where the plants had been exposed to the natural variations in climate. The appearance and accumulation of an antifreeze protein in the cell wall isolated from cold-stored taproots showed that a cold acclimation process is in progress in the harvested taproot derived from carrot plants grown in the field. The force needed to slice the taproots significantly increased during the first 12 weeks of storage, where the higher concentration of the antifreeze protein indicated the highest development of cold acclimation during that period of time. The increase in tissue rigidity during cold acclimation was also shown by the increase of the Young's modulus in taproot tissue from carrot plants acclimated 11 weeks under controlled temperature conditions. After 24 weeks of storage there was a significant increase in slicing force that was accompanied by signs of cell membrane deterioration, as measured by relative electrolyte leakage. Thus, the later increase in tissue strength might be related with a senescence process. Wir haben den Einfluss von Klteanpassung auf die Festigkeitseigenschaften von Mhrenrben (Daucus carota L.) untersucht. Sowohl bei Mhren, die in Pflanzenwuchskammern mit exakter Klimafhrung angezogen worden waren, als auch bei solchen, die im Freiland unter natrlichen Klimabedingungen kultiviert wurden, konnten Vernderungen der Festigkeitseigenschaften als Folge einer Klteanpassung nachgewiesen werden. Das Auftreten und die Akkumulation eines Gefrierschutzproteins in den Zellwnden von khlgelagerten Mhrenrben deutet darauf hin, dass die Prozesse der Klteanpassung bei den Freilandmhren zum Zeitpunkt der Ernte bereits induziert waren. Die Kraft, die zum Schneiden der Mhren aufgebracht werden musste, stieg in den ersten zwlf Lagerwochen signifikant an. Zum gleichen Zeitpunkt konnte in den Mhren auch eine hhere Konzentration an Gefrierschutzprotein nachgewiesen werden, was auf die hchste Klteanpassungsrate hinweist. Im Wurzelgewebe von elf Wochen unter kontrollierten Bedingungen akklimatisierten Mhren zeigte sich die Zunahme der Gewebefestigkeit auch im Anstieg des ermittelten Elastizittsmoduls (Young's modulus). Nach 24 Wochen Lagerung erhhte sich die Schneidkraft signifikant. Dies ging mit Anzeichen von Zellmembranzerstrung, gemessen als relativer Elektrolytverlust, einher. Der spter auftretende Anstieg der Gewebefestigkeit knnte demnach Folge einer beginnenden Seneszenz sein.
24126299|Stored organic and mineral nutrients are essential for spring growth of ligneous woody plants. The nitrogen (N) and potassium (K) dynamics were studied on Ligustrum ovalifolium L. grown in container for two years with or without fertilisation during the second spring. Allocation of nutrient elements towards new shoots was determined. Nutrient transport in the xylem sap was qualified and quantified by a mathematical coupling between sap flow velocity and sap composition. Sap nutrient concentrations increased after bud break, corresponding to an accumulation of mobilised elements before their use for shoot growth. Glutamine and K were identified as the main compounds translocated in the xylem sap and are a consequence of both mobilisation and uptake by roots of fertilised plants. They were mobilised from storage throughout spring although uptake by roots started just after the beginning of shoot growth. In unfertilised plants, N amounts in shoots were close to that of total N which circulated in xylem sap. On the other hand, total N and K circulating in the xylem sap of fertilised plants, and K of unfertilised plants, were higher than the amounts accumulated in shoots. The differences were attributed to the nutrient replenishment of perennial organs and to the internal N and K re-circulating between shoots and roots. The roles of the internal N and K re-circulating are discussed. Eingelagerte organische und mineralische Nhrstoffe sind fr den Austrieb von verholzten Pflanzen lebenswichtig. Die Stickstoff- (N-) und Kalium- (K-)Dynamik wurde whrend des zweiten Frhlings an zwei Jahre mit und ohne Dngung in Containern kultivierten Pflanzen von Ligustrum ovalifolium L. untersucht. Es wurde die Verlagerung von Nhrstoffen hin zu neuen Trieben bestimmt. Der Nhrstofftransport im Xylemsaft wurde qualitativ und quantitativ durch eine mathematische Formel aus Geschwindigkeit und Zusammensetzung des Saftflusses analysiert. Mit dem Aufbrechen der Knospen erhhte sich die Nhrstoffkonzentration im Xylemsaft entsprechend der Anhufung von moblisierten Nhrelementen vor ihrer Verwendung fr das Sprosswachstum. Glutamin und K wurden als Hauptkomponenten der Verlagerung im Xylemsaft identifiziert was sowohl auf eine Mobilisierung als auch auf die Aufnahme durch die Wurzeln von gedngten Pflanzen zurckzufhren ist. Sie werden das ganze Frhjahr ber aus den Einlagerungen mobilisiert, obwohl ihre Aufnahme durch die Wurzeln schon direkt nach dem Beginn des Sprosswachstums startet. In ungedngten Pflanzen entspricht die N-Menge in den Sprossen annhernd dem im Xylemsaft zirkulierenden Gesamt-N. Andererseits waren die im Xylemsaft zirkulierenden Mengen an Gesamt-N und K in gedngten und an K in ungedngten Pflanzen hher als die in den Sprossen angehufte Menge. Die Unterschiede wurden auf die Einlagerung von Nhrstoffen in mehrjhrigen Organen und auf die interne Verschiebung von N und K zwischen Sprossen und Wurzeln zurckgefhrt. Die Bedeutung dieser internen Verschiebung von N und K wird diskutiert.
24126874|The objective of the present study was to investigate the effect of moderately limited soil water supply on root C allocation and root respiration of non-bearing apple trees. Potted 1-year-old apple trees of 'Budagovski 9' grown in sand where water content was reduced (7 % w:w) were compared to plants grown in soil irrigated at field capacity (12 % w:w). Canopies were labelled with 13CO2 and excess 13C allocation within tree organs and evolution from the soil were monitored for 16 days after the labelling. The moderate reduction of soil water content induced a decrease in predawn leaf water potential and leaf gas exchange; however, root and above ground dry weight were not affected. Compared to well-watered control, trees growing in condition of moderately limited soil water supply fixed a lower amount of pulsed 13C. From day 1 to 16, 13C concentration decreased in leaf, increased in root and trunk, and was stable in herbaceous shoots, in both irrigation treatments, with no difference in the 13C partitioning. Root respiration rate of new fixed 13C was reduced by water limitation, was linearly related to the amount of excess 13C allocated into the roots, and became equal to zero by day 16.
24126846|In organic growing optimized harvest time might be an alternative method for avoiding storage diseases. In three years, organically grown apples of 'Aroma' were picked five times at one-week intervals, from two weeks prior to, to two weeks after recommended normal harvest time. The apples were cold stored until February 1 and then kept for two weeks at 20 C. At harvest, fruit quality differed with harvest time, but after storage, time of harvest had no effect on fruit quality. In mean of three years, fruit decay after storage was significandy higher when picked after, compared to prior to recommended harvest time. The most important causes of postharvest fruit decay were Colletotrichum acutatum and Neofabraea spp.
24127673|In vitro mutagenesis and somaclonal variation are the important tissue culture techniques for fruit crop improvement. We carried out a study to induce salt tolerance in a commercial citrus rootstock, 'Rough Lemon' (Citrus jambhiri Lush.) using these techniques. For in vitro mutation induction, physical mutagen (gamma rays) and chemical mutagens viz., ethyl methane sulphonate (EMS) and methyl methane sulphonate (MMS) were used. For physical mutagenesis, 40 and 60 days old calli (DOC) were irradiated with gamma rays (0, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50 and 60 Gy). The chemical mutagenesis was carried out on 45 and 60 DOC by culturing them directly (control I) or prior to culturing, shaked in liquid medium without (control II) or with mutagens (EMS and MMS) treatment at different concentrations (0.1, 0.2, 0.3 and 0.4 %). Based on the survival and the regeneration potential, 1020 and 20 30 Gy were observed to be the optimum mutagenic doses of gamma rays for 40 and 60 DOC, respectively. For chemical (EMS and MMS) mutagenesis, 0.1 % each was the most suitable dose for 45 DOC, whereas 60 DOC did not regenerate after mutagens treatment. Salt concentration of > 25 mM (NaCl) was found to be optimum for in vitro salt screening of the somaclones and mutants. Four somaclones at 25 mM and one each at 50 and 100 mM were obtained after exposing 170 DOC to different concentrations of NaCl (0, 25, 50, 75 and 100 mM).
24126136|The influence of seed maturity and osmopriming on germination and vigour variations in developing tomato seeds was analysed. Seeds were harvested at various maturity classes based on fruit colour. Results revealed that the physiologically mature seeds showed higher percentage germination, robust and healthy seedlings, greater seedling vigour index (SVI) and longer storability. Priming enhanced the germination behaviour of low vigour and ageing seeds. The seedling mortality and abnormal seedlings were higher in the overmature, mature and immature classes, respectively. Gegenstand dieser Untersuchung war der Einfluss des Reifegrades und des osmotischen Primings auf die Keimung und die Vitalitt von Tomatensaatgut. Die Samen wurden in unterschiedlichen, auf der Fruchtfarbe basierenden Reifeklassen geerntet. Die Ergebnisse zeigten, dass physiologisch reife Samen eine hhere Keimrate, widerstandsfhige und gesunde Smlinge, einen hheren Smlingsvitalittsindex (SVI) und eine lngere Lagerfhigkeit aufweisen. Das Priming verstrkte das Keimverhalten von wenig vitalem und lterem Saatgut. Die Rate absterbender und abnormaler Smlinge war in der berreifen, reifen beziehungsweise unreifen Klasse hher.
24126831|Diurnal variations of gas exchange and chlorophyll fluorescence (CF) parameters were measured in hawthorn (Crataegus pinnatifida Bge.) six days after foliar application of L-glutamic acid (Glu) (0, 200, 400 and 800 mg L-1) that possibly affect flavonoids metabolite. The net photosynthetic rate (An), carboxylation efficiency (CE), maximum carboxylation velocity of Rubisco (Vcmax), chlorophyll (Chl) content and stomatal limitation (Ls) were higher in 800 mg L-1 exogenous glutamic acid treatment than in control. The application of 800 mg L-1 Glu always resulted in a higher An, particularly at noon. Although a midday depression in An occurred in all the treatments, the depression was less obvious in the 800 mg L-1 Glu treatment when compared to the control. The electron transport per active reaction centre (ET0/RC) was similar in all the treatments and the control, but the maximal fluorescence level (Fm), the maximal quantum yield of photosystem II (PSII) (Fv/Fm), the potential quantum yield of PSII (Fv/Fo), the maximal quantum yield of PSII after dark adaptation (Po), as well as the probability that an absorbed photon will move an electron into the electron transport chain beyond QA (o) were significantly higher than the control with the application of 800 mg L-1 Glu. A 800 mg L-1 Glu application enhanced energy absorption per active reaction centre (ABS/RC) and energy trapping per active reaction centre (TR0/RC) of PSII, which, consequently, increased energy transformation and electron conversion efficiency and decreased energy dissipation per active reaction centre (DI0/RC). These findings suggest that the application of Glu could improve photosynthetic efficiency and the energy capture of antenna pigments for photochemical electron transport, as well as reduce photoinhibition.
24126710|Plants protect themselves against potentially harmful UV-B radiation mainly by epidermal accumulation of UV-B shielding phenolic compounds and repair of cellular damage. The capacity and necessity for these protection mechanisms alter with the stage of plant and leaf development, which might be crucial for horticultural hardening techniques aiming at a UV-B pre-acclimation of greenhouse grown seedlings before transplantation to the field. In order to examine the development-dependence of UV-B responses and to estimate the efficiency of different hardening strategies, lettuce (Lactuca sativa L., var. crispa L. 'Bughatti') was raised in greenhouses covered with a UV-B transmitting and a UV-B excluding covering material and transferred from one treatment to the other at the age of 20 days. Plant fresh mass and flavonoid content were frequendy determined. Distribution of flavonoids within the plants was assessed by extraction of different leaf age classes. Continuous exposure to near ambient UV-B induced a strong enhancement in cyanidin and quercetin content and a severe growth reduction, whereas late UV-B treatment merely led to a slight enhancement of quercetin in the absence of any growth response. At the leaf level, continuous UV-B exposure caused a comparable quercetin induction at all three stages of leaf development, whereas late treatment caused a much stronger response in young compared to intermediate and old leaves. These findings indicate that UV-B effects on growth and flavonoid content and pattern of lettuce plants are highly dependent on the leaf and plant developmental stage. We conclude that UV-B exposure throughout seedling development is a more efficient hardening strategy than late short-term exposure.
24126861|In ornamental plants grown in small pots, root growth is usually restricted. We have recendy shown that higher dry weights in Impatiens wallerana plants grown in large plug cell volumes (50-cell trays) are related to higher relative growth rates (RGRs). In this work we observed leaf anatomical post-transplant changes in plants of I. wallerana propagated at the pre-transplant stage in different plug cell volumes and sprayed with five BAP (6-benzylaminopurine) concentrations. Results showed that higher RGRs were mainly associated with increased net assimilation rates. In contrast the leaf area ratio seemed to be less important for RGR. Anatomical changes such as leaf thickness, stomata density and intercellular spaces seemed to contribute to increased photosynthetic capacity. We also found that a large leaf photosynthetic area was related to large epidermal cell size.
24126107|A leaf re-greening trial using both Fe-sufficient and deficient Citrus madurensis plants, was carried out over a period of 5 weeks. Attached green and chlorotic leaves were immersed in a 0.2% FeCl2 4H2O solution containing 0.05% Silwet L-7607 surfactant. Treatments were applied under light and dark conditions. Changes in leaf colour, chlorophyll content, and extractable Fe associated with FeCl2 4H2O supply were monitored. FeCl24H2O application resulted in higher chlorophyll contents and extractable Fe in chlorotic leaves. At the end of the experiment, the treated chlorotic leaves achieved similar rates of leaf chlorophyll content, colour and Fe-content to those of Fe-sufficient control leaves. Der Versuch zum Wiederergrnen von chlorotischen Zitrusblttern wurde an Citrus madurensis-Pflanzen durchgefhrt, die entweder Fe-Mangelsymptome aufwiesen oder ausreichend mit Fe versorgt worden waren. Am Baum befindliche Bltter wurden in eine 0,2% FeCl24H2O-Lsung getaucht, die zustzlich 0,05% Silwet L-7607 als Netzmittel enthielt. ber einen Zeitraum von 5 Wochen wurden Vernderungen der Blattfarbe, des Chlorophyllgehaltes und des extrahierbaren Fe-Gehaltes aufgezeichnet. Durch die FeCl24H2O-Applikation kam es zu einer Erhhung der Chlorophyll- und Fe-Gehalte in den chlorotischen Blttern. Am Ende des Versuches hatten die vormals chlorotischen Bltter vergleichbare Werte (Blattfarbe, Chlorophyll- und Fe-Gehalt) wie grne Bltter ohne Fe-Mangel.
24126452|Buxus sempervirens L. extant in a preserved renaissance parterre dating from ca. 1680 at Milde (Bergen, Norway) has been provisionally classified as the morphs 'Pendula', 'Suffruticosa', and "Yellow". These were thought a priori to represent distinct taxa, viz. cultivars. Shoot length, leaf hairiness, leaf width, leaf curvature, and lamina width-to-length ratio measured on 30 leaves in each individual allowed separation of the morphs in discriminant analysis. In AFLP analyses 7 primer combinations yielded informative data, producing 168 (57 %) polymorphic fragments. Based on the AFLP data, the three morphs in neighbour-joining bootstrap analyses formed well supported clades (100 % BP) and in a principal coordinate analysis formed distinctly separated and close clusters, indicating that the morphs are genetically distinct and the individuals of each morph are closely related. Biometrie analysis and finger printing techniques (AFLP) consistently show that the three morphs are both morphologically and genetically distinct. The three morphs are assumed to represent genetically distinct old cultivars introduced during the 17th or 18th century.
24126502|This study aimed to assess the influence of coir dust (CD) on the growth of stem cuttings of Hibiscus rosa-sinensis (shoe flower) and also to select the suitable proportion of CD and potting mixture (PM). Polybags were filled with different proportions (1:0 as a control, 3:1, 6:1, 9:1, 12:1) of PM and CD. PM was incorporated with sand: red soil: cow manure (1:1:1, v/v/v). A single node cutting was planted in each bag and kept in a net house. Growth parameters were measured at regular intervals. The addition of CD to soil improved plant growth characteristics such as the number of leaves, shoot length, leaf area, root length and weight of developed plant parts in PM:CD at 9:1. Soil pH and moisture content were low in the control but highinPM:CD at 12:1 and 3:1, respectively before and after the 6th and 12th weeks of planting cuttings. CD evidently absorbed a large amount of water thus increasing the moisture content of soil considerably. At the end of the 12th week, PM:CD at 9:1 resulted in best growth.
24126336|Chlorophytum borivilianum is an endangered aphrodisiac plant and most of the plants in nature are triploid. Agamospermic seeds of a triploid plant were used to initiate somatic embryogenesis. Plantlets obtained through seedlingderived embryonic callus showed high level of morphological and cytological variation, which increased with the increase in age of cultures. Variegated leaves were also observed occasionally. High level of variation in the leaf size, stomata number and epidermal cell size was observed. Increase in the variation in chromosome number was observed with the increase in age of cultures. Chromosomal variation was least 2n=3x-3 to 2n=3x+3 in 1 to 4 months-old cultures and increased with the age of cultures with 2n=5x-1 to 7x in cultures older than 6 months. Therefore, an alternative method was developed to reduce somaclonal variation in germinated somatic embryos, by using leaf from genetically stable plants (14 months-old cultures) as a source of expiants for re-initiation of fresh embryonic cultures. RAPD finger printing of plantlets raised by this method revealed very little variation (6.15 %). Further improvement in somatic embryogenesis is required towards domestication of the plant using biotechnological method of propagation.
24126420|Decreasing the night temperature in greenhouse production of plants decrease the energy costs. However, problems may arise as low night temperature (LNT) is known to increase leaf starch contents and delay plant development. In this study it was investigated whether increased CO2 concentrations can decrease the negative effects of LNT, when plants of vegetative Chrysanthemum morifolium 'Coral Charm' are grown under greenhouse conditions. Plants were grown under long day conditions (LD) with a photoperiod of 17 h in four compartments. The four compartments had a day temperature set point of 22 C, and four combinations of night temperatures and CO2 concentration during the day; the night temperature set points were 20 C and 12 C, and set points of CO2 concentrations were, ambient CO2 of 400 l l-1 and high CO2 of 900 l l-1. Plants were harvested after 3, 4 and 7 weeks. The leaf carbohydrate contents of the chrysanthemums differed in relation to harvest time and the photon flux density (PFD) measured outside the greenhouse. Treatments with high CO2 and low night temperature (LNT) increased leaf carbohydrate contents, but the effect was more pronounced at the 7 weeks harvest, where also the PFD was high. Generally, the treatment with high CO2 increased growth in terms of increased shoot dry matter (DM) and the formation of leaves in plants grown at LNT. LNT had the opposite effect decreasing shoot DM production, stem length and leaf number, but only at ambient CO2 concentrations. The results illustrate that when plants are grown in a combination with LNT and high CO2, the accumulation of leaf carbohydrates increases, however plant growth is less limited by the LNT in comparison to plants grown in LNT at ambient CO2 concentrations. It is suggested to include high CO2 concentrations in greenhouse production of Chrysanthemum morifolium, when grown under LNT.
24134253|Effects of various agronomic factors on onion {Allium cepa L.) raw material for a combined recovery of onion juice concentrate and onion oil were studied in respect to their impact on crucial onion quality traits such as pungency pungency  estimated as total pyruvic acid (PA)  and total soluble solids (TSS). Cultivar differences, year-to-year variability and effects of planting method, bulb size, S and N fertilization, as well as the impact of the type of preceding crop within a crop rotation were investigated in field trials. In a cultivar comparison of 16 cultivars, a weak correlation between TSS and PA was observed (r=0.64, P=0.008). In a year-to-year variability study PA ranking among six cultivars remained fairly constant over three years. The method of planting had a significant (P<0.05) effect on PA. Bulbs directly sown (cvs. 'Sturon' and 'Stuttgarter Riesen') showed increased pungency compared to bulbs grown from sets. Within a batch of onion bulbs (cv. 'Sturon'), grading for bulbs size exhibited no significant difference in PA among three calibres. In a crop rotation onions grown after legumes as preceding crop had significantly higher pungency (P<0.001) compared to onions grown after cereals. This effect is assumed to be a result of enhanced mineralisation of organic N and S sources. TSS contents were not significantly affected by any treatment. In fertilization experiments, a combined N (0 and 130 kg N ha-1) and S (0, 50 and 100 kg S ha-1) application increased pungency and showed a significant NxS interaction for PA (P=0.032), but not for bulb-S and bulb-N. No effect on TSS was observed. S application of 100 kg S ha-1 vs. 0 kg S ha-1 had no qualitative impact in terms of relative composition of major onion oil compounds and ratio of the biosynthetic aroma precursors methyl- and 1-propenyl-L-cysteine sulfoxide, but caused a remarkable increase of absolute amounts of volatiles (steam distillate), aroma precursors and industrially produced onion oil. Verschiedene agronomische Faktoren bei der Erzeugung von Zwiebelrohware fr eine kombinierte Zwiebelsaftkonzentrat- und Zwiebellgewinnung wurden hinsichtlich ihrer Auswirkungen auf qualittsbestimmende Merkmale wie lsliche Trockensubstanz (TSS) und Schrfe  angegeben als Pyruvat (PA)  untersucht. Die in Feldversuchen untersuchten Faktoren umfassen Sortenunterschiede, saisonale Schwankungen und Einflsse durch die Art der Pflanzung, Bulbengre, S- und N-Dngung, sowie die Art der Vorfrucht innerhalb einer Fruchtfolge. Bei einem Vergleich ber 16 Sorten konnte eine schwache Korrelation zwischen TSS und PA beobachtet werden (r=0,64, P=0,008). Saisonale Schrfeunterschiede zwischen 6 Sorten ergaben ber 3 Jahre keine erheblichen Auswirkungen auf die Rangordnung. Die Art der Pflanzung hatte eine signifikante Auswirkung (P<0,05) auf die Schrfe der Bulben. Saatzwiebeln (Cvs. 'Sturon' und 'Stuttgarter Riesen') wiesen eine erhhte Schrfe im Vergleich zu Steckzwiebeln auf. Eine Sortierung von Bulben einer Population in 3 Grenklassen ergab keinen signifikanten Unterschied der Pyruvatgehalte zwischen den Klassen. Verglichen mit Getreide als Vorfrucht erhhten Leguminosen als Vorfrucht in einer Fruchtfolge die Schrfe von Zwiebeln signifikant (P<0,001). Dieser Effekt wurde einer verstrkten Mineralisierung von organisch gebundenem N und S zugeschrieben. Signifikante Auswirkungen von Vorfrucht, Bulbengre oder Art der Pflanzung auf die lsliche Trockensubstanz konnten nicht beobachtet werden. In einem kombinierten N- und S-Dngungsversuch (0 und 130 kg N ha-1 bzw. 0, 50 und 100 kg S ha-1) wurde eine erhhte Schrfe und eine Wechselwirkung zwischen N und S (P=0,032) auf den Pyruvatgehalt festgestellt. Diese Wechselwirkung wurde allerdings nicht zwischen Bulben-S und Bulben-N beobachtet. Ein Vergleich zwischen einer S-Dngung mit 100 kg S ha-1 und einer ungedngten Kontrolle ergab weder qualitative Verschiebungen bei den Hauptaromakomponenten im Zwiebell noch eine Vernderung des Verhltnisses der Aromaprkursoren Methyl- und 1-Propenyl-L-Cystein Sulfoxid. Es konnte jedoch eine erhebliche Steigerung an absoluten Gehalten von flchtigen Aromakomponenten (Wasserdampfdestillat), Aromaprkursoren und industriell gewonnenem Zwiebell verzeichnet werden.
24126207|The aim of this research was to elucidate the impact of various mulches on N availability in the soil, the plant development, as well as the yield and quality of strawberries (Fragaria x ananassa Duch.). Field experiments were established in 1995 with the strawberry cv. 'Petrina' in the midlands of Switzerland. The following interrow soil covers were compared at a moderate rate of nitrogen fertilization (3  20 kg N ha-1): bare ground (control), black and white water-permeable Mypex films, straw added after planting and a living mulch of a non-winterhardy white clover (Trifolium repens L.). In the latter two systems, the rows were covered by bands of water-permeable black polyethylene plastic film (30 cm wide). The content of mineral nitrogen (Nmin) in the soil was measured in and between the rows (25 cm apart) and in different soil layers throughout crop development. Parameters of vegetative crop development, such as the formation of runners after planting and total leaf area per plant, were also measured. Moreover, concentrations of total N and nitrate in the leaf blades, fruit yield, fruit size, and parameters of fruit quality of cv. 'Petrina', e.g. soluble solids, titratable fruit acid, and the firmness and shelf life of the fruits were assessed. Black and white Mypex films did not have consistent effects on Nmin values in the soil. With continuous decreases in Nmin, winter straw mulch in particular reduced the risk of nitrogen leaching in the interrow area during winter. The white clover mulch treatment clearly decreased Nmin only in the year of planting. The white clover mulch treatment also resulted in a decrease in the number of runners. Ground cover management did not have a significant effect on leaf area. Straw and living clover mulches hindered flower formation, possibly as a result of shading. Moreover, the white clover mulch significantly decreased the fruit yield. Compared to the black Mypex film, the white film reduced the formation of runners, while the number of flowers increased slightly. The colour of the plastic mulches did not have a significant effect on the fruit yield. The size of the fruit was affected to a slight extent by the ground cover treatments. The content of titratable fruit acid increased in the straw and living clover mulch treatment. The fruits were, on average, most firm in the control treatment with bare ground. Based on these studies, we recommend using black and white plastic mulches for strawberry production on sandy loam under temperate conditions. In contrast, interline straw and living white clover mulches seem to have a detrimental effect on the development of the strawberry crop in flat planting systems under the studied agroecological conditions. In einer Neuanlage von Erdbeeren (Fragaria x ananassa Duch.) der Sorte 'Petrina' wurde im Jahre 1995 im schweizerischen Mittelland ein Versuch mit verschiedenen Mulchverfahren angelegt. Neben einem Kontrollverfahren mit offenem Boden kamen ganzflchige Abdeckungen mit schwarzem und weiem wasserdurchlssigem Bndchengewebe (Mypex) zum Einsatz. Im weiteren wurden alternative Mulchverfahren mit Stroh, das nach der Pflanzung im Zwischenreihenbereich ausgebracht wurde, sowie die Einsaat einer nicht winterharten Weikleesorte (Trifolium repens) geprft. Die Pflanzreihen wurden bei diesen beiden Verfahren mit einem 30 cm breiten Band von wasserdurchlssiger schwarzer Polyethylenfoe abgedeckt. Smtliche Bodenpflegeverfahren erhielten eine N-Dngung von 3 Gaben zu 20 kg N ha-1 auf die Pflanzreihe. Im Kulturverlauf wurde der Gehalt an mineralischem Stickstoff im Boden (Nmin) sowohl in den Pflanzreihen als auch im Abstand von 25 cm von den Pflanzreihen gemessen. Es wurden Parameter der vegetativen Pflanzenentwicklung, wie die Ausluferbildung im Pflanz jhr und die Entwicklung der gesamten Blattflche im Kulturverlauf erhoben. Auerdem wurden die Gehalte an Gesamtstickstoff und Nitrat in den Blattspreiten gemessen sowie der Fruchtertrag und die Fruchtgrsse ermittelt. Als Parameter der Fruchtqualitt wurden die Gehalte an lslicher Trockensubstanz und an titrierbaren Fruchtsuren sowie die Festigkeit und die Haltbarkeit der Frchte bestimmt. Die Verfahren mit schwarzem und weiem Bndchengewebe hatten im Vergleich zum Kontrollverfahren keinen klaren Einfluss auf die Nmin-Gehalte im Boden. Die im Zwischenreihenbereich ausgebrachte Strohschicht fhrte von der Pflanzung bis zum Vegetationsbeginn zu einer nachhaltigen Reduktion im Nmin-Gehalt. Die Weikleeeinsaat bewirkte nur im Pflanzjahr eine Verminderung des Nmin-Gehaltes. Whrend die Begrnung mit Weiklee eine geringere Ausluferbildung im Pflanzjahr zur Folge hatte, wurde die Entwicklung der Gesamtblattflche nicht nachweisbar von den Mulchverfahren beeinflusst. Strohmulch und die Weikleeeinsaat verminderten die Bltenbildung. Der reduzierte Bltenansatz resultierte beim Mulchverfahren mit Weiklee in einem signifikant verringerten Fruchtertrag. Ein Vergleich von schwarzem und weiem Bndchengewebe ergab, dass die weie Folienfarbe die Ausluferbildung herabsetzte, whrend die Bltenzahl auf weiem Mulchgewebe leicht hher lag als auf schwarzem. Die Folienfarbe hatte keinen nachweisbaren Effekt auf den Fruchtertrag. Die Fruchtgrsse wurde von den geprften Bodenpflegeverfahren nicht beeinflusst. Strohmulch und die Begrnung mit Weiklee erhhten den Gehalt an titrierbaren Fruchtsuren. Im Durchschnitt waren die Frchte in Parzellen mit offenem Boden fester als bei den Mulchverfahren. Die vorliegenden Untersuchungen zeigen, dass sich schwarze und weie Mulchfolien fr den Erdbeeranbau auf sandigen Lehmbden und unter gemigten klimatischen Bedingungen eignen. In flach gepflanzten Erdbeerkulturen knnen Stroh, das als Mulch zwischen den Pflanzreihen ausgebracht wird, sowie Begrnungen mit Weiklee die Kulturentwicklung negativ beeinflussen.
24126690|There is a need to identify alternative materials that can successfully substitute for the common organic peat. The growth of some bedding plants including Chrysanthemum multicaule.; Impatiens walleriana 'Accent', Pelargonium x hortorum 'Maverick', Petunia grandiflora 'Ultra', Salvia splendens 'Carabiniere' and Viola wittrockiana 'Crown' and 'Super Majestic' growing in Argentinean and Canadian peat was compared and the changes in total and air-filled porosity of the peat were recorded. Our results may let explain previous observations and showed that Argentinean peat does not seem to be an acceptable substitute for Canadian Sphagnum peat, because of the lower dry matter production of the plant, which could reduce bedding grower productivity.
24126354|Hand harvested carrots were kept with and without foliage for four days in a plant cuvette and their ethylene production, endogenous ethylene concentration, and corresponding 6-methoxymellein content were measured. Ethylene was analysed using photoacoustic spectroscopy. Ethylene emissions during postharvest were higher from carrots with foliage than without foliage. A varying light period during storage showed no effect on the ethylene emission rate. Emission increased during the first 10 hours for carrots without foliage but remained constant for carrots with foliage. Ethylene concentration in intercellular air space increased in carrots stored with and without foliage. Despite this, the concentration of 6-methoxymellein increased only during 4 days postharvest period when carrots were kept with leaves. However, for all treatments the final 6-methoxymellein-concentration remained below the tasting threshold. Photoacoustic spectroscopy has been shown to be a very sensitive technique to detect ethylene during product storage. Bundmhren, d. h. Mhren die mit Laub vermarktet werden, produzieren nur sehr geringe Mengen Ethylen. Mhren sind aber auch dafr bekannt, dass sie bereits auf geringe Ethylenkonzentrationen mit der Bildung von Bitterstoffen reagieren. Eine Bestimmung genauer Ethylenproduktionsraten ist daher fr die Entwicklung von Qualittsmanagementsystemen in der Nachernte von Gemsepflanzen unabdingbar. Handgeerntete Mhren mit und ohne Laub wurden vier Tage in einer Pflanzenkvette unter definierten Klimabedingungen gelagert und die Ethylenabgabe sowie endogene Ethylenkonzentration mittels photoakustischer Spektroskopie bestimmt. Es zeigte sich, dass die Ethylenemission in Mhren mit Laub hher war als in Mhren ohne Laub. Unterschiedliche Lichtregime hatten dabei keinen Einfluss auf die Ethylenproduktion. Nach dem Entfernen des Laubes stieg che Ethylenproduktion fr wenige Stunden wundinduziert an. Ein Anstieg endogener Ethylenkonzentration war fr Mhren mit und ohne Laub whrend der viertgigen Aufbewahrung zu verzeichnen. Die Konzentration des Bitterstoffs 6-Methoxymellein stieg hingegen nur in Mhren mit Laub an. In allen Versuchen blieb die 6-Methoxymellein-Konzentration unter der geschmacklichen Nachweisgrenze. Das photoakustische Nachweisverfahren erwies sich als geeignet fr den Ethylennachweis in Pflanzen mit sehr geringer Ethylenproduktion.
24126801|This work studied the effect of the renovation of the fruiting shoots after harvest on the reproductive behaviour of low-chilling peach trees cultivated in the central-east area of the province of Santa Fe (Argentina). After the harvest period, one group of plants was left unpruned (NP, control), while a second group of plants was pruned (P) by heading back or thinning out their bearing shoots. P did not affect flower density, fruit set and fruit load per plant at the next spring, but it significantly changed the distribution of fruits in the canopy, increasing the proportion of those located in the intermediate stratum of the tree (+ 10 to 40 %). P significantly reduced fruit size at the beginning of the fruit growth period, but the differences became insignificant at harvest, which was delayed three days by the pruning treatment. Fruit yield per tree was not significantly affected by summer pruning. Therefore, this cultural practice can be recommended in order to extend the pruning period of low chilling peach trees.
24126461|Micropropagated and vegetative (by rhizome cuttings) propagated plants of Christmas rose (Helleborus niger L.) were tested for their responses to the inoculation with microorganisms in order to optimize root growth and development. In our experiment, plants were inoculated with arbuscular endomycorrhizal fungi or/and Agrobacterium radiobacter. The investigation indicated that inoculation with A. radiobacter had significantly positive effect on growth and development of plants multiplicated by in vitro techniques as compared to the dual inoculation. This study indicates that, biotization can be beneficial to plant growth in in vitro plant production systems but inocula have to be carefully selected for this purpose.
24126636|The effects of five VAM fungi (Glomus etunicatum, Glomus caledonium, Glomus darum, Glomus mosseae, and mixed inoculum) on the nutritional status of four grapevine rootstocks (420 A, 41 B, 1103 P, and 'Rupestris du Lot') were investigated. One-year-old grapevine rootstock cuttings were rooted in perlite and transferred to black polyethylene bags filled with fumigated growing medium. A 40 g mycorrhizal soil band was used for each inoculation. The percentage of VAM inoculation, leaf area, N, P, K, and total sucrose contents of the leaves were determined. Ten months after inoculation, grapevine rootstocks were colonized by the VAM fungi at frequencies ranging from 47.0 to 64.1 %. Inoculations with G. etunicatum and G. darum significantly increased the leaf areas of 41 B, 420 A, and 1103 P rootstocks. The VAM fungi increased leaf P, but not N and K concentrations. Leaf total sucrose concentrations of the grapevine rootstocks were increased two- to four -fold with certain inoculums compared with the control.
24126466|Grey mould, caused by Botrytis cinerea, is the main reason of decay in harvested strawberries. Acetic acid (AA) vapour treatment considerably inhibits the growth of B. cinerea. For practical application, it is a prerequisite that antimicrobial treatments are gentle and guarantee the maintenance of internal quality, and fruit odour and flavour. Previous studies found indications that the odour of strawberries was affected by AA fumigation. Therefore, a panel test was performed to evaluate the conditions when strawberries were affected by AA treatments. For this purpose, fruit were fumigated with different AA concentrations (0,2 and 4 mg l-1) and stored for different times (2 and 26 h) in boxes wrapped with perforated plastic film. Concomitant with the sensory tests, mass losses and stiffness of fruit as well as their contents of soluble sugars (glucose, fructose, and sucrose), titratable acidity, vitamin C and total osmotic substances were determined. AA treatment of strawberries resulted in significantly increased water losses leading to fruit that are less stiff. While the soluble sugar or acid contents of fruit were not affected by AA fumigation, this treatment diminished the increase in vitamin C generally observed during storage. Strawberries did not show significant differences in flavour, independent of the AA concentration and storage time. However, members of a consumer panel noticed a significant change in odour even at an AA concentration of 2 mg l-1. The perception of unpleasant fruit odour increased during storage, though differences were not statistically significant compared with the results of the initial evaluation. In conclusion, AA vapour fumigation is not a suitable technique for strawberry disinfection.
24126451|Fundamental features, achievements, and special problems of plant/crop growth and development in the emergence phase are reviewed to provide a base for modelling, which will be reviewed in part VIb.
24126509|The effects of the application of indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) and 1,4-diaminobutane (putrescine) on the rooting and bud retention of cuttings from 'Tonda di Giffoni', 'Tonda Gentile delle Langhe', 'Daria' and 'Tonda Romana' Italian hazelnut cultivars has been investigated. Semi-hardwood stems were collected in July from the canopy and cut at every third node; the cuttings from the apical and basal portions of the stem were treated separately with IBA 1000 mg L-1, IBA 1000 mg L-1 combined with putrescine 1600 mg L-1, IBA 1500 mg L-1, IBA 2000 mg L-1. The cuttings were then placed on a planting bench for 60 d under mist. The presence of callus and the rooting, bud retention, number of roots per rooted cutting and mean root length were recorded. The dead cuttings and live cuttings without roots were also counted. The rooting ability resulted to be influenced by genotype, hormonal dosage and cutting diameter. The application of IBA 1000 mg L-1, IBA 1000 mg L-1 with putrescine and IBA 1500 mg L-1 increased the rooting percentage in 'Tonda di Giffoni', 'Tonda Gentile delle Langhe' and 'Daria', but different responses and percentages of bud retention were observed. 'Tonda di Giffoni' showed the highest percentages of rooting and bud retention, while 'Tonda Gentile Romana' showed poor rooting, even under the hormone treatments. The results have shown that IBA promotes rooting in hazelnut cuttings, but there is also a significant effect on bud retention in relation to the hormone concentration. In general, the use of basal cuttings from vigorous stems, together with treatments with the lowest dose of IBA able to induce rooting, is recommended to reduce bud abscission.
24126477|Plant growth regulators as well as sowing density are one of the most important factors affecting yield and metabolite formation of medicinal plants. A three-year field experiment examining the effects of two sowing densities (15  3 cm and 15  5 cm) and foliar application of growth regulators on root yield and ginsenoside content at American ginseng (Panax quinuefolius L.) was conducted. In mid-June of the 1st and 2nd year of growth, various growth regulators were evaluated against a control spray of water only: B-Nine 85 SP, Pommit Extra 110 SL and Arbostim 10 SL. The growth regulators tested significantly affected plant population, root weight and accumulation of root ginsenosides. Foliar applications of Pommit Extra and B-Nine during the first and second year, especially at lower densities, increased root weight, whereas Arbostim decreased them. Foliar application of all growth regulators tested (particularly of Pommit Extra and Arbostim) increased total root ginsenoside content after three year growth. Plant grown at higher densities (15  3 cm) contained relatively higher amounts of ginsenosides. Spraying American ginseng plants with Pommit Extra or B-Nine significantly increase yield of roots and ginsenosides content.
24126628|The aim of this study was to examine the effect of CO2 concentrations on diurnal carbon dioxide exchange rates (CER) including periods of high daytime temperatures in cut roses. Climatic conditions typical of winter as well as summer production were included. At a photon flux density (PFD) of 225 mol m-2 s-1 artificial light supplied 20 hours day-1 (winter production) a six-hour increase in temperature from 20 to 32 C had a minor effect on the CER when the CO2 concentration was maintained at 800 mol mol-1 CO2, while the CER decreased by 75 % when the CO2 concentration dropped to 370 mol mol-1. Under high light intensity typical of summer conditions (800 mol m-2 s-1 PFD), the CER was around 60 % higher at 800 pmol mol-1 CO2/32 C (simulating a closed greenhouse) as compared to 370 mol mol-1 CO2/22 C (simulating a ventilated greenhouse). In an experiment in summer daylight, the night temperature was 15 C and increased by 2.8 C per 100 mol m-2 s-1 PFD to a maximum of around 32 C. The CER was measured in two plant stands, one at 370 and the other at 800 mol mol-1 CO2. The overall effect over 17 days showed a significant correlation between the CER and the PFD (r2 = 0.74). Increasing the CO2 concentration from 370 to 800 mol mol-1 CO2 increased the CER by around 50 % during a six-hour period when the temperature reached 32 C. Due to the lack of any CO2 effect during morning and evening (lower temperatures), the overall diurnal CO2 effect was only 15 %. The results are discussed in relation to controlling the greenhouse climate in traditional greenhouses in winter as well as in closed greenhouses with internal cooling systems in summer.
24126140|Axillary buds of nodal sections from 2-year old trees of Gomortega keule (Mol.) Baillon, 'Queule', 'Keule', (Family: Gomortegaceae) were induced to sprout and developed many shoots in presence of 0.54 M naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and 4.44 M benzylaminopurine (BA) in a liquid WP-medium (Lloyd and McCown 1980) within a period of 2-3 weeks. After transfer to a medium containing 22.2 M BA, each new single node section of about 0.5 cm initiated numerous adventitious shoots; alternatively, roots were formed when these explants were transferred to a medium containing 2.95, 12.3 or 24.6 M indolebutyric acid (IBA). Root formation took place in presence of 24.6 M IBA in approx. 46 % of the sub-cultured nodal segments after a period of 3 months, leading to plantlets. Regeneration response was restricted to the sprouts of axillary buds; other explant-types tested, i.e. petioles, leaf, and internodal sections showed callus formation only and no other responses. In Achselknospen von Nodienexplantaten 2 Jahre alter Bumen von Gomortega keule (Mol.) Baillon, 'Queule', 'Keule', (Familie: Gomortegaceae) wurde die Sprossbildung induziert. In einem flssigen WP-Medium (Lloyd and McCown 1980) mit 54 M Naphthylessigsure (NAA) und 4.44 M Benzylaminopurin (BA) wurden innerhalb von 23 Wochen zahlreiche Sprosse gebildet. Nach dem Umsetzen auf ein Medium mit 22.2 M BA entwickelte jedes neue 0.5 cm groe Nodienexplantat zahlreiche Sprosse. Wurzeln wurden gebildet, wenn es auf einem Medium mit 2.95, 12.3 oder 24.6 M Indolbuttersure (IBA) kultiviert wurde. Annhernd 46 % der Nodienexplantate aus der Unterkultur bildeten nach 3 Monaten auf Medium mit 24.6 M IBA Wurzeln und entwickelten sich zu Pflnzchen. Eine Regeneration fand nur bei Sprossen aus Achselknospen statt, die anderen untersuchten Explantate wie Blattstiele, Bltter und Internodien reagierten nur mit Kallusbildung.
24126648|Germination and early growth (21 days) of Chinese cabbage (.Brassica pekinensis (Lour.) Rupr.) were investigated under controlled and standardized conditions using 20 peats from different countries and decomposition degrees. As control, a commercially available growing media for propagation was used. In the peats, some chemical and physical properties as well as CO2-evolution were determined. Differences in germination between the substrates appeared only in the early stage but not at the end. After 21 days, only seven peats had lesser shoot growth compared to the control, while root growth was reduced for 16 out of 20 peats up to 70 %. Apart from P in plants growing on the peat with worst root growth, N-, P-, and K-concentration in the dry matter of shoots was not smaller compared to the control; partly N- and K-concentrations were higher. It turned out that none of the usually analyzed chemical and physical parameters could explain root and shoot growth satisfactorily. Instead, the CO2-evolution from the microbial activity in the peats in combination with air volumes was a better indicator for the root growth of the seedlings, though not for all peats. Reasons and consequences are discussed.
24126111|The aim of this study was to examine the effect of 50, 100, 150 and 200 (mol m-2 s-1 photon flux densities (PFD), supplied daily, every second, third or fourth day, on growth and flowering of pot roses, Kalanchoe blossfeldiana and Begonia  hiemalis. The 16 different light treatments gave photosynthetic active radiation (PAR) ranging from a mean of 0.9 to 14.4 mol m-2 day-1. Increasing the PFD from the lowest to the highest level or increasing the lighting frequency from every fourth day to every day gradually reduced the time until flowering in all three species. Plant dry weight and mean growth rate per day were increased when the PFD was increased from 50 to 150 mol m-2 s-1, while a further increase to 200 mol m-2 s-1 had no effect irrespective of lighting frequency. The mean light utilization, defined as dry weight produced per plant per mol m-2 day-1, was increased by decreasing the PFD or lighting frequency. It was concluded that low daily PAR during 13 days could not be compensated for by high PAR during the other days. In order to obtain good plant growth, a sufficient level of PAR must be applied daily. Ziel dieser Untersuchung war, die Wirkung einer Photonenflussdichte (PFD) von 50, 100, 150 und 200 (mol m-2 s-1, die tglich bzw. jeden zweiten, dritten oder vierten Tag verabreicht wurde, auf das Wachstum und die Blte von Topfrosen, Kalanchoe blossfeldiana und Begonia  hiemalis zu prfen. Die 16 unterschiedlichen Lichtbehandlungen erbrachten im Mittel 0.9 bis 14.4 mol m-2 day-1 photosynthetisch aktive Bestrahlung (PAR). Die Erhhung der PFD vom geringsten zum hchsten Wert oder der Belichtungshufigkeit von jeden vierten Tage auf tglich, reduzierten die Dauer bis zur Blte bei allen drei Arten. Das Trockengewicht und die durchschnittliche Wachstumsrate stiegen an, wenn die PFD von 50 auf 150 mol m-2 s-1 erhht wurde; allerdings blieb eine weiter Erhhung auf 200 mol m-2 s-1, unabhngig von der Belichtungshufigkeit, ohne Wirkung. Die mittlere Lichtverwertung, definiert als gebildetes Trockengewicht pro Pflanze und mol m-2 day-1, erhhte sich mit abnehmender PFD oder Belichtungshufigkeit. Daraus kann gefolgert werden, dass geringe tgliche PAR whrend 13 Tagen, nicht durch hohe PAR whrend der brigen Tage kompensiert werden kann. Um gutes Pflanzenwachstum zu erzielen, muss tglich eine ausreichende PAR verabreicht werden.
24126815|In this study, Phalaenopsis 'Mukalla' and 'Malaga' were grown in growth chambers at low irradiance (LI): 50 mol m-2 s-1, moderate irradiance (MI): 125 mol m-2 s-1 and high irradiance (HI): 200 mol m-2 s-1 for 16 h daily (8 h darkness) at constant high temperatures (28 C) during the vegetative growth phase. The aim was to study growth rate and carbohydrate levels of vegetative plants and verify if the irradiance during vegetative growth phase can cause after-effects on the reproductive growth of Phalaenopsis. Here we show that the growth rate was significantly increased and the 6th leaf appeared 6-7 weeks earlier under MI and HI compared to LI in 'Malaga' and 'Mukalla'. Due to the faster leaf appearance rate the total production time was reduced by 50 days. An increased content of soluble carbohydrates (sucrose, glucose and fructose) in vegetative source leaves was measured in 'Malaga' with increased irradiance but 'Mukalla' contained similar levels of carbohydrates regardless of the irradiance. At the 6th leaf stage the plants were transferred to cooling for flower initiation (18 C) and finishing phase (21 C) until flowering to study the plants ability to produce multiple inflorescences, differences in inflorescence development and morphology. 'Mukalla', which often produces multiple inflorescences, developed similar number of flower stems irrespective of the irradiance during vegetative growth and negligible after-effects were found on time from cooling to visible inflorescence. 'Malaga', which has difficulty producing multiple inflorescences, initiated fewer flower stems when the vegetative growth phase was performed under HI compared to LI or MI. 'Malaga' also developed shorter and thinner inflorescence with fewer branches and flowers when grown under LI during vegetative growth phase compared to MI and HI. A positive relationship was found between the carbohydrate content in source leaves at the start of cooling and time to visible inflorescence (VI) in 'Malaga' but no such effects were detected in 'Mukalla'. In conclusion, by increasing the irradiance from 50 mol m-2 s-1 to 125 mol m-2 s-1 during the vegetative growth phase the total production time was reduced extensively mainly by reducing the vegetative growth phase. The irradiance during vegetative growth phase can induce after-effects on the number of inflorescences per plant, time from cooling to VI, and on inflorescence morphology but the effect was hybrid dependent.
24126512|We determined the critical nitrogen (N) level in fieldgrown Curcuma alismatifolia Gagnep. by applying N at a rate of 3.75, 7.5, 15, 30, and 60 g N plant-1 as urea. Plant growth and N critical levels were determined 105 d after planting (flowering stage). To establish critical N levels in plant tissue, the relationship between rhizome yield and the N concentrations in the first fully expanded leaf from the bottom of 1st order shoots as investigated. The rate of N application had a significant effect on growth, plant dry weight, leaf N concentrations, and leaf chlorophyll content. Leaf N concentrations were similar for all treatments up to 30 g N plant-1, but increased when N was applied at 60 g N plant-1. Rhizome yields increased with increasing leaf N up to about 11.5 % N, but were relatively constant at a higher leaf N. The critical leaf N level response to 90 % of the maximum yield was 1.51 %. Most N concentrations in the various tissues increased with increasing N supply. The method for determining critical N levels provides an accurate description of the relationship between leaf N and rhizome yield and may be used by growers to predict the N requirement of Curcuma plants.
24126171|Nerium oleander seedlings were irrigated with untreated locally available water and 70 mM salt water in greenhouse conditions to study the effect of the drench application of 30 mg paclobutrazol (PBZ) per plant on the salt stress response. PBZ improved the development of oleander in the saline irrigation condition by reducing leaf salt symptoms, reducing defoliation and limiting, in relative terms, the reduction of root dry weight and leaf area that normally results from salinity. However, the retardant effects of salinity and PBZ on development were additive, and the joint application produced a substantial reduction in plant development. Although salinity reduced the relative chlorophyll content of leaves, PBZ maintained it in the same conditions. PBZ application reduced the Na+ content in stem and roots, and CP content in leaves, stem, and roots. In the saline treatment, the salt content of the leaching water increased when plants were treated with PBZ, because it reduced the availability of saline ions in the medium. These findings suggest that PBZ reduced saline stress symptoms in stressed oleander plants by reducing the uptake and accumulation of harmful Na+ and Cl- ions by plant tissues. Salinity reduced both the relative water content and water potential, but maintained turgor potential in PBZ-treated and non-treated plants as a consequence of osmotic adjustment. In saline conditions, PBZ also promoted a process of osmotic adjustment, probably through the accumulation of organic osmotic compounds. Nerium oleander Smlinge wurden entweder mit unbehandeltem, lokal verfugbarem Wasser oder mit 70 mM Salzwasser unter Gewchshausbedingungen bewssert, um den Effekt einer Tropfbewsserung mit 30 mg Paclobutrazol (PBZ) pro Pflanze auf die Salzstressreaktion zu untersuchen. PBZ verbesserte die Entwicklung von Oleander unter Salzwasserbedingungen durch eine Verminderung der Salzsymptome an Blttern, einer Reduktion des Laubverlusts sowie eine relative Begrenzung der Verminderung des Wurzeltrockengewichts und der Blattflche, welche normalerweise bei hohem Salzgehalt auftritt. Dennoch wirkten die Salz- und PBZ bedingten Hemmungseffekte additiv, so dass insgesamt eine betrchtliche Reduktion der Pflanzenentwicklung resultierte. Obwohl der erhhte Salzgehalt den relativen Chlorophyllgehalt der Bltter herabsetzte, wurde dieser durch die PBZ-Behandlung auf gleichem Niveau gehalten. Die PBZ-Behandlung reduzierte den Na+-Gehalt in Stamm und Wurzeln und den Cl-Gehalt in Blttern, Stamm und Wurzeln. Im Falle der Salzbewsserung erhhte sich der Salzgehalt des Drnagewassers in PBZ behandelten Pflanzen auf Grund einer Herabsetzung der Ionenverfgbarkeit im Medium. Unsere Beobachtungen deuten darauf hin, dass PBZ die Salzstresssymptome in gestressten Oleanderpflanzen durch eine Reduktion der Aufnahme und Akkumulation von schdigenden Na+ und Cl- Ionen durch das Pflanzengewebe vermindert. Der erhhte Salzgehalt reduzierte sowohl den relativen Wassergehalt als auch das Wasserpotential, whrend das Turgorpotential in PBZ behandelten und -unbehandelten Pflanzen als Folge eines osmotischen Ausgleichs konstant blieb. Unter Salzwasserbedingungen frderte PBZ auch den Prozess des osmotischen Ausgleichs, mglicherweise durch die Akkumulation von organischen osmotischen Bestandteilen.
24126226|Sampling strategies were evaluated to select for a primary core collection of peach (Prunus persica (L.) Batsch.) that would be the representative of the base collection of peach cultivars at the Beijing's National Peach Germplasm Resources Repository. The optimal sampling strategy was established based on the coverage of morphological and agronomic characters in 18 taxonomic groups. In order to determine the most representative core collection, we used a simulation approach to identify the optimal sampling scheme. Nine entire sampling ratios from 10 % to 90 % were tested. The sampling scheme was conducted at two levels, first to divide the collection into biologically relevant groups and then to determine the appropriate core selections within groups. The results indicated that 10 % was the appropriate entire sampling ratio from the base collection. The optimal sampling scheme was to divide all the accessions into different variety groups, and then determine the sampling proportion within groups based on its genetic diversity (G) using a random sampling method. Using this sampling strategy, a primary core collection with 56 accessions was selected from a base collection of 558 accessions of different peach cultivars. The primary core collection represented 99.49 % of the ratio of phenotype retained (RPR) of the base collection, and its index of genetic diversity (I) was 0.63, which was significantly higher than 0.59 of the base collection. The evaluation results indicated that the primary core collection was able to represent the initial germplasm collection in genetic diversity and heterogeneity.
24126212|Prohexadione-Ca enables vegetative growth in pome fruits to be controlled. Benefits for the growers consist in reduced needs for summer and dormant pruning and improved efficiency of crop protection. Fruit yield and/or fruit quality are, as a general trend, slightly increased. Most likely, this is the result of modified source-sink relations and increased light intensities in central parts of large trees. Providing that good horticultural practice is exercised, constant and uniform fruit production can, long-term, be expected. However, care has to be taken to avoid too high dosages particularly in pear trees, since this may lead to reductions in return bloom. Mit Prohexadion-Ca kann bei Kernobst das vegetative Wachstum kontrolliert werden. Die Vorteile fr die Anwender bestehen in einem reduzierten Aufwand fr Sommer- und Winterschnitt sowie in einer gesteigerten Effizienz von Pflanzenschutzmanahmen. Fruchtertrag und -qualitt werden im Trend gefrdert. Dies ist wahrscheinlich auf vernderte Source-Sink-Verhltnisse sowie auf eine erhhte Lichtintensitt im Inneren grokroniger Bume zurck zu fhren. Bei guter gartenbaulicher Praxis kann langfristig ein konstanter und gleichmiger Fruchtertrag erwartet werden. Insbesondere bei Birnen ist jedoch eine zu hohe Dosis an Wirkstoff zu vermeiden, da es sonst zu einer Reduzierung der Blhintensitt im Folgejahr kommen kann.
24126227|The genetic variation among sports and clones of Vitis vinifera cv. 'Pinot' cultivars ('Pinot noir', 'Pinot gris', and 'Pinot blanc') was analysed utilizing 375 AFLP-PCR markers. Thirty two 'Pinot' genotypes of differing origin, age and phenotype were analysed to assay genetic variation among 'Pinot' clones and to look after a clonal "genetic structure" present within the selections. Results showed that the degree of genetic similarity within the majority of clones was high (99 %), though a minor group of 'Pinot noir' clones and one 'Pinot gris' clone exhibited higher variation up to 5 %. The genetic variation as indicated in molecular diversity indices were highest in the 'Pinot noir' group (0,03620,0192), decreased in the 'Pinot gris' group (0,02300,0145) and was lowest in the 'Pinot blanc' group (0,00380,0031). No colour-type clustering of 'Pinot' clones or a berry colour linked marker could be assessed. Unique markers serving as pre-requisite to individually fingerprint clones were found in all 'Pinot' cultivars.
24126493|The occurrence, geographical distribution and rate of incidence of Grapevine fanleaf virus (GFLV) were surveyed in 44 vineyards and nurseries in different regions of Iran. GFLV infection was confirmed by mechanical transmission onto herbaceous hosts, DAS-ELISA and IC-RT-PCR. Two thermal conditions, as well as meristem culture were used to produce virus-free material. Results confirmed the presence of GFLV in Bavanat, Shiraz, Jahrom, Maymand, Urmia, Karaj and Naghadeh. Both sanitation protocols significantly reduce the level of GFLV infection, however, a combination of meristem culture and thermotherapy produced 100 % virus-free material from the cultivars 'Bidaneh Sefid' and 'Shahroodi'.
24126245|The reduction of labour costs as well as the improvement of the work situation are future goals for the horticultural sector. Hence it is necessary to objectively evaluate existing and new work systems, but so far an appropriate method regarding economic and ergonomie criteria is lacking. The study of human motions seems promising. The necessary effort concerning time and motion to fulfil a work task can be described by motion data, and in consequence a 3-D-motion analysis system in combination with an analysing software is used to gain complex information about different work processes. The digital recording of the motion data allows a large sample size and hence is an excellent basis for statistics. The wide range of descriptive parameters gained in one experiment allows a better data interpretation compared to existing methods for rationalization or ergonomie evaluation. Two different experimental settings are described to point out the wide range of application and the combined consideration of ergonomie and economic measures. In experiment 1 the influence of varying machine parameters on human performance is investigated. The determined variation within the performance data is explained by further interpretation of the motion data. Similar to the idea of the REFA performance rate, inter-personal variation plays an important role for the comparison of data and is explained by descriptive parameters like speed of movement, movement efficiency or targeted precision. In experiment 2 the emphasis is put on ergonomics, evaluating an unusual seated work place that differs from ordinary table-stool-systems. Due to the unusual setting there exist no applicable ergonomie workplace recommendations and in consequence new indicators have to be defined. Quantitative differences between the two seat constructions are presented and allow a final judgment.
24126522|The objective of this study was to evaluate the genetic diversity and relationships among 6 new improved lines, one spring landrace and 6 varieties of winter chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.). To achieve this, 16 polymorphic simple sequence repeats (SSRs) were used in the DNA analysis. A total of 554 bands were generated with an average of 2.16 detectable bands/primer/genotype. The within-genotype genetic dissimilarity coefficient ranged from 13.0 to 77.7. Cluster analysis indicated that most genotypes could be clustered into four groups according to their geographic origin, selection objectives or pedigree. Moreover, morphological analyses generated clusters similar to those generated by molecular studies. Indeed, a comparison of morphological and molecular data using the Mantel test showed a highly significant correlation (r = 0.554, P < 10-5), indicating that SSR primers used in this study likely cover a vast area of the chickpea genome or might flank chromosome regions that control quantitative traits or resistance to Ascochyta blight or wilt. This also means that different combinations of alleles might reproduce similar morphological traits. In this sense, the two methods showed a low degree of variation among analysed genotypes, indicating the narrow genetic base of Tunisian chickpea germplasm. It also showed that the Tunisian chickpea collection should be increased by increasing diversity by importing new genotypes or by inducing mutations which could be used for future breeding programs.
24126447|Shoot and fruit growths were investigated in two peach cultivars, a medium maturing ('Big Top') and an early maturing ('Alexandra'). Experiments were achieved on fruit-bearing shoots (FBS) isolated from the tree by girdling, thinned to one or three fruits and with a steady number of shoots. This shoot growth was either maintained free or stopped by removing their apical bud. The girdled FBS were located on trees subjected to two thinning ('Big Top') and three pruning ('Alexandra') treatments. On the girdled FBS, increasing the number of fruits, on the one hand, and stopping shoots growth, on the other hand, stimulated shoot and fruit growths, respectively. These results show that fruit growth does not limit shoot growth but at the opposite contributes to improve it, and that available assimilates are preferentially oriented to shoot growth over fruit growth. By contrast, on the whole tree, shoot growth was found limited under a higher fruit load. A higher fruit load also limited fruit growth and soluble solids content on the whole tree, in similar proportions than those of the girdled FBS. Compared to light pruning, severe pruning induced higher shoot and fruit growths on the whole tree and on the girdled FBS. Fruit growth and quality at maturity are shown highly dependant on the leaf-to-fruit ratio which vary with thinning and pruning intensities.
24126379|The occurrence of position effects, i.e. topophysis, was tested for two new clones (29 and 112) of Rotheca myricoides (Hochst.) Steane & Mabb. 'Ugandensis' (syn. Clerodendrum ugandense Prain). The position from which cuttings are taken from of the mother plant can affect the later vegetative and generative development of the plants, e.g. partly reduce their extensive longitudinal growth. Three different kinds of cuttings were used during propagation in two sets of experiments: tip cuttings of vegetative branches, stem cuttings of vegetative branches and stem cuttings of generative branches. Their height, branching and flowering development was assessed in periodic intervals over a period of four months. Compared to 112, clone 29 displayed a significantly reduced longitudinal growth and a significantly better rate of branching was displayed. Furthermore, the results for the vegetative tip cuttings of both clones showed a significant decrease in height (610 cm) compared to the stem cuttings from vegetative branches combined with an increase in branching (12.5 branches) compared to both other types of cuttings. Apart from choosing the appropriate clone, using vegetative tip cuttings can therefore be a partly effective method to reduce the extensive height and improve the branching during commercial production of Rotheca myricoides 'Ugandensis'. With regard to flowering, no significant differences between the two clones and the three types of cuttings were found in the statistical analysis.
24126797|Reducing mowing without compromising quality are the main goals of turf managers. Applications of the trinexapac-ethyl (TE) [4-(cyclopropyl--hydroxym-ethylene)-3,5-dioxocyclohexane carboxylic acid ethyl-ester] can restrict leaf growth and hence reduce clipping production of warm-season turfgrass species. The objective was to: study the effects of seasonal TE application on vertical growth suppression and clipping production of warm-season turfgrass species: Cynodon dactylon (L.) Pers., Buchlo dactyloides Engelm., Zoysia japonica Steudel, Paspalum notatum (Flgge), Paspalum vaginatum Swartz, and Eremochloa ophiurioides (Munro) Hack in the Mediterranean region. Applications of TE to the nineteen seeded-type cultivars were made to fully established turf plots at a 0.38 kg active ingredient (a.i.) ha-1 rate in summer or fall. Application schedule included a single application, followed by zero or one sequential application at 4-wk. Overall, single TE treatment in summer suppressed the vertical growth up to 8-wk and reduced the clipping production up to 72 %. The sequential summer application extended the suppression up to 5-wk. The mean clipping yield were 21 and 39 % lower than the control throughout the 15-week in summer; and 65 and 67 % lower in fall with single and sequential TE applications, respectively. Results support the use of sequential application of TE for extended growth suppression in summer. Suppressing the growth and accelerating dormancy of warm-season turfgrasses, the fall TE application may aid in transition to over-seeded cool-season grasses.
24126165|Thirteen commercially available substrates of different composition are described concerning particle density, total pore space, water as well as air capacity, available water, particle size distribution. Particle density, total pore space and water and air capacity were determined according to DIN EN 13039 and 13041 (2000), available water according to Gabriels and VERDONCK (1992). Particle size distribution was carried out according to RHP (Wever and VRHAGEN 1995). Particle densities were between 1,69 and 2,19 [kg L-1] depending on the composition. Three from thirteen substrates had an air capacity smaller than 10% [v/v], three higher than 15% [v/v], seven ranged between 10 and 15 % [v/v]. The amount of available water was smaller than 30 % [v/v] for one substrate, between 35 and 40 % [v/v] for four substrates and between 40 and 48 % [v/v] for eight substrates. Most particles (6393 %) occurred in the fractions <4,0 mm. Within this fraction in most cases most particles were smaller than 1 mm. There is a trend of decreasing air capacity with increasing amount of available water, but r2 is very small (0,48). The same is true for the correlation between particles <1 mm and air capacity (r2=0,46). Reasons for this are discussed. Fr 13 im Handel erhltliche Kultursubstrate mit unterschiedlicher Zusammensetzung wurden Partikeldichte, Gesamtporenvolumen, Wasserund Luftkapazitt, verfgbares Wasser und die Korngrenverteilung ermittelt. Partikeldichte, Gesamtporenvolumen, Wasser- und Luftkapazitt wurden nach DIN EN 13039 bzw. 13041 (2000), das verfgbare Wasser nach Gabriels und Verdonck (1992) bestimmt. Die Korngrenverteilung wurde nach der Methode der RHP (Wever and Verhagen 1995) gemessen. Die Partikeldichten lagen  in Abhngigkeit von der Zusammensetzung der Substrate  zwischen 1,69 und 2,19 [kg L-1]. Drei der 13 Substrate wiesen eine Luftkapazitt unter 10% [v/v] auf, fr drei Substrate lag sie ber 15 % [v/v], fr sieben Substrate zwischen 10 und 15 % [v/v]. Ein Substrat hatte weniger als 30 % [v/v] verfgbares Wasser, fr vier Substrate lag der Wert zwischen 35 und 40 % [v/v], fr acht Substrate zwischen 40 und 48 % [v/v]. Die meisten Partikel (6393 %) kamen in dem Korngrenbereich <4 mm vor. Innerhalb dieser Fraktion lag bei den meisten Substraten der grte Anteil bei einem Korndurchmesser <1 mm. Die Luftkapazitt nimmt mit steigendem Anteil an verfgbarem Wasser tendenziell ab, doch das Bestimmtheitsma ist sehr klein (r2=0,48). Das trifft auch fr den Zusammenhang zwischen Luftkapazitt und Anteil an Partikeln <1 mm zu (r2=0,46). Grnde dafr werden diskutiert.
24126676|In horticultural pot plant production with ebb/flood irrigation, denitrification occurrs following irrigation events. It was the aim of the study to identify the main layers of denitrifying activity in the potting medium of ornamental plants. Thus, redox potential was measured at the same time as denitrification N emissions from pots of Pelargonium zonale grown in a peat/coir medium. Denitrification was measured using the acetylene inhibition technique. To investigate the redox potential, in each pot, three electrodes were positioned at 1, 3 and 5 cm distance from the bottom, respectively. After flood irrigation, N emissions increased at the same time as some electrodes per pot indicated a reduction of the redox potential. All electrodes reflecting a decrease in redox potential were positioned close to the pot bottom, i.e. in the peat layer with the highest water content after flood irrigation. However, not all electrodes in the lowest substrate layer showed a decrease in redox potential. It is suggested that this might be related to uneven availability of easily decomposable carbohydrates. It was concluded that in the applied cultivation system transient oxygen deficiency and denitrification occurred only in the substrate layer at the pot bottom.
24126668|Spring frost often reduces the yield because of damaged flowers or flower parts. The contents of primary metabolites in both the flowers (whole flower) that were damaged by frost and the undamaged flowers (control) were investigated in the apple cultivar 'Idared' and the pear cultivar 'Passe crassane'. The contents of carbohydrates (glucose, fructose, sucrose and sorbitol) and organic acids (malic, citric, shikimic and fumaric) in flowers were determined by High Performance Liquid Chromatography. The results showed higher contents of glucose, fructose, sucrose, sorbitol and total sugars in the flowers, which were damaged by frost (completely or the vital part of the flower  ovary). This was the case in apple flowers as well as in pear flowers. The glucose/fructose ratio remained unchanged whether or not the flowers were damaged by frost. The content of individual and total organic acids in pear flowers was not influenced by flower frost.
24126135|The influence of seed germination conditions on the regenerative ability has not been investigated. The present study shows that the germination rate itself is affected significantly by light level and salt concentration in the germination medium. An increase in salt concentration resulted in reduced germination percentage. High light in combination with either 0 % or low levels of salts produced a significantly higher number of germinated seedlings reaching up to 89 %. The morphology of seedlings and the subsequent regenerative ability of hypocotyl and cotyledon expiants were also influenced by those conditions. High light in combination with 0 % or low salt concentrations provided during germination produced significantly higher numbers of adventitious shoots on hypocotyls when compared to all other treatments. This is the first report on the influence of seed germination conditions on the regenerative ability of hypocotyl or cotyledon expiants. Der Einfluss der Keimbedingungen auf die Regenerationsfhigkeit von Smlingsexplantaten wurde bisher noch nicht untersucht. Die vorliegende Arbeit zeigt, dass die Keimrate signifikant durch die Belichtungsstrke und die Salzkonzentration des Keimmediums beeinflusst wird. Ein hherer Salzgehalt im Nhrmedium reduzierte die Keimrate. Hohe Lichtintensitten in Kombination mit geringen Mengen an Nhrstoffen oder ganz ohne Salze fhrten zu signifikant hheren Keimraten (bis zu 89 %). Die Keimbedingungen beeinflussten auch die Morphologie der Smlinge und die Regenerationsfhigkeit aus Hypokotyl- und Kotyledonenexplantaten. Hohe Lichtintensitten und geringe Salzgehalte oder gnzlich fehlende Salze fhrten verglichen mit allen anderen Varianten zu signifikant hheren Mengen an Adventivsprossen bei Hypokotylexplantaten. Diese Untersuchungen sind die ersten, die einen Einfluss der Keimbedingungen auf die Regenerationsfhigkeit von Hypokotyl- oder Kotyledonenexplantaten nachweisen.
24126514|Grape is an important fruit crop with various consumptions. Classical methods of identification, based on ampelographic characterization, are not always the most accurate way due to instability of morphological characteristics under the influence of the internal and external environments. The superiority of molecular markers over ampelometry for the characterization of grape genotypes is their capability to identify the diversity at genomic level free of environmental factors. Genetic variation of 15 grape genotypes (including 7 Khorasan native grape genotypes and 8 imported genotypes from Turkmenistan) were studied based on RAPD and ISSR markers. PCR amplification of DNA by using 7 primers for RAPD analysis produced 59 bands while the same number of primers used for ISSR analysis resulted in 58 bands. "Diese bands could be scored in all genotypes. The average number of polymorphic bands per RAPD and ISSR primers was 8.4 and 8.2, respectively. The RAPD and ISSR data were combined for UPGMA cluster analysis. Dendrogram based on genetic distance (UPGMA) indicated segregation of the 15 grape genotypes into two main clusters. Turkmen genotypes formed cluster I and native Khorasan genotypes grouped in cluster II. Based on Jaccard's similarity coefficient, the highest similarity observed between the Turkmen 6 and Turkmen 8 and lowest similarity observed between Turkmen 3 and Sahebi e Rezaieh.
24126785|In attempts to produce the earliest yields of spring melons, muskmelon fields are transplanted in late winter before the last frost date. Seedlings may then be repeatedly exposed to temperatures cycling between almost freezing and optimal temperatures for weeks until the weather stabilizes. To simulate this potential cold stress possible in the field, 'Athena' Cucumis melo L. (Reticulatus Group) muskmelon seedlings were subjected to 21 C in a walk-in cooler then to 295 C in a greenhouse before field transplanting. In 1997, the durations of cold exposure were 3,6, and 9 hours which were repeated (frequency) for 1, 3, 6, and 9 days before transplanting. In 1998, duration levels were the same as in 1997 but frequencies were 3, 6, and 9 days. In both years, cold stress duration interacted with frequency, significantly reducing almost all seedling growth characteristics of muskmelon, indicating that these two stress factors are not acting independently and that they need to be considered together. Muskmelon flowering and vining were delayed significantly by increasing cold stress duration and frequency in both years but fruit set was delayed only in 1998. Muskmelon yields decreased with increasing cold stress frequency in both years but not with cold stress duration indicating that frequency was the driving factor behind the yield reduction. Therefore, muskmelon plants should not be planted early in the season without protective tunnels if there is a chance of repeated low temperature exposure. Um im Frhjahr die ersten Netzmelonen ernten zu knnen, werden die Smlinge im Sptwinter vor den letzten Frsten gepflanzt. Die Bedingungen, denen sie dann ber Wochen bis zur Wetterstabilisierung ausgesetzt sind, knnen wiederholt zwischen fast Gefrieren und Optimaltemperatur wechseln. Zur Simulation dieses potentiellen Kltestresses wurden Netzmelonen-smlinge Cucumis melo L. (Reticulatus Group) der Sorte 'Athena' in Khlrumen bei 21 C und anschlieend im Gewchshaus bei 295 C kultiviert, bevor sie auf dem Feld ausgepflanzt wurden. Im Jahr 1997 betrug die Kltedauer 3, 6 oder 9 Stunden und wurde 1, 3, 6 bzw. 9 Tage lang wiederholt. 1998 waren die Abstufungen der Kltedauer wie 1997, allerdings wurden sie 3, 6 bzw. 9 Tage wiederholt. In beiden Jahren traten Interaktionen zwischen Dauer und Wiederholungshufigkeit der Kltestressbehandlungen auf, die beinahe alle erfassten Wachstumsparameter negativ beeinflussten. Diese Ergebnisse zeigen, dass die beiden Stressfaktoren nicht unabhngig voneinander wirken und deshalb gemeinsam beurteilt werden mssen. In beiden Jahren fhrte die Zunahme von Kltestressdauer und -hufigkeit zu einer signifikanten Verzgerung der Blten- und Rankenbildung, doch zog dies nur 1998 einen verzgerten Fruchtansatz nach sich. Mit zunehmender Kltestresshufigkeit nahm die Erntemenge in beiden Jahren ab. Die Variation der Kltedauer zeigte keine entsprechende Wirkung. Das weist daraufhin, dass die Kltestresshufigkeit die Ursache fr die Mengenreduktion darstellt. Netzmelonen sollten deshalb frh in der Saison, wenn noch die Mglichkeit des wiederholten Auftretens von niedrigen Temperaturen besteht, nicht ohne schtzenden Folientunnel gepflanzt werden.
24126862|Pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) is one of the most important vegetables cultivated worldwide. Many pests and pathogens cause economic yield losses in pepper. Potato virus Y (PVY), Tomato spotted wilt virus (TSWV) and Pepper mild mottle virus (PMMoV) are considered among the most destructive viruses affecting pepper in the world. Because chemical treatments have limited success for managing PVY, TSWV and PMMoV, resistant varieties are considered to be the most effective means of controlling these viruses. In this study, resistance genes to these viruses were successfully transferred to the superior sweet Charleston pepper line 'Y-CAR' using molecular markers and biological assays. As a result, a new line which is resistant to PVY, TSWV and PMMoV was developed. The results also showed the applicability of a pyramiding strategy lor breeding multiple virus resistance in pepper.
24134267|Bioassays with tomato and lettuce seeds and three plant experiments with marigold (Tagetes erecta L.) 'Inca Gold' were conducted in the laboratory and greenhouse, respectively, in order to investigate possibilities of determining and mitigating the effects of Phytotoxins in pine tree substrate (PTS). PTS is produced by grinding loblolly pine tree (Pinus taeda L.) logs, and using as horticultural growing substrate. PTS extracts obtained with cold and hot water reduced the germination rate and radicle growth of tomato and lettuce. After the washing, an improvement was monitored for radicle length of both species. The germination index supported the data of radicle length showing a better performance after the substrate washing. Radicle growth of tomato in extracts from PTS used in a plant growth experiment was improved after leaching PTS six times. The performance of marigold plants was similar to bioassays with tomatoes and lettuce. Marigold growth was improved by pretreatments of PTS. Some of these pretreatments could be recommended for use in the manufacturing process for PTS or from growers before planting. However, the best results were shown in a commercial peat-lite substrate.
24126431|The yield of strawberry (Fragaria  ananassa Duch.) is dependent on the number of inflorescences initiated in the apical meristems of the main and branch crowns. Short-day conditions induce crown formation from the axillary buds of the main crown while long-day conditions promote runner formation. The fate of axillary buds is also affected by the plant hormone gibberellin (GA). Exogenously applied GA enhances runner formation in short daylength. Our aim was to test whether the cropping potential of strawberry could be increased by the GA biosynthesis inhibitor, prohexadione-calcium (ProCa), under northern long-day conditions. Six experiments at five different locations were carried out with 'Polka' or 'Honeoye' using ProCa concentrations of 100 and 200 mg l-1. ProCa reduced runner formation in five experiments, and increased crown branching in three experiments. Furthermore, the 200 mg l-1 ProCa treatment increased the number of inflorescences and berry yield by 650 % and 753 %, respectively. No negative effects on development or yield were observed. In conclusion, ProCa treatment of strawberry during the planting year has the potential to reduce runner development and enhance berry yield in northern long-day conditions.
24126430|Investigations of the influence of early cropping on productivity and vegetative development of newly established 'Golden Delicious'/M.9 trees were conducted during three years after planting with the aim of determining the subsequent crop load dynamics according to different initial productivity of young trees. On the basis of the rate of natural fruit drop in the second growing year, three experimental groups were established: trees with intensive fruitlet natural June drop (group A) were further adjusted to 5 fruit tree-1; medium fruitlet drop trees (group B) adjusted to 15 fruit tree-1; and low fruitlet drop trees (group C) which were hand thinned to 25 fruit tree-1. In the third growing year, the crop load was artificially thinned to 40, 60 or 80 fruit per tree. Trees of group A showed strong return bloom in the third growing year while weak flowering and low yield was observed in the fourth growing year (1128 fruit tree-1). In contrast to group A, trees of group C presented a constantly increasing yield tendency with no biennial bearing pattern: 66 flower clusters in the third growing year which were hand adjusted to 40, 60 or 80 fruit tree-1 gave nice return bloom and yield in the fourth growing year (63, 77 or 72 fruit tree-1). Trees of group B adjusted to 40 or 60 fruit tree-1 in the third growing season responded with medium return bloom and, consequently, appropriate yield in the fourth growing year, while 80 fruit tree-1 adjustments or, on non-thinned trees, decreasing yield and biennial bearing tendency was observed. Trunk circumference increase on trees with higher crop load was smaller for all three bearing groups and was in the strongest negative correlation in the second year after planting the orchard.
24126670|The objective of present study was to determine difference in ion and MDA (malondialdehyde) content of tolerant and sensitive genotypes calli grown under salinity condition. For this purpose, two tolerant and two sensitive local Turkish eggplant varieties were used. After 8 days of being cultured, callus growth of all genotypes showed a decrease in salted medium as compared to control medium. When grown in salted medium, sensitive lines produced less callus, accumulated lower K and Ca but higher Na and CI than tolerant lines. Consequently, tolerant genotypes had higher K/Na and lower Na/Ca ratios than sensitive genotypes. K/Na and Na/Ca ratios were used as parameters determining salinity tolerance in eggplant. The magnitude of lipid damage, as measured by MDA, was lower in the tolerant genotypes. MDA content of tolerant genotypes was two fold less than those of sensitive genotypes in NaCl treatment medium. MDA content of calli of the four eggplant varieties investigated in this study were also found as a significant indicator determining salt tolerant. The present results demonstrated that the response of cultured calli of eggplant to salt stress was clearly genotype specific.
24126350|Mother plants were cultivated under two separate sets of conditions to establish the impact of exposure to different levels of light intensity on the storage and rooting of Plectranthus coleoides cuttings. One set of mother plants was cultivated in a climate chamber with a photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD) of 1000 mol m-2 s-1 (Halogen HQI) for 12 h a day at a temperature of 20 C simulating southern latitudes. The other set was exposed to climatic conditions in a greenhouse with an average PPFD of 84 mol m-2 s-1 per average daylength of 10.3 h and an average temperature of 16.6 C simulating Central European conditions. Then, all cuttings were wrapped in polyethylene foil, stored for periods of 3,4, 5,6,7 or 14 d at temperatures of 1,5 or 12 C. For rhizogenese, they were inserted into a propagation substrate (white peat, perlite) and cultivated in the greenhouse at an average temperature of 20 C and an average PPFD of 88 mol m-2 s-1. Damage to shoots was influenced by preharvest light conditions. Cuttings from the climate chamber (1000 mol m-2 s-1) were particularly susceptible to a storage temperature of 5C, where they developed damaged shoots in fairly, large numbers, whereas cuttings produced in the greenhouse (84 mol m-2 s-1) were more susceptible to such damage at a storage temperature of 12 C. Cuttings from both treatments did not differ in regards to rooting percentage when they were stored at 5 or 12 C. Storage at 1 C generally resulted in a large number of decayed cuttings during the rooting period, regardless of the preharvest conditions. The experiments demonstrated that exposure to high PPFD during the cultivation of stock plants and the cutting production stage resulted in a pronounced preference of the cuttings for certain storage temperatures. Plectranthus cuttings can be easily stored for 7 d without any adverse effect on quality, but the storage and transport temperatures will have to be adapted to the conditions under which the cuttings were produced. Storage and transport temperatures for cuttings produced in southern latitudes under high PPFD should not fall below 10 C, whereas for cuttings produced under central European conditions in the winter and early spring, a storage and transport temperature of 5 C is most suitable. Um den Einfluss unterschiedlicher Lichtangebote auf Lagerung und Bewurzelung von Stecklingen von Plectranthus coleoides zu prfen, wurden Mutterpflanzen unter zwei unterschiedlichen Klimabedingungen kultiviert. Um die Bedingungen in sdlichen Breiten zu simulieren, erfolgte eine Mutterpflanzenkultur in einer Klimakammer mit einer Photonenflussdichte (PPFD) von 1000 mol m-2 s-1 (Halogen HQI) bei einer Tageslnge von 12 h und einer Temperatur von 20 C. Die zweite Mutterpflanzenkultur wurde unter Gewchshausbedingungen (durchschnittliche PPFD 84 mol m-2 s-1, Tageslnge 10,3 h, Temperatur 16,6 C) entsprechend den Bedingungen in Mitteleuropa, kultiviert. Alle Stecklinge wurden in PE-Folie verpackt, bei einer Temperatur von 1,5 bzw. 12 C ber einen Zeitraum von 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 bzw. 14 Tagen gelagert. Nach der Lagerung wurden sie in Vermehrungssubstrat (Weitorf, Perlite) gesteckt und zur Wurzelbildung im Gewchshaus bei 20 C und einer durchschnittlichen PPFD von 88 mol m-2 s-1 kultiviert. Triebspitzenschden traten in Abhngigkeit von den Lichtbedingungen auf. Stecklinge aus der Klimakammer (1000 mol m-2 s-1) reagierten bei einer Lagertemperatur von 5 C mit einem hohen Anteil geschdigter Triebspitzen, whrend bei Stecklingen aus dem Gewchshaus (84 mol m-2 s-1) gleiche Triebspitzenschden nach der Lagerung bei 12 C auftraten. Bei Lagertemperaturen von 5 und 12 C traten keine Unterschiede in der Bewurzelungsrate der Stecklinge beider Standorte auf. Die Lagertemperatur von 1 C fhrte unabhngig von den Kulturbedingungen der Mutterpflanzen zu hohen Ausfllen whrend der Bewurzelung. Durch die Untersuchungen wurde deutlich, dass eine hohe PPFD whrend der Mutterpflanzenhaltung bzw. Stecklingsproduktion zur Modifikation der Optimal-temperatur bei der Stecklingslagerung fhrt. Plectranthus-Stecklinge lassen sich ohne Qualittsverluste 7 Tage lagern, jedoch ist die Lager- und Transporttemperatur in Abhngigkeit vom Produktionsort der Stecklinge zu whlen. Wenn Stecklinge unter hoher PFD an sdlichen Standorten produziert wurden, sollte die Lager- und Transporttemperatur nicht unter 10 C liegen, whrend fr unter mitteleuropischen Bedingungen im Winterhalbjahr produzierte Stecklinge eine Lager- und Transporttemperatur von 5 C optimal ist.
24126225|After four months cold storage, frigo strawberry plants of cvs. 'Honeoye' and 'Sonata' were treated with hot tap water of 42,44,46 or 48 C for 5,10 or 20 min prior to planting in an open plastic polytunnel, and their effects on growth and yield were studied two successive years. From the two years results of marketable yield of class I fruit, treatment of 42 C for maximum 10 min is recommended as the most economic solution.
24127674|Miniature rose plantlets in the flowering stage were photoautotrophically grown on MS (Murashige and Skoog 1962) medium and subsequently exposed to 0 (control), 25, 50 or 100 mM NaCl for 14 d. The Na+ in the leaf tissues of salt stressed plantlets was enriched, resulting in proline accumulation and the degradation of total chlorophyll. Pigment degradation, chlorophyll a fluorescence diminution and net photosynthetic rate (Pn) reduction in miniature rose plantlets exposed to 100 mM NaCl were maximized when compared to the control, especially Pn reduction (77.96 % of control), leading to growth reduction. In contrast, the proline content in the salt stressed plantlets was enriched, indicating salt stress. In plants cultivated in vitro, the flowering percentage and the number of flowers per plantlet declined significantly under both 50 and 100 mM NaCl salt stress. The flowering stage of miniature rose plandets was susceptible to salt stress, the reproductive developmental process being suppressed, which may be an effective indicator for salt tolerance screening in rose genotypes.
24126214|The air permeability and light transmission of 15 screens were evaluated at the Institute of Horticultural and Agricultural Engineering, University of Hannover. The air permeability of the screens was tested by fixing each screen on a frame and placing it on an open end of a wooden box m) c(222 onnected to a wind tunnel with a fan on the other end. From the measured data, the pressure loss coefficient (Fs) of the screen was computed. The light transmission was tested with an "lbricht-sphere", while the mesh size and thread thickness were investigated under a microscope. Insect screens have a well-defined structure that is characterised by the diameter (or width) of the thread (or fibre used), and the dimensions of the pores (Bailey et al. 2003), hence the correlating pressure loss coefficient of the different insect screens was calculated. The tested screens show a clear dependence of air speed on screen loss coefficient and Reynolds number. Moreover, the flow regime depends on the Reynolds number (Re). While porous materials have Reynolds numbers Re < 1, the investigated insect screens had Reynolds numbers 3.4 < Re < 144 at air velocities up to 1.1 m s-1. The screen loss coefficient can only be expected to be constant at Reynolds numbers Re > 200. As expected, the screens with the smallest mesh size (group 1) had the highest-pressure drop, while the opposite was observed for the screens with the biggest mesh size (group 4). However, this was not the case with the screens in the other groups. Therefore, when choosing a screen, it is important to include the open area (porosity), since it contains the thickness of the threads. Screens with a larger open area should be used, because of their better air permeability. However, in order to accurately determine the open area of a screen and thereby calculate the screen's pressure drop from the air speed, the information about the mesh size and thickness of the threads must be correct. The screens with the biggest mesh size had the highest light transmission, but the screens with the smallest mesh size did not have the lowest transmission. Hence light transmission was influenced by other parameters such as the structure of the threads (wool threads) and, of course, contamination of the threads by dirt. Am Institut fr Technik in Gartenbau und Landwirtschaft wurde die Luft- und Lichtdurchlssigkeit von 15 Insektenschutznetzen bewertet. Die Luftdurchlssigkeit wurde mit einer Versuchsanlage untersucht, die aus Ventilator, Durchflussmessstrecke und Holzkasten (222 m) bestand, der an einer Seite offen war. In diese ffnung wurde das jeweilige Netz, das auf einem Rahmen befestigt wurde, geschoben. Aus den ermittelten Ergebnissen wurden die netzspezifischen Druckverlustkoeffizienten (Fs-Werte) errechnet. Die Lichtdurchlssigkeit wurde mit Hilfe einer Ulbricht-Kugel bestimmt. Zustzlich wurden die Maschenweiten und Fadenstrken der Netze unter dem Mikroskop ermittelt. Da Insektenschutznetze eine geordnete Struktur aufweisen, lassen sich mit Anstzen aus der Literatur (Bailey et al. 2003) die Druckverlustkoeffizienten berechnen. Die Strmung durch die Maschen des Netzes hngt entscheidend von der Reynoldszahl ab. Porse Materialien haben Reynoldszahlen < 1. Fr die untersuchten Netze ergeben sich Reynoldszahlen zwischen 3,4 und 144 (Luftstrmungen bis ca. 1 m s-1). In diesem Bereich ist der Druckverlustkoeffizient nicht konstant. Ab Re > 200 kann man mit konstanten Druckverlustkoeffizienten rechnen. Wie erwartet, konnte festgestellt werden, dass die Netze mit den kleinsten Maschenweiten (Gruppe 1) die hchsten Drcke und Druckverlustkoeffizienten aufweisen. Das Gegenteil trifft fr die Netze mit den grten Maschenweiten (Gruppe 4) zu. Bei den Netzen, die zwischen diesen Gruppen liegen, stimmte diese Aussage nur teilweise. Das liegt z. T. daran, dass die Angaben der Hersteller bezglich der Maschenweite nicht genau genug sind und z. B. unterschiedliche Fadenmaterialien im selben Netz (Wollfden) nicht mit angegeben werden. Es erscheint sinnvoll, die offene Flche bei der Auswahl eines Netzes mit einzubeziehen, da dort die Fadenstrke mit eingeht. So sollten Netze mit hheren Werten fr die offene Flche (Porositt) ausgewhlt werden, da diese eine bessere Luftdurchlssigkeit aufweisen. Jedoch mssen fr eine genaue Bestimmung der offenen Flche die Angaben fr die Maschenweite und Fadenstrke exakt sein. Die ist auch die Voraussetzung fr eine korrekte Berechnung des Druckverlustes in Abhngigkeit von der Strmungsgeschwindigkeit. Fr die lichtdurchlssigkeit konnte festgestellt werden, dass die Netze mit den grten Maschenweiten (Gruppe 4) die hchste Lichtdurchlssigkeit aufwiesen, jedoch die Netze mit den kleinsten Maschenweiten (Gruppe 1) nicht die geringste Lichtdurchlssigkeit besaen. So wird die Lichtdurchlssigkeit z. B. durch andere Fadenstrukturen (z. B. Wollfden), und insbesondere durch die Verschmutzung vermindert.
24126310|An efficient protocol for high frequency regeneration and Agrobacterium tumefacies mediated transformation of Broccoli (Brassica oleracea var. italica) has been developed. Hypocotyl and leaf segment explants were transferred on to MS medium supplemented with different concentrations and combinations of IAA (00.57 M) and Kinetin/BAP/Zeatin (8.922.2 M). Hypocotyl explants showed the highest regeneration potential. Maximum number of shoots (16 per explant) were obtained on MS medium supplemented with 0.57 M IAA and 22.2 M BAP. The concentrations of extracellular calcium, nitrate and ammonium nitrogen in the medium had a marked effect on regeneration. The optimal media for maximum shoot proliferation (30 per explant) contained 3 mM CaCl2, 1900 mg l-1 KN03, 825 mg l-1 (NH4)2S04, 22.2 M BAP and 0.57 M IAA. Rhizogenesis from isolated shoots was obtained on B5 medium supplemented with 2.85 M IAA. The high frequency regeneration system served as an excellent tool to establish an efficient transformation method of broccoli. Hypocotyl explants were co-cultivated with the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA 4404, containing a binary vector with the neomycin phosphotransferase (nptii) gene and a -glucuronidase (gus) gene, each under the control of a separate CaMV35S promoter. Primary selection of transformed expiants was performed on high kanamycin (100 mg l-1) containing medium for 10 days and regeneration was achieved on the optimised regeneration medium containing lower concentration (50 mg l-1) of kanamycin. The frequency of transgenic plants was calculated on the basis of GUS activity detected by histochemical X-gluc test. The effect of pre-culture and growth of bacterial culture was studied. Expiants precultured for 2-days prior to inoculation with A. tumefaciens resulted in improved transformation frequency. Bacterial cultures grown to the optical density of 2.0 resulted in the highest transformation rate (60 %). Evidence for integration of nptii gene was obtained by the PCR. All transgenic plants grew normally. The present study demonstrates the improved high frequency regeneration and transformation of B. oleracea var. italica. Es wurde fr Brokkoli (Brassica oleracea var. italica) ein effizientes Protokoll fr die hochfrequente Regeneration nach Transformation mit Agrobacterium tumefacies entwickelt. Hypokotyl- und Blattsegment-Explante wurden auf MS-Medium mit unterschiedlichen Konzentrationen und Kombinationen von IAA (0-0.57 M) und Kinetin/BAP/Zeatin (8.922.2 M) kultiviert. Hypokotyl-Explante hatten das hchste Regenerationsvermgen. Die meisten Sprosse (16 pro Explant) wurden auf MS-Medium mit 0.57 M IAA und 22.2 M BAP gebildet. Die Konzentration von extrazellulrem Calcium, Nitrat- und Ammoniumstickstoff im Medium hatte eine deutliche Wirkung auf die Regeneration. Das optimale Medium fr die maximale Sprossproliferation (30 pro Explant) enthielt 3 mM CaCl2, 1900 mg l-1 KN03, 825 mg l-1 (NH4)2S04, 22.2 M BAP und 0.57 M IAA. Die Bewurzelung der Einzelsprosse erfolgte auf B5-Medium mit 2.85 M IAA. Das hochfrequente Regenerationssystem diente als hervorragendes Werkzeug zur Etablierung einer effizienten Brokkoli-Trans formationsmethode. Hypokotyl-Explante wurden zusammen mit dem Agrobacterium tumefaciens-Stamm LBA 4404 kultiviert, der einen binren Vektor mit den jeweils von einem separaten CaMV35S-Promoter kontrollierten Genen fr die Neomycin-Phosphotransferase (nptII) und die -Glucuronidase (gus) enthielt. Die erste Selektion der transformierten Expiante erfolgte ber zehn Tage auf Medien mit hoher (100 mg l-1) und die Regeneration auf optimiertem Regenerationsmedium mit geringerer Kanamycinkonzentration (50 mg l-1). Die Hufigkeit der transgenen Pflanzen wurde auf der Basis der GUS-Aktivitt mittels histochemischem X-gluc-Test nachgewiesen. Die Wirkung einer Vorkultur und das Wachstum der Bakterienkultur wurde untersucht. Eine zweitgige Vorkultur vor der Inokulation mit A. tumefaciens fhrte zu einer verbesserten Transformationsrate. Bakterienkulturen, die bis zu einer optischen Dichte von 2.0 gewachsen waren, fhrten zur hchsten Transformationsrate (60 %). Der Nachweis der Integration des nptii-Gtns erfolgte durch PCR. Alle transgenen Pflanzen wuchsen normal. Die vorliegende Untersuchung zeigt die verbesserte hochfrequente Regeneration und Transformation von Brassica oleracea var. italica.
24126669|Knowledge of the flesh firmness and sugar content of fruit is needed to grade or process peach fruit. The objectives of this study were to determine distribution of flesh firmness and sugar content in a Chinese peach cultivar. There were significant differences for firmness and sugar content in fruit 'latitude' and 'longitude'. Firmness and sugar content of samples from the suture area differed from those of cheek. Firmness and sugar content vary significantly with ripeness, also. Firmness decreased with increase of sugar content for ripe peach, but increased with increase of sugar content for a peach of the same picks.
24126818|The effects of the salicylic acid (SA) on the content of soluble carbohydrates, free proline, malonaldehyde (MDA) and the activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD), peroxidase (POD), catalase (CAT) in strawberry seedling leaves under drought stress were studied. The results showed that under drought stress, suitable concentration of SA increased the content of osmotic adjustment substances such as soluble carbohydrates and free proline of strawberry leaves. Meanwhile, it induced the activity of antioxidant enzymes, alleviated membrane lipid peroxidation as well as membrane system damage, thus improving the drought resistance of strawberry plants.
24127093|To investigate the effect of electrical conductivity (EC) in microbubbles-generated nutrient solution and periodic intermittent microbubble generation on lettuce growth, lettuce seedlings were cultivated at three different levels of EC (0.5,1.0, or 2.0 dS m-1) with microbubbles or at 1.0 dS nr1 with macrobubbles and under three levels of intermittent microbubbles generation (15, 30, and 60 min h-1) in hydroponic culture for 2 weeks. Leaf fresh weight (LFW) of lettuce treated with 0.5 and 1.0 dS m-1 EC microbubbles was 1.54 and 1.43 times greater than those treated with macrobubbles. Although LFW of lettuce grown in 2.0 dS m-1 was significantly less than 0.5 and 1.0 dS m-1 conditions, there was no difference in leaf dry weight (LDW) among the three ECs microbubble conditions. There were no significant differences in the fresh and dry weights of lettuce treated with periodic intermittent generation of microbubbles for 15, 30 and 60 min h-1 (Cont.) regardless of significant difference between microbubble and macrobubble treatments. These results indicate that the microbubble generation in nutrient solutions can promote lettuce growth and intermittent microbubble generation for 30 min h-1 or less can be adapted effectively in hydroponic culture systems.
24126307|The influence of mean 24 hour air temperature and photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD) on the vegetative growth of Ilex x meserveae 'Blue Princess' (S.Y. Hu) was investigated. Rooted cuttings were grown in greenhouse compartments at four mean air temperatures (18.3, 20.6, 23.9 and 25.8 C) combined with four PPFD regimes (0.6, 2.1, 3.7 and 4.7 mol m-2 d-1). The number of unfolded leaves was recorded continuously throughout the experiment. Shoot length, number of side shoots, number of leaves below the first side shoot and dry weight were measured at the end of the experiment. Periodic growth with two growth cycles could be observed in 3 treatments (2.1 mol m-2 d-1 and 25.8 C; 2.1 mol m-2 d-1 and 23.9 C; 0.6 mol m-2 d-1 and 25.8 C) for the duration of the experiment. The number of side shoots reached an optimum at 20.6 C and 3.7 mol m-2 d-1. Side shoot formation only occurred after a dormant phase of the previous flush. The main shoot was significandy longer in the 25.8 C treatment compared to all the other temperature treatments and also the number of leaves below the first side shoot was highest at the highest temperature. Dry weight increased linearly with increasing temperature and did not seem to reach an optimum within the tested temperature interval. For the production of a well-branched holly plant we would therefore recommend growing holly at 20.6 C and 3.7 mol m-2 d-1. Within all treatments individuals did not start growing simultaneously (non-synchronised), but we could find a trend towards better synchronization in the cooler treatments. The results indicate that further studies are needed on growth retardation and crop synchronization. Gegenstand dieser Untersuchung war der Einfluss der durchschnittlichen tglichen Lufttemperatur und der Photonenflussdichte (PPFD) auf das vegetative Wachstum von Ilex  meserveae 'Blue Princess' (S.Y. Hu). Bewurzelte Stecklinge wurden in Gewchshausabteilungen bei vier verschiedenen Durchschnittstemperaturen (18.3, 20.6, 23.9 and 25.8 C) gezogen, die mit 4 verschiedenen Photonenflussdichten (0.6, 2.1, 3.7 and 4.7 mol m-2 d-1) kombiniert wurden. Die Aufzeichnung der Anzahl der entwickelten Bltter wurde whrend des gesamten Experiments regelmig durchgefhrt. Die Lnge der Triebe, die Anzahl der Seitentriebe, die Anzahl der Bltter bis zur ersten Verzweigung und das Trockengewicht der Triebe wurden am Ende des Experimentes gemessen. Periodischer Zuwachs mit zwei vollstndigen Zuwachszyklen whrend der Dauer des Experiments konnte in 3 Behandlungen (2.1 mol m-2 d-1 and 25.8 C; 2.1 mol m-2 d-1 and 23.9 C; 0.6 mol m-2 d-1 and 25.8 C) beobachtet werden. Die Anzahl der Seitentriebe erreichte ein Optimum bei 20.6 C and 3.7 mol m-2 d-1. Eine Entwicklung von Seitentrieben erfolgte nur nach der Ruhephase des vorhergehenden Zuwachszyklus. Der Haupttrieb war signifikant lnger in der 25.8 C Behandlung als in den klteren Behandlungen und auch die Anzahl von Blttern bis zur ersten Verzweigung war bei der hchsten Temperaturbehandlung am hchsten. Das Trockengewicht der Triebe stieg linear mit der Temperatur, ohne innerhalb des getesteten Intervalls ein Optimum zu erreichen. Fr die Produktion von gut verzweigten Stechpalmen wrden wir daher empfehlen, die Pflanzen bei 20.6 C and 3.7 mol m-2 d-1 zu kultivieren. Innerhalb einer Behandlung starteten nicht alle Individuen gleichzeitig mit dem Zuwachs (unsynchronisiert), wobei jedoch ein Trend zu besserer Synchronisation in den klteren Behandlungen vorhanden war. Unsere Ergebnisse zeigen weiterhin, dass weiterfhrende Studien zur Sprosslngensteuerung und zur Synchronisation der Individuen ntig sind.
24126476|Hamamelis comprises many selected cultivars flowering during winter and early spring. Early flowering and the exotic flowers may therefore be of interest for forcing and sale as cut flowers. Three cultivars of Hamamelis  intermedia, 'Arnold Promise', 'Diane' and 'Jelena', and the cultivar 'Pallida' of Hamamelis mollis, and one seedling selection of H. mollis were grown on the South-Western coast of Norway for six growing seasons (1997 to 2002). The amount of flowers on the branches differed between cultivars but was stable within cultivar from year to year. The time of full bloom differed from year to year for the same cultivar by 20 to 30 days (d), and the latest cultivar ('Diane') bloomed on average 34 d later than the earliest ('Jelena'). Branches of all cultivars harvested for forcing before mid December flowered poorly and only after 15 to 20 d in forcing conditions. When harvested in January, flowering was abundant and occurred after only 2 to 5 d in forcing conditions. The longest spell of flowering was observed in H. intermedia 'Arnold Promise' and the shortest in H. mollis 'Pallida'. However, keeping quality differed from year to year, with the longest keeping quality occurring in flowers which bloomed when temperatures in the field were stable. Storage conditions could be made to compensate for low temperatures under outdoor conditions and stored branches would then flower after the same forcing time as branches harvested directly from the field. Different temperatures during storage (3, 6 and 9 C) did not influence the number of days until flowering, but vase life decreased with increasing time and temperature in storage.
24126646|Prunus mahaleb L. is a commonly used cherry rootstock as seedling. Breaking the seed dormancy is essential for successful seedling production. Several authors report on successful application of gibberellins to break seed dormancy and improve germination. There are many molecular variations of gibberellic acid, the most widely used commercially and in experiment is GA3. In this trial the efficiency of GA3 and GA4+7 was compared on Prunus mahaleb L. 'Korponay' at different seed age. Germination percentage, mean germination time (MGT) and germination velocity were evaluated. The results show that GA4+7 was more efficient than GA3 in breaking dormancy of fresh harvested P. mahaleb L. seeds. The mean germination time of fresh harvested seed was decreased by both gibberellin treatments; though the application of GA4+7 resulted in shorter MGT than that of GA3. 'Korponay' seeds when stored for a year, showed similar rates of germination compared to freshly harvested seeds. However, storing the seeds for a year did lead to slower germination speed. Application of gibberellins on seed stored for a year, did not have significant effect on the germination speed.
24126295|Based on general premises and considerations of models at high abstraction level, outlined in part I, this paper presents the parameters worked out for main vegetable species.
24126821|The tomato is one of the most popular vegetables in Europe, but since the introduction of modern production systems much attention has been paid to the issue 'lack of taste'. Consumers' experienced taste and quality, however, are not only dependent on attributes of the tomato such as taste and texture, but also on product appearance and labels signalling credence (e.g. origin and production method) and personal factors such as attitudes affecting consumers' quality experience. In this paper we hypothesise that credence labels (i.e. 'Swedish', 'Dutch' and 'Organic') have an effect on consumers' experienced liking of taste and total impression of tomatoes, and that attitudes towards those labels are correlated with experienced quality. Through a taste assessment with a Swedish consumer panel, we found a significant difference in liking of taste between tomatoes labelled 'Dutch' (Mean (M) = 4.54, Standard deviation (SD) = 1.68) and tomatoes labelled 'Swedish' (M = 5.88, SD = 1.70) and 'Organic' (M = 6.05, SD = 1.70), respectively. As for overall impression, tomatoes labelled 'Dutch' (M = 4.24, SD = 1.74) received lower grades than 'Swedish' (M = 5.59, SD = 1.76) and 'Organic' (M = 6.00, SD = 1.63). We found that attitudes towards origin are significantly correlated with liking of taste of tomatoes labelled 'Swedish' in a positive direction and 'Dutch' in a negative direction. We also found that positive attitudes towards organic products are positively correlated with liking of tomatoes labelled 'Organic'. The hypotheses are accepted and theoretical and practical implications are discussed.
24126650|Applications of the plant growth regulator trinexapacethyl (TE) [4-(cyclopropyl--hydroxymethylene)-3,5-dioxocyclohexane carboxylic acid ethylesterjcan enhance turfgrass colour, quality, and delay winter dormancy of warm-season turfgrass species. The objective of this study was to: study the effects of seasonal TE application on turfgrass quality, colour, fall colour retention and spring green-up of warm-season turfgrass species: Cynodon dactylon (L.) Pers., Buchlo dactyloides Engelm., Zoysia japonica Steudel, Paspalum notation (Flgge), Paspalum vaginatum Swartz, and Eremochloa ophiurioides (Munro) Hack in the Mediterranean region. Applications of TE to the nineteen seeded-type cultivars were made to fully established turf plots at a 0.38 kg active ingredient (a.i.) ha-1 rate in summer or fall. Application schedule included a single application, followed by zero or one sequential application at 4-wk. Overall, TE enhanced turfgrass colour and quality in summer. The late season TE application decreased the quality, fall green colour retention up to 3-wk and delayed spring green-up by 15 d to 30 d. Results support the use of sequential application of TE for improved turfgrass colour and quality in summer. Reduced early fall TE applications should be examined to extend fall colour retention in future studies.
24126725|Postharvest handling of vegetable crops, including storage, may affect the level of bioactive compounds present in plants. Two-year study on the influence of temperature during short-term storage (6 and 24 h) at room temperature and cold-storage (one week) on the content of quercetin, kaempferol and vitamin C in broccoli heads were performed. General Linear Model (GLM) and cluster analysis (CA) were applied to evaluate the effect of time and temperature of storage on the content of tested compounds. It was found that quercetin and kaempferol were stable and no losses of these compounds were observed during storage at room temperature. Vitamin C content significantly decreased under these conditions, whereas cold-storage had no significant influence on the content of this compound in comparison to fresh broccoli. It was also found that the increase of room temperature of storage caused the increase in quercetin and kaempferol contents and higher losses of vitamin C. The drop of cold temperature of storage may also cause decrease in flavonoid content in broccoli. The results demonstrate the importance of storage temperature for the content of vitamin C and flavonoids in broccoli.
24126680|Fruit production, leaf chlorosis and starch content were examined in cucumber plants under 18 and 24 h (continuous) photoperiods. Light levels were adjusted to provide daily quantum integrals of 16.4 mol m-2 day-1 in both treatments. Continuous light reduced fruit production, induced development of chlorosis on young, fully expanded leaves and gave lower starch content, primarily in leaves, compared to 18 h photoperiods. No correlation between chlorosis and hyper-accumulation of starch was found at the onset of visible leaf injury. The present study indicated that a lighting regime with continuous illumination should not be implemented in commercial cucumber production.
24126694|Disease incidence and varietal reactions of 51 melon landraces collected from Lake Van Basin, one of the secondary gene center of melon, to the physiologic races (the race 1 and the race 2) of Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. melonis (F.o.m.) were determined by artificial inoculations. The study was carried out in a growth chamber and pathogen isolates of the races were incubated in a medium containing corn meal and sand, and then this inoculation source was mixed with a seedling growth medium at the rate of 5 % (final density: 106 conidia m1-1). Melon seedlings were evaluated with a 0-3 scale four weeks after the seed sowing in order to detect disease incidence. Disease incidence in melon genotypes against the race 1 and race 2 of F.o.m. ranged between 23 % and 100 % and between 7 % and 100 %, respectively. Moreover, F.o.m. races 1 and 2 did not form any disease incidence in four and one melon genotypes, respectively. One of the melon genotypes, 65 ERC 03, was found to be resistant to both races.
24126330|Prunus laurocerasus 'Otto Luyken' was grown in a peat-free and in a white peat substrate in 5 L containers for 7 months. The peat-free substrate consisted of 40 % substrate compost, 30 % bark compost and 30 % wood fibre. The slow release fertilizer Osmocote (400 mg N L-1) and the organic fertilizer MALTaflor were used. MALTaflor was given in two doses: 400 mg N L-1 and 800 mg N L-1. Irrigation was carried out as trickle irrigation when the water tension reached 100 hPa. Physical properties of both substrates and stability of the N balance of the peat-free substrate were determined. During the experiment, plant growth, N uptake, mineral N content of the substrate and leaching of N, P, and K were measured. The amount of available water is less in the peat-free than in the white peat substrate. The incubation test showed an N immobilization of 138 mg N L-1 for the peat-free substrate. In both substrates marketable plants were produced. N uptake in the course of time followed the same patterns as fresh matter production. However, fresh matter and N uptake were less in the peat-free than in the white peat substrate. This cannot be attributed to low N content of the substrate, since they were higher in the peat-free than in the white peat substrate during the whole growth period. Higher water tensions in the peat-free substrate are supposed to impair spatial availability of N for the organic fertilizer from which only 25 % was mixed into the substrate at potting and 3 further doses were given as topdressing. In the first 5 weeks after potting leaching of N was higher for the peat-free than for the white peat substrate. At the end of the growing season the differences between fertilizers were larger than those between the substrates. Leaching for Osmocote was higher than for MALTaflor, even for the high dose of MALTaflor. More K and P were leached from the peat-free substrate than from white peat. From the peat-free substrate more K was leached than was added by the fertilizer.
24126351|N loss by denitrification from potted plants is subject to high variability. It was suggested that variability partly resulted from characteristics of the potting medium. Thus, peat properties were investigated with regard to their influence on denitrification N loss. The wettability of peat, which depended on substrate water content, showed a strong effect on N loss. Dry substrate produced less N emissions after irrigation than moist substrate. Sieving as well as compacting peat substrate increased denitrification N loss. This was mainly attributed to decreased air capacity. While compacted peat showed increased water and decreased air capacity already before planting, sieved substrate presumably changed during cultivation. Mixing sieved peat with rice husks or wood fibres (30 Vol.%) increased air capacity as measured by the 'Quick' method. Nevertheless, observed N emissions from the mixed substrate were at least as high as from peat. It was suggested that rice husks as well as wood fibres broke down and decomposed during the cultivation period and thus lost their positive effect on substrate aeration. In all experiments denitrification N loss sensitively reflected changes in substrate properties. It was concluded that substrate properties influenced the extent of denitrification N loss and significantly contributed to its variability. N-Verluste aus Topfpflanzen-Kulturen durch Denitrifikation unterliegen einer hohen Variabilitt. Es wurde vermutet, dass diese Variabilitt zum Teil durch Eigenschaften des Topfsubstrats verursacht wird. Daher wurden Torfeigenschaften hinsichtlich ihres Einflusses auf N-Verluste durch Denitrifikation untersucht. Die Benetzbarkeit von Torf, die vom Substrat-Wassergehalt abhing, zeigte einen starken Einfluss auf den N-Verlust. Trockenes Substrat produzierte weniger N-Emissionen nach Bewsserung als feuchtes Substrat. Sowohl das Sieben als auch das Verdichten von Torfsubstrat erhhte die Denitrifikationsverluste. Dies wurde zum Groteil auf eine verminderte Luftkapazitt zurckgefhrt. Whrend verdichtetes Substrat bereits vor der Bepflanzung eine erhhte Wasser- und eine verminderte Luftkapazitt zeigte, vernderte sich das gesiebte Substrat vermutlich erst whrend der Kultur. Das Mischen von gesiebtem Torf mit Reisspelzen oder Holzfasern (30 Vol.%) erhhte die mittels der Quick"-Methode bestimmten Luftkapazitt. Trotzdem waren die gemessenen N-Emissionen aus dem Substratgemisch mindestens so hoch wie aus Torfsubstrat. Es wurde vermutet, dass sich sowohl Reisspelzen als auch Holzfasern whrend der Kulturzeit zersetzten und dadurch ihren positiven Einfluss auf die Substratbelftung verloren. In allen Versuchen spiegelten die N-Verluste zuverlssig Vernderungen der Substrateigenschaften wider. Daraus wurde geschlossen, dass Substrateigenschaften Einfluss auf das Ausma der Denitrifikationsverluste haben und signifikant zu ihrer Variabilitt beitragen.
24126193|The intensive use of water, fertiliser, and chemical growth retardants in horticulture reflects a need for developing new and more environmental suitable production methods to reduce the usage of water and fertiliser, and to reduce the use of pesticides for growth control. We have focused on drought as a single stress factor or combined with reduced phosphorus (P) or reduced nitrogen (N) availability to regulate the growth of Hibiscus rosa-sinensis. Drought stress was applied as cyclic drought, alternating between container capacity and drought to visible wilt (650 to 800 hPa as measured with tensiometers placed in the growth substrate). We used a P buffer technique (Compalox-P) to maintain a predetermined and stable P concentration in the growth substrate. Reduced N was either provided as a constant low N fertigation or as a dynamic supply where the N availability varied throughout production according to plant demand. Drought as a single stress factor reduced plant height by 32 % and low P reduced plant height by 15 % as compared with the control. Combining drought and low P did not reduce the plant height much further. Continuous low N availability reduced plant height by 21 %, whereas there was no clear growth regulating effect of dynamic N availability. Post-production evaluations showed that chemically growth regulated plants had by far the highest percentage of senescent flower buds throughout the post-production evaluation test compared with plants from all other treatments. Reduced P and N availability during production improved the post-production stress tolerance by significantly reducing the number of senescent flower buds and increasing the number of open flowers compared with chemically growth regulated plants. Several cycles of drought reduced post-production quality compared with control plants but improved it compared with chemically growth-regulated plants. The potential benefits of using combinations of reduced water and nutrient availability as methods to reduce the use of pesticides for growth regulation in horticulture, and how these production treatments influence the post-production stress tolerance are discussed. Der intensive Gebrauch von Wasser, Dngemittel und chemischen Hemmstoffen im Gartenbau zeigt wie wichtig es ist, neue, umweltschonende Produktionsmethoden zu entwickeln, die diesen Verbrauch reduzieren. Deshalb haben wir Trockenheit als alleinigen Stressfaktor oder in Kombination mit geringer Phosphor- (P) oder Stickstoffverfgbarkeit (N) als Mittel zur Wachstumsregulation von Hibiscus rosa-sinensis untersucht. Trockenstress wurde in Form von zyklischer Trockenheit, alternierend zwischen Topfkapazitt und Trockenheit bis zur sichtbaren Welke (650 bis -800 hPa gemessen mittels Tensiometern im Substrat), eingesetzt. Zur Aufrechterhaltung der vorgegebenen und konstanten P-Konzentration im Substrat wurde eine P-Puffertechnik (Compalox-P) angewendet. Geringe N-Mengen wurden entweder durch konstant geringe N-Dngung oder durch eine dynamische Versorgung in Abhngigkeit von den Pflanzenbedrfnissen whrend der Produktion verabreicht. Im Vergleich zur Kontrolle reduzierte Trockenheit als alleiniger Stressfaktor die Pflanzenhhe um 32 % und ein geringes P-Angebot um 15 %. Die Kombination von Trockenheit und geringem P-Angebot reduzierte die Pflanzenhhe nicht erheblich strker. Konstant geringe N-Verfgbarkeit reduzierte die Pflanzenhhe um 21 %, wohingegen eine dynamische N-Versorgung keinen deutlichen Wuchsregulationeffekt zeigte. Das Verhalten der Pflanzen beim Endverbraucher zeigte, dass Pflanzen, die mit chemischen Wachstumsregulatoren behandelt worden waren, in diesem Zeitraum im Vergleich mit allen anderen Behandlungsmethoden, den hchsten Prozentsatz an seneszenten Bltenknospen aufwiesen. Geringe P- und N-Verfgbarkeit whrend der Aufzucht verbesserte die Stresstoleranz der Pflanzen beim Endverbraucher, da im Vergleich zu wuchsstoffbehandelten Pflanzen, die Anzahl der seneszenten Bltenknospen deutlich verringert und die Anzahl offener Blten erhht war. Zahlreiche Trockenzyklen verringerten die Qualitt beim Endverbraucher im Vergleich zur Kontrolle, erhhten sie aber im Vergleich mit wuchsstoffbehandelten Pflanzen. Der potentielle Nutzen der methodischen Anwendung von Kombinationen aus geringer Wasser- und Nhrstoffverfgbarkeit zur Reduktion des Pestizidverbrauchs im Gartenbau und ihr Einfluss auf die Qualitt beim Endverbraucher ist Gegenstand der Diskussion.
24126641|Fruits of 'Akca', an early ripening European pear (Pyrus communis L.) cultivar, were exposed to 38 C for 24 h, 48 h and 72 h immediately after harvest, and subsequently they were stored at 01 C and 85-90 % RH conditions for one month. During two harvesting seasons, after removing from the storage, they were placed at ambient conditions for determination of the shelf life. Fruit quality analysis, such as free sugars and organic acids, flesh firmness, fruit skin colour, weight loss, fruit taste, and flesh browning were performed at fifteen-day-intervals during the cold storage and at the end of the shelf life after the cold storage. All quality parameters with the exception of flesh browning and weight loss decreased during the storage and the shelf life period. Heat treatments did not affect sugar composition of the fruits. However, fruits heated for 48 h and 72 h had higher organic acid content, and no flesh browning at the end of the shelf life in contrast to controls and heated fruits for 24 h. In addition, the shelf life period of these fruits were prolonged at least five fold. Loss of flesh firmness was retarded especially in 72 h heated fruits.
24126885|The chill-sensitive cowpea cv 'Guinong' had subjected to different pre- and postharvest calcium treatments in order to determine an effective means of increasing shelf life, reducing the incidence and severity of rust stains. However, treatment of postharvest calcium chloride dipping had found to be less effective in reducing the rust stains symptoms. 'Guinong" were foliar sprayed with 0.2 % calcium chloride solution, and harvested at the 3050 % stage of maturity. At harvest, treated pods had lower soluble protein and malondialdehyde (MDA) than control, while no effect on chlorophyll content and the time required ripening. During low temperature storage, lower levels of decay rate, weight loss, soluble protein, chlorophyll content, peroxidase (POD) activity and MDA has found in treated pods compared with control. In addition, the storability of treated pods had extended for up to 15 days more than that of the control and the preharvest treatment prior to postharvest.
24126399|This work describes a new, computerised vision-based model to estimate the diameter and number of apple fruit on a tree and hence its yield autonomously under natural weather conditions in a fruit orchard. A charge-coupled device (CCD) camera acquired images of cvs 'Golden Delicious' and 'Jonagold' apple (Malus domestica L. Borkh.) trees seven times in the vegetation period, i.e. every two weeks from June to September 2007 for modelling the tree volume, fruit diameter and yield at harvest time. Images were processed off-line using image analysis for fruit colour, shape and texture. The fruit detection algorithm was successfully tested on trees bearing from 15 to 42 apple fruits and missed or mis-classified 1 to 3 apple fruits per tree. Fruit detection was sufficiently accurate with an 89 % rate and an overall error rate of 2.2 %. Fruit diameter was underestimated at the beginning of fruit growth in June, but the data corresponded closely (R2 = 0.96) with orchard measurements from July onwards, which enabled accurate modelling of the expected yield per tree. The proposed autonomous model hence has a large potential for forecasting the yield in June/July of harvest in September/October initially of apple in Europe and in the Northern hemisphere.
24126699|On the basis of climate data and modules described in part I and the growth models of Krug and Liebig (1994, 1995) and co-workers, the duration of defined growth phases of vegetable species and the respective energy demand for heating were parameterised as a function of sites (Helsinki, Hannover, Naples), season, energy saving installations (single and double glass, energy screen) and set points for heating. Special results are:  the lower energy demand with higher set points as a result of accelerated growth of warmness demanding species or in warmness demanding phases at low external temperature  at low air temperatures (set points) in greenhouses the accelerated emergence with lower energy demand with seeding in the ground soil compared to seeding into trays on tables  the favourable effect of higher set points, when accelerated growth avoids unfavourable external conditions or reduces their growth retarding effects  the absolute values of the energy saving effect of double glass (about 40 %) and of energy saving screens (735 %) per crop depend on species, climate and season  the data calculated on the basis of the extended and improved submodels confirm earlier recommendations (Krug and Liebig 1988, 1994, 1995) and extend them with regard to different sites, greenhouse types and sizes as well as energy saving installations. Their importance increases with cooler climates and/or seasons. The calculations presented are examples, which can be specified and/or extended by other growth factors (e.g. CO2, artificial light, soil heating) and other species. Other growth parameters and equations can be requested from the institute.
24126662|Flesh browning development of plum fruit during cold storage is the major factor to result in accelerated quality loss and reduced commercial value of the fruit. Experiments were conducted to test the role of GA3 in inhibiting the flesh browning development of plum fruit during storage at low temperature. Plum fruit were dipped for 3 min into 0 (control), 50, 100 and 200 l l-1 GA3 solutions, respectively, and then stored for 90 days at 2 C and 8590 % relative humidity. Changes in activities of polyphenol oxidase (PPO), peroxidase (POD) and phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) and concentrations of phenolics and ascorbic acid (AA), in relation to flesh browning development were measured. Application of GA3 to plum fruit reduced flesh browning development, inhibited activities of POD and PAL, and delayed the decrease of AA concentration and the increases of total phenolic concentration and PPO activity. Accordingly, the results suggested that the inhibition of flesh browning development of cold-stored plum fruit by GA3 treatment could be due to both a higher AA level and reduced activities of PPO and POD which catalysed oxidation of phenolics. Use of GA3 exhibited a potential for storage life extension and quality maintenance of plum fruit at low temperature.
24126449|Glufosinate ammonium-based herbicides are commonly used in commercial vineyards to control excessive growth of weeds. However, glufosinate ammonium also seems to have antifungal properties. Since recent reports indicate fungicidal activities also to grape pathogens, several fungal organisms putatively pathogenic to grapevine (Botrytis cinerea, Guignardia bidwellii, Pnicillium expansum, Phomopsis viticola) were exposed to glufosinate ammonium in an in vitro assay. The herbicidal compound caused reduction of mycelial growth in a dose dependent manner. G. bidwellii was the most sensitive pathogen, and mycelial growth was reduced about of 80 % when exposed to a 500fold diluted solution of glufosinate ammonium normally applied to the field. As an interesting side effect, glufosinate ammonium nearly inhibited spore production in Penicillium expansum cultures when exposed to the same low concentration. Even though fermentation of must by yeasts may be affected due to residues attached to grapes, spray applications of glufosinate ammonium to the ground leading to a dispersal of small amounts to non-treated areas could help to reduce the built-up of secondary inoculum in the same season or primary inoculum for the following year.
24126804|Prohexadione-calcium (ProCa) is used to control vegetative growth in some fruit crops. We evaluated the effects of single and repeated ProCa treatments (100 or 200 ppm) on vegetative growth and cropping potential of biennial-fruiting raspberry (Rubus idaeus L.) cultivars 'Glen Ample' and Tulameen'. After the initial reduction in primocane growth rate, growth resumed three to four weeks after the first ProCa application. The second application was necessary to achieve permanent reduction in cane height. In 'Glen Ample', primocane growth was reduced by 25 to 28 cm and dry weight by 18 to 26 % following two ProCa treatments. In 'Tulameen' the reduction in primocane growth was 15 cm, and in cane dry weight 19 %, when treated twice with 200 ppm ProCa. After ProCa applications, treated plants produced shorter internodes than the control plants. However, after growth resumption new internodes in the treated plants were longer than in the control plants. Effects on the reproductive performance were evaluated after dormancy release. In 'Glen Ample', repeated ProCa applications reduced the number of lateral shoots, as well as the number and proportion of flower buds, and slightly delayed flowering. Presumably, altered gibberellic acid metabolism had interfered with flower induction. However, the total number of flowers per cane was not affected in either of the cultivars. As ProCa was effective in reducing vegetative growth of primocanes without affecting cropping potential, it may become useful in growth control of biennial fruiting raspberry cultivars. However, timing and number of ProCa applications are extremely crucial.
24126806|Two models developed to predict flower infections by Botrytis cinerea, the cause of grey mould, were evaluated in field grown June bearing strawberries in Norway. Fungicide applications based on model predictions were compared to a standard spray programme. The Ohio model predicted risk of infection based on temperature and number of hours with free water, and the BOTEM model used day time vapour pressure deficit and night time temperature. The Ohio model was tested in 16 site/year combinations and the BOTEM model in 8 of the same sites/years. The standard spray programme included 4 (14 sites/years), 3 (one site/year) or 2 (one site/year) routine sprays during flowering and early fruiting with different fungicides, approximately one week apart. All plots treated with fungicides had a lower level of grey mould and a higher yield compared to unsprayed. The mean percentages of grey mould in fruits at harvest were 7.2, 11.5, and 16.5 if following the standard programme, the Ohio, or the BOTEM models, respectively. In several sites/years, very good control of grey mould was achieved using a less intensive spray programme based on infection predictions, but the models need improvement to more clearly identify conditions that do not permit a reduction in fungicide applications. When all three strategies were included, the mean number of fungicide applications was significantly lower (P < 0.001) using the Ohio and BOTEM models (1.4 and 1.1, respectively) compared to the standard programme (3.8). For all sites/years including the standard programme and the Ohio model, 3.8 and 2.0 sprays were applied, respectively. Yield was always higher in treated plots than in untreated, but the difference was significant only in 7 and 5 out of 16 site/year combinations for the normal programme and the Ohio model, respectively, and 2 out of 8 site/year combinations for the BOTEM model.
24126369|Basic features, achievements and special problems of modelling plant/crop development, in this part the impacts of photoperiodism and temperature on endodormancy, are reviewed, extended and applications in vegetable production are discussed.
24126841|The effects of a seven day period with increased temperature from a standard level of 20 to 27,32 or 37 C during flower initiation on apparent quantum efficiency (Fv/Fm), chlorophyll content and flowering behaviour in raspberry 'Autumn Bliss', 'Autumn Treasure', 'Erika', 'Fall Gold' and 'Polka' were investigated. The Fv/Fm decreased steadily from 0.82 to 0.70 on the seventh day at 37 C in 'Autumn Bliss' and 'Fall Gold'. A significant diurnal variation in Fy/Fm, characterized by a midday depression and partial recovery in the evening was observed in 'Polka'. Plants of 'Autumn Bliss' exposed for seven days to 37 C had 58 % less chlorophyll a as compared to those grown at 20 C. The chlorophyll a/b ratio decreased to 20 % at 37 C in 'Autumn Bliss', and 'Fall Gold'. The number of days to anthesis of the terminal flower was not significantly affected by the temperature treatments. The number of unopened axillary buds decreased at 37 C in 'Autumn Bliss', 'Autumn Treasure', "Fall Gold' and 'Polka'. The percentage of flowering lateral shoots per plant decreased by 16 % at 37 C in 'Autumn Bliss' whereas it increased by 7 % at 37 C in 'Autumn Treasure' and 'Erika'. Seven days at 37 C during flower induction delayed flowering in 'Autumn Treasure' and 'Erika' resulting in 20 % less unopened flowers at the time of registration compared with reference plants. Thus the negative responses of heat stress was reflected in a decreased midday Fv/Fm in all cultivais, while there was a remarkable difference in chlorophyll content and flowering behaviour among cultivars. These responses suggest that there is a difference of annual-fruiting raspberry cultivars in their inherent ability to adapt to heat stress.
24126692|Effect of particle type film antitranspirant 'Limewash' as preharvest foliar spray on stomatal resistance, ABA, transpiration, growth, and productivity of pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) plants grown in sandy soil under water deficit condition was studied. Data show that plants grown under water stress have a high stomatal resistance. Water-stressed plants had higher ABA concentrations and low relative water content, while leaf osmotic potential (s) was increased. Plant growth, as represented by total dry weight, was decreased and fruit quality was reduced. Fruit yield was also reduced and postharvest decay was increased in water stressed fruit. 'Limewash' spray was likely to overcome the harmful effect of water stress and reserved plant growth, physiology and productivity almost similar to the control. The application of 'Limewash' showed to be useful for regulating plant physiology and decreased postharvest decay in water stressed fruit.
24126303|Mature green 'Solo' papayas individually packed in low-density polyethylene (LDPE), polypropylene (PP) and Pebax-C films, to create a modified atmosphere (MA) around the fruit, were stored at 7 or 13 C and 8590 % relative humidity. The rates of respiration and ethylene production gave an indication of chilling stress. The electrolyte leakage from whole fruit, measured as electrical conductivity, increased with the appearance of slight chilling injury (CI) symptoms and showed proportional increase with the severity of CI. Modified atmosphere packaging (MAP) prevented the development of CI symptoms during storage at 7 or 13 C for 30 days, but fruits stored at 7 C failed to ripen normally and showed blotchy appearance due to skin scald, and showed internal injury. LDPE and Pebax-C packed fruits stored at 13 C showed higher retention of ascorbic acid, total carotenoids and lycopene after 30 days storage at 13 C + 7 days in air at 20 C. However, non-packed fruits stored at 13 C up to 20 days did not suffer in their ascorbic acid content compared to 30 days storage at both the temperatures. Therefore, individual packaging of 'Solo' papaya in LDPE or Pebax-C film could prevent the chilling injury at 13 C for 30 days and maintained the acceptable levels of dietary antioxidants. Reife, grne Papayas der Sorte 'Solo' wurden, um eine die Frucht umschlieende, modifizierte Athmosphre zu schaffen, einzeln in leichte Folien aus Polyethylen (LD-PE), Polypropylen (PP) oder Pebax-C verpackt und bei 7 bzw. 13 C und 8590 % relativer Feuchtigkeit gelagert. Die Respirations- und Ethylenbildungsraten dienten als Indikatoren fr den Kltestress. Der Elektrolytverlust der ganzen Frucht, der mittels elektrischer Leitfhigkeit gemessen wurde, stieg mit dem Auftreten von leichten Klteschden (CI) an und steigerte sich proportional zur weiteren Ausbreitung der CI. Die Verpackung in modifizierter Atmosphre (MAP) verhinderte das Auftreten von Cl-Symptomen whrend der 30-tgigen Lagerung bei 7 bzw. 13 C, jedoch reiften die bei 7 C gelagerten Frchte nicht normal weiter, sahen aufgrund von Schalenvernderungen fleckig aus und hatten auch innere Verletzungen. In LDPE oder Pebax-C verpackte und bei 13 C gelagerte Frchte wiesen nach der Kombination von 30 Tagen Lagerung bei 13 C + 7 Tagen offen bei 20 C eine bessere Erhaltung von Ascorbinsure, Gesamtkarotinoiden und Lykopin auf. Allerdings zeigten nichtverpackte und 20 Tage bei 13 C gelagerte Frchte im Vergleich zu 30 Tage bei 7 bzw. 13 C in Folie gelagerten, keine Unterschiede im Ascorbinsure-Gehalt. Die Einzelverpackung von Papayafrchten der Sorte 'Solo' in LDPE oder Pebax-C-Folie kann das Auftreten von Klteschden nach 30-tgiger Lagerung bei 13 C verhindern und ein akzeptables Ma an diettischen Antioxidantien erhalten.
24126700|Five morphologically different isolates of Fusarium foetens were cultivated on potato dextrose agar (PDA), and the fungal volatile compounds were detected and analysed by headspace sorptive extraction (HSSE) followed by gas chromatography / mass spectrometry (GC/MS). Ten sesquiterpenes and five cyclohexane derivatives were detected. Hierarchical cluster analysis enabled the differentiation between red coloured sesquiterpene producing strains and white or pink coloured cyclohexane derivative producing strains. This result has been confirmed by sensory characterisation carried out by sensory trained examiners. Sesquiterpenes 10, 11 and 18 were detected in all isolates of both groups, however, in the first group at a higher level with an average of 88 %-peak area. The patterns of a RAPD-PCR analysis did not show any differences between the isolates. However, RAPD-PCR enables a clear differentiation of Fusarium foetens from Fusarium begoniae and Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. cyclaminis isolates. The combination of both techniques, the HSSE and the RAPD-PCR, provides an improvement in identification of F. foetens and differentiation of its strains. Begonia elatior hybrids (Begonia x hiemalis), cultivar 'Barkos', were inoculated with a sesquiterpene producing strain of Fusarium foetens and incubated in a moist chamber. The volatile organic compounds were extracted and analysed by using the same methods as for the above-mentioned in vitro experiments. The three sesquiterpenes 10,11 and 18, previously detected on agar plates, achieved an average of 63 %-peak area. Only traces of the main compounds were detected in extracts from whole infected plants. Therefore, practical application e.g. in the form of a so-called "e-nose" to help detect infected plants is currently not realistic, but holds promise for the future.
24127045|Powdery mildew is a serious cucumber disease. The plant kingdom represents an enormous reservoir of various biologically active molecules; twenty-two Chinese plants were screened using a detached leaf-disc assay for preventive effect against powdery mildew (Sphaerotheca fuliginea). Four plant extracts, Euphorbia humifusa Willd, Robinia pseudoacacia L., Photinia serrulata Lindl and Cucurbita moschata (Duch.) Poiret, showed high preventive effects. Further in vivo potted seedlings assays of these four plant extracts showed E. humifusa and R, pseudoacacia extracts had not only preventive effect but also curative effect. The control effect of E. humifusa extracts was confirmed in the greenhouse test. The stability assays of E. humifusa and R. pseudoacacia extracts showed these two extracts are relatively stable under 40 C, alkali condition, and treatment of light, ultraviolet treatment in short period. These results may be a basis for further developing a natural fungicide against cucumber powdery mildew.
24126332|The aim of the experiment was to ascertain the dependence of the carbohydrates (sorbitol, sucrose, glucose and fructose) in fruits and leaves, organic acids in fruits, nitrogen content in leaves and leaf chlorophyll content according to the different rates of nitrogen supply. The analyses were conducted on 13-year-old cv. 'Golden Delicious' apple trees (Malus domestica Borkh.), which were either fertilized with 80 kg N ha-1 (N-80) or 200 kg N ha-1 (N-200) or not fertilized (N-0) as control. The leaf nitrogen content was significantly higher in the treatment N-200 than in the N-0 treatment. A seasonal decrease in leaf nitrogen content was noticed in all treatments. Leaf SPAD (indexed chlorophyll content) readings were increasing until the end of July and then stagnated. All over the season, the readings were significantly higher in treatment N-200 than in the N-0 treatment and from mid- June to end of July also higher than in the N-80 treatment. The nitrogen supply did not affect the content of single sugars nor did it affect total sugars in the leaves. The nitrogen fertilization had no effects the level of sorbitol in the fruits; increased N-supply resulted in lower contents of sucrose and fructose and higher contents of glucose in fruits. As for organic acids, the nitrogen supply caused higher concentrations of citric acid.
24127675|The influence of chemical and hand thinning on the quality and quantity of pear fruit (Pyrus communis L.) form the cv. 'Conference' was investigated at Pirsenbreg (Slovenia) in 2005, 2006 and 2007. The experiment included these four treatments: chemical thinning with NAA 8 mg l-1, hand thinning 0.8 fruits cm-2 of trunk cross sectional area (TCSA), hand thinning 0.5 fruits cm-2 of TCSA and control in 2005. Because thinning with NAA 8 mg l-1 was insufficient, an additional treatment with NAA at 16 mg l-1 (NAA 16) was performed in 2006, and NAA at 20 mg l-1 (NAA 20) in 2007. Hand thinning 0.8 or 0.5 fruits cm-2 TCSA had no influence on floral density, yield efficiency or soluble solids content. Hand thinning did produce a statistically significant increase in fruit diameter and fruit weight in 2005 and 2007. Chemical thinning had a minor influence on fruit dimension (diameter, length, and weight), because the differences between control and individual chemical thinning treatments were insignificant. Chemical thinning by NAA of fruit on trees was insufficient. In 2005, we noticed a higher and statistically significant amount of soluble solids in the fruit of trees thinned with NAA 8 mg l-1. Chemical thinning with NAA 8 mg l-1 had no influence on fruit firmness in 2005, while in 2006 and 2007 fruit firmness was higher than in the control. Chemical thinning had no negative effect on floral density, number of fruit per tree, fruit set, yield per tree, yield efficiency, crop load or total acids content.
24134254|The cytokinin zeatin level was determined in carrots during pre- and postharvest period to assess a potential relationship with dormancy. Samples of the leaves and roots of the F1 carrot cv. 'Nandor' were obtained approximately two months before harvest for hormone analysis. After harvest, carrots were stored in 5 kg perforated polyethylene (PE) bags, and placed into the cold stores set at 0  and 5 C, and 85 % to 90 % relative humidity (RH). At monthly intervals in the post-harvest period, all samples were evaluated for their content of the zeatin, rooting ratio and degree and sprouting ratio and degree. Leaves possess a higher zeatin content than roots in the pre harvest period. During growth and development, zeatin content decreased in leaves, but increased in the root tissues. In the post-harvest period, zeatin levels of roots stored at 5 C increase and then subsequendy decline. Rooting and sprouting are observed at the same time when the level of cytokinin reaches its highest value. These data show that increasing levels of zeatin cause dormancy break in carrot tissues, and that levels of cytokinin fall with aging. Zeatin increases in 0 C treatment beginning of month 4. Der Zeatingehalt von Mhren wurde vor und nach der Ernte ermittelt und seine Beziehung zum Lagerverhalten untersucht. Zu diesem Zweck wurden in den letzten Monaten vor der Ernte fnf bzw. sechs Wurzel- und Blattproben von Karotten der F1-Sorte 'Nandor' zur Hormonanalyse entnommen. Nach der Ernte wurden die Mhren in Polyethylenscke (PE) mit 5 kg Fassungsvermgen gepackt und bei Temperaturen von 0  und 5  C bei 8590 % relativer Luftfeuchtigkeit in Khlrumen eingelagert. Die Zeatinkonzentration sowie Grad und Ausma der Wurzelbildung und des Austriebs wurden bei allen Proben in monatlichen Intervallen festgestellt. Vor der Ernte war der Zeatinpegel in den Blttern hher als in den Wurzeln. Whrend die Mhren heranwuchsen und sich entwickelten, nahm der Zeatingehalt der Blttern ab, whrend der Wert in den Wurzeln anstieg. Nach der Ernte stieg der Zeatingehalt der bei 5 C gelagerten Mhre an, um dann wieder abzunehmen. Dieser Anstieg war zeitgleich mit dem Beginn der Bewurzelung und des Austriebs zu beobachten. Die Daten belegen, dass die Ruhephase mit Anstieg des Zeatins endet und dass der Cytokiningehalt whrend des Alterungsprozesses sinkt. Bei der 0 C-Variante begann der Zeatinanstieg im vierten Monat nach der Ernte.
24126391|A new supplementary lighting technique, interlighting, has been devised for greenhouse cucumber production. A prerequisite for the adoption of the new lighting technique is the ability to provide economic benefit for the producer. Thus, the aim of this study was to compare the economics between conventional top lighting (TL), in which all of the high pressure sodium (HPS) lamps were mounted above the canopy, and two treatments of interlighting: slight interlighting in which the top lamps (HPS) covered 76 % and the vertically mounted interlighting lamps (HPS) 24 % (T+IL24) of the lighting, and intense interlighting in which the top lamps covered 52 % and the vertically mounted interlighting lamps 48 % (T+IL48) of the lighting. Economic comparison was made using a static deterministic discrete-event simulation model, and a sensitivity analysis was conducted. In yearly level, both interlighting treatments proved to be relatively more profitable than top lighting: the addition to relative profit was 18.51  m-2 for T+IL24 and 16.25  m-2 for T+IL48. However, the advantage of interlighting turned up only in periods when the amount of natural light was low, in autumn-winter and in spring. Sensitivity analysis indicated that interlighting required high management skills because already an 11 % yield reduction caused interlighting to be no longer relatively profitable. External shocks, such as reduction of cucumber price or increase of electricity price affected interlighting more strongly than top lighting, but interlighting still remained relatively more profitable than top lighting after a 50 % change.
24126217|A gene encoding for zucchini yellow mosaic virus (ZYMV) coat protein was transformed into 'Kirkagac 637', an important Turkish melon cultivar using Agrobacterium tumefaciens, and putatively resistant transgenic lines were obtained. Proximal cotyledonary expiants were incubated with Agrobacterium carrying the binary plasmid PGA643 including the nptii and yymv coat protein genes under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. ELISA tests and PCR analyses were performed to determine which plants were transformants. Transformation efficiency was 1,6 %. Four transformants were self pollinated to obtain R1 generation. The plants from the R2 generation were tested by PCR to demonstrate the integration of the zymv coat protein gene (1000 bp) in to the 'Kirkagac 637' genome. Segregation of 4 transformants was tested by X2 analysis and the results were consistent with predicted Mendelian ratios. In each case the P values were much greater than the rejection level of P=0.05. Das Gen fr das Hllprotein des Zucchinigelbmosaikvirus (ZYMV) wurde mittels Agrobacterium tumefaciens in 'Kirkaa 637', eine sehr wichtige Melonensorte in der Trkei, transformiert, was zu vermutlich resistenten transgenen Linien fhrte. Kotyledonen ohne apikalmeristematischen Teil wurden als Explantate verwendet und mit Agrobacterium tumefaciens, welches das binre Plasmid PGA643 mit dem nptii-Gen und dem zymv-Hllproteingen kontrolliert vom CaMV 35S-Promotor aufweist, inkubiert. Zur Erkennung transformierter Pflanzen wurden ELISA-Tests und PCR-Analysen durchgefhrt. Dabei zeigte sich, dass die Transformationsrate 1,6 % betrug. Vier Transformanten wurden geselbstet, um eine R1-Generation zu erhalten. Um die Integration des zymv Hllproteingens (1000 bp) in das Genom von 'Kirkagac 637' in den R2-Pflanzen nachzuweisen, wurden PCR-Analysen durchgefhrt. Die Aufspaltung der vier Transformanten wurde mit dem 2Test berprft. Die Ergebnisse stimmten mit der erwarteten Mendel-Spaltung berein. In jedem Fall waren die P-Werte wesentlich grer als 0.05.
24126125|The influence of polyamines (putrescine and spermidine; 5-1000 M) was studied on androgenesis of Cucumis sativus L. cvs 'Calypso' and 'Green Long'. Addition of polyamines (putrescine or spermidine; 5-200 M) to the embryo induction medium [B5 (Gamborg et al. 1968) containing 2.0 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 1.0 M 6-benzyladenine (BA) and 0.25 M sucrose] enhances the rate of embryogenesis and spermidine showed optimum response (90.66 and 100.33 embryos per 60 anthers of 'Calypso' and 'Green Long' respectively) at 200 M. Higher concentrations (500 or 1000 M) of putrescine and spermidine were not beneficial for embryogenesis. Embryo differentiation was achieved on B5 medium supplemented with 0.25 M of -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), 0.25 M kinetin (Kn) and 0.09 M sucrose. Transfer of the differentiated embryos to maturation medium containing 0.09 M sucrose and 10 M abscisic acid (ABA) resulted in maturation of embryos. Mature embryos developed into plantlets on germination medium containing 0.09 M sucrose. Embryos developed from anthers on induction medium containing 200 M spermidine showed maximum regeneration efficiency. Der Einfluss der Polyamine, Putreszin und Spermidin (5-1000 M), wurde am Beispiel der Androgenese der Cucumis sativus-Sorten 'Calypso' und 'Green Long' untersucht. Die Zugabe von Putreszin oder Spermidin (5200 M) zum Embryo-induzierenden Medium [B5 (Gamborg et al. 1968) mit 2.0 M 2,4-Dichlorphenoxyessigsure (2,4-D), 1.0 M 6-Benzyladenin (BA) und 0.25 M Saccharose] verbesserte die Embryogeneserate, wobei Spermidin seine optimale Wirkung (90.66 bzw. 100.33 Embryonen pro 60 Antheren bei 'Calypso' bzw. 'Green Long') bei 200 M entfaltete. Hhere Konzentrationen von Putreszin und Spermidin (500 oder 1000 M) waren fr die Embryogenese nicht frderlich. Die Differenzierung der Embryonen erfolgte auf B5-medium, dem 0.25 M -Naphthalensure (NAA), 0.25 M Kinetin (Kn) und 0.09 M Saccharose zugefgt wurden. Die berfhrung der differenzierten Embryonen auf das Reifungsmedium mit 0.09 M Saccharose und 10 M Abscisinsure (ABA) war erfolgreich. Reife Embryonen entwickelten sich auf dem Keimmedium, das 0.09 M Saccharose enthielt. Die Embryonen aus Antheren, die auf dem Induktionsmedium mit 200 M Spermidin kultiviert worden waren, wiesen die maximale Regenerationfhigkeit auf.
24126637|The in vitro response of the apple rootstocks M 9 and MM 106 to increasing concentrations of sucrose (44, 88, 176 mM) and sorbitol (82, 164, 329 mM) of the culture medium is reported. 88 mM sucrose in the MS medium was the optimal concentration for shoot proliferation of shoots of both the rootstocks as compared to 44 and 176 mM. By increasing sucrose concentration of the medium, shoot length of MM 106 plants increased. However, the effect of the tested sucrose concentrations on shoot length of M 9 plants was not apparent. The in vitro cultures of M 9 shoots produced the greatest number of shoots and the longest shoots per explant with 164 mM of sorbitol in the medium as compared to 82 and 329 mM sorbitol, and to all sucrose concentrations tested. However, the in vitro cultures of MM 106 produced the highest fresh weight per explant, the greatest number of new shoots and the longest shoots per explant with 329 mM of sorbitol in the medium compared to all the other treatments, indicating a genotypic effect. Mineral concentration in plants was also a function of genotype, carbohydrate source and its concentration in the medium. Explants of both rootstocks treated with sorbitol showed the highest peroxidase and catalase activities in leaves and stems. Although, no differences were found between the electrophoretic profiles of catalase, however, the presence of sucrose and sorbitol in the MS medium remarkably influenced the population of peroxidase isoenzymes in leaves and stems of both rootstocks.
24126114|This study was carried out to determine fruit characteristics at different harvest periods of 'Halehaven', 'Dixired', 'Glohaven', 'Jeferson', 'J.H. Hale', 'Redhaven', 'Earlyred', 'June Gold' and 'Blake' peach cultivars grown under ecological conditions in Van province during 1999 and 2000, and also to estimate their suitable harvest times. Fruits were harvested at five days intervals in 1999, and at three days intervals during 2000. In the cultivars, phenological properties, physical traits and chemical analyses were determined for two years. Fruit weights varied to cultivars, harvest times and years. In 2000, 'J.H. Hale' (94.0 g), 'Blake' (86.2 g), 'Redhaven' (79.2 g) had the highest fruit weights. In 1999, fruit weights in the majority of cultivars were lower than those in 2000. In both years, 'Earlyred' had the highest total soluble solid content: 17.2 % in 1999 and 19.2 % in 2000. This cultivar was followed by 'Redhaven' with 16.2 % and 'Dixired' with 16.2 % in 1999. The soluble solid contents were lower than those of the first year, depending on cultivars and on harvest times. Titratable acidity varied from 0.14 % ('Dixired', 1999) to 0.88 % ('Halehaven', 1999). In both years, harvest time for 'Earlyred' was earlier than that of other cultivars. Ziel dieser Untersuchungen war es, die Fruchteigenschaften der Pfirsichsorten 'Halehaven', 'Dixired', 'Glohaven', 'Jeferson', 'J.H. Haie', 'Redhaven', 'Earlyred', 'June Gold' und 'Blake', die in den Jahren 1999 und 2000 unter kologischen Bedingungen in der Provinz Van kultiviert wurden, zu ermitteln und den jeweils optimalen Erntezeitpunkt zu bestimmen. 1999 wurden die Frchte in Intervallen von fnf Tagen und 2000 von drei Tagen geerntet. ber die zwei Vegetationsperioden wurden phnologische, physikalische und chemische Eigenschaften der Sorten bestimmt. Das Fruchtgewicht variierte in Abhngigkeit von Sorte, Erntezeitpunkt und Jahr. 2000 wiesen 'J.H. Haie' (94.0 g), 'Blake' (86.2 g) und 'Redhaven' (79.2 g) die hchsten Fruchtgewichte auf. 1999 war das Fruchtgewicht der meisten Sorten geringer. In beiden Jahren war der Gehalt an lslichen Kohlenstoffen bei 'Earlyred' mit 17.2 % (1999) bzw. 19.2 % (2000) am hchsten. 1999 folgten 'Redhaven' mit 16.2 % und 'Dixired' mit 16.2 %. Die Kohlenstoffgehalte waren im zweiten Jahr in Abhngigkeit von Sorte und Erntezeitpunkt niedriger als 1999. Die titrierbare Sure variierte von 0.14 % ('Dixired', 1999) bis 0.88 % ('Halehaven', 1999). In beiden Jahren lag der optimale Erntezeitpunkt fr 'Earlyred' frher als bei den brigen Sorten.
24126169|The effects of incorporating plant growth regulators into the priming solution on low temperature germination and emergence performance of muskmelon [Cucumis melo L. (Reticulatus Group) cv. 'Athena'] seeds were investigated. Seeds were primed for 6 days at 25 C in darkness in 3.5 % (0.35 M) KNO3 solution containing one of the following: 1, 3, 5 or 10 M methyl jasmonate (MeJA), or 1, 3, 5 or 10 mM spermine. Following priming, seeds were subjected to germination and emergence tests at 150.5 C. Priming muskmelon seeds in the presence or absence of plant growth regulators significantly improved germination percentage, rate and synchrony at 15 C compared to untreated seeds. Inclusion of both MeJA and spermine at all concentrations except 10 M MeJA resulted in higher germination percentages compared to seeds primed in KNO3 only. The highest germination percentages were obtained from seeds that were primed in KNO3 solution supplemented with 1 M MeJA (96 %) and 1 mM (94 %) spermine. Moreover, the presence of both growth regulators in the priming solution improved low temperature emergence of muskmelon seeds compared to untreated seeds and seeds primed in KNO3 solution alone. Inclusion of 1 M MeJA and 3 mM spermine into the priming solution led to the highest emergence percentages with 90 % and 85 %, respectively, while priming in KNO3 solution in the absence of plant growth regulators resulted in significantly lower emergence percentage (31 %). Therefore, priming in 1 M of MeJA or 3 mM spermine incorporated into the KNO3 solution can be used as an effective method to improve low temperature performance of muskmelon seeds. Untersucht wurde die Wirkung der Beimengung von Wachstumsregulatoren zur Vorbehandlungslsung von Saatgut der Netzmelonen- [Cucumis melo L. (Reticulatus Group)] Sorte 'Athena' auf die Keimung und das Auflaufverhalten bei niedrigen Temperaturen. Saatgut wurde 6 Tage bei 25 C und Dunkelheit in 3.5 % (0.35 M) KNO3-Lsung unter Zugabe von 1, 3, 5 oder 10 M Methyljasmonat (MeJA) bzw. 1, 3, 5 oder 10 mM Spermin vorbehandelt. Daran anschlieend wurden die Samen zur Keimung und fr die Auflauftestungen bei 150.5 C gehalten. Die Vorbehandlung von Netzmelonensaatgut mit KNO3 verbesserte die Keimprozente, die Keimrate und die Gleichmigkeit der Keimung bei 15 C im Vergleich mit unbehandelten Samen. Im Vergleich zur Vorbehandlung nur mit KNO3 fhrte der Zusatz von beiden, MeJA und Spermin, in allen untersuchten Konzentrationen mit Ausnahme von 10 M MeJA zu hheren Keimprozenten. Die hchsten Keimprozente wurden bei Samen erzielt, die mit KNC>3-Lsungs unter Zugabe von 1 M MeJA (96 %) und 1 mM (94 %) Spermin vorbehandelt wurden. Auerdem verbesserte die Zugabe beider Wachstumsregulatoren in die Vorbehandlungslsung das Auflaufen der Netzmelonensamen bei niedrigen Temperaturen sowohl im Vergleich mit unbehandelten als auch mit nur KNO3 behandelten Samen. Die Zugaben von 1 M MeJA bzw. 3 mM Spermin zur Vorbehandlungslsung fhrten mit 90 bzw. 85 % zu den hchsten Keimprozenten, wohingegen die Vorbehandlung mit KNO3-Lsung ohne Wachstumsregulatoren mit 31 % zu signifikant geringeren Keimprozenten fhrte. Deshalb kann die Zugabe von 1 M MeJA oder 3 mM Spermin zur KNO3-Lsung als wirkungsvolle Methode zur Leistungsverbesserung von Netzmelonensamen bei niedrigen Temperaturen angewendet werden.
24127101|Zeolite amendment changes the properties of growing media. The effect depends on the rate and grading of the added zeolites. The aim of the work was to compare the effect of granulated and powdered zeolites on the physical and chemical properties of peat based growing media and on the growth of Pelargonium zonale, to compare these zeolite amended growing media with commercial growing medium used in Slovenian horticultural enterprises for growing Pelargoniums and other balcony plants and to find out whether it was possible to prepare quality peat based growing medium amended with granulated zeolite in both low and high quantities, 50 kg m-3 and 150 kg m-3. The plants were grown in peat based growing media amended with powdered or granulated zeolite (30 or 40 kg m-3 of powdered zeolite, 50 or 150 kg m-3 of granulated zeolite). Peat based medium amended with 50 kg m-3 of clay was used as a control. The chemical and physical properties of the growing media were analysed according to European standards. Retention curves were determined in a sand box in the range of -0.25 to -10 kPa. At the end of the experiment, the plants were evaluated for fresh weight, dry weight, and dimensions. All tested growing media had good physical properties for plant growth, in terms of total pore space, easily available water and air pore space. Growing media with powdered zeolite had rather higher water holding capacity over the entire measured water potential range. The best growth was recorded in growing media with powdered zeolite but plants of good marketable quality were also grown in growing medium with 50 kg m-3 of added granulated zeolite. The experiment showed that it is possible to use growing media amended with granulated zeolite with a lower price but only in quantities of 50 kg m-3.
24126216|Texture is an important quality parameter in fresh horticultural products. However, its complexity and variability entails that instrumental analyses describe it only partial whereas various properties are involved. For example, product water status, cell wall physical properties and tissue structure interdependently determine compressive and tensile strength, and elastic properties, which all together characterise texture. Furthermore, short-term effects on texture under unfavourable conditions during shelf live may be functionally different from those occurring during long-term storage. During recent years, new methods such as the acoustic impulse-response technique have become available to non-destructive ly analyse the elastic texture components. In addition, water potential, osmotic potential and turgor can be non-destructively assessed with the pressure bomb in combination with pressure volume analyses in many products. An experiment was designed to comprehensively study the effects of water status on different tissue elastic parameters. Water potential (), fresh mass, apparent elastic modulus (E, quasi-static compression test), and stiffness factor (S, acoustic impulse-response test) were repeatedly determined on radish tubers during desiccation by free transpiration. E showed a two-phased linear relationship with . At water potentials beyond the turgor-loss-region, the slope of this relationship largely declined. In turgescent tubers a considerable part of the variation of E could be explained by water potential. S showed a less clear two-phased relation and wilting seems to exhibit only minor effects on stiffness. Both E and S increased linearly with pressure potential but S showed a weaker correlation with turgor. While the decline in acoustic stiffness with increasing relative water deficit seemed to follow an exponential model, the correlation between E and RWD could be best described by a power function. E and S increased with increasing volumetric modulus of elasticity () in a curvilinear manner. When E and S were compared directly, a curvilinear correlation was found. These results show that S is a good indicator for changes in produce water content. Both parameters are useful to indicate postharvest texture changes. However, the results point toward the possibility that S is less related to short-term changes of product rigidity than E. Bei frischen gartenbaulichen Produkten ist die Textur ein wichtiger Qualittsparameter. Allerdings beinhaltet der Texturbegriff eine Vielzahl von unterschiedlichen Produkteigenschaften. Diese Vielschichtigkeit bedingt, dass eine objektive instrumenteile Analyse immer nur einen Teilaspekt der Produkttextur erfassen kann. So bestimmen der Wasserzustand, die physikalischen und chemischen Zellwandeigenschaften und die Gewebestruktur interaktiv die Druck- bzw. Zugfestigkeit und die elastischen Eigenschaften eines Produktes. Diese Gren wiederum bestimmen in erster Linie die Textur. Kurzzeitige nderungen der Textur, wie sie etwa durch ungnstige Bedingungen beim Transport und im Verkauf hervorgerufen werden, knnen sich funktionell von solchen Vernderungen unterscheiden, wie sie in der Langzeitlagerung auftreten. In den letzten Jahren wurden neue Methoden wie etwa die akustische impuls-response"-Technik verfgbar, die eine zerstrungsfreie Analyse der elastischen Texturkomponente ermglichen. Wasserpotential, osmotisches Potential and Turgor lassen sich bei vielen Produkten mit Hilfe der Druckbombenmethode in Kombination mit Druck-Volumen-Analysen ebenfalls nichtdestruktiv erfassen. Mit diesen Anstzen wurde ein Experiment konzipiert, das eine umfassende Untersuchung des Einflusses des Wasserzustandes auf verschiedene Gewebeelastizittsparameter erlaubt. Wasserpotential (), Frischmasse, scheinbarer Elastizittsmodul (E, quasi-statischer Kompressionstest) und Steifheitsfaktor (S, akustische impuls-response-Test) wurden wiederholt an Radieschen bestimmt, die bei freier Transpiration kontinuierlich austrockneten. E zeigte dabei eine zweiphasige, lineare Abhngigkeit vom Wasserpotential. Nach Unterschreiten des Welkepunktes verringerte sich die Steigung dieser Beziehung drastisch. Bei turgeszenten Knollen lsst sich die Variation von E primr auf die nderung des Wasserpotentials zurckfhren. S zeigte eine weniger deutlich ausgeprgte zweiphasige Beziehung wobei Welken nur einen geringen Einfluss auf den dynamischen Steifheitsfaktor auszuben scheint. Sowohl E als auch S nehmen linear mit dem Druckpotential zu, jedoch ist die Korrelation zwischen S und dem Turgor deutlich schwcher. Whrend die Abnahme des dynamischen Steifheitsfaktors mit zunehmendem relativen Wasserdefizit (RWD) offensichtlich einem exponentiellen Modell folgt, lsst sich die Korrelation zwischen E und RWD am besten mit einer Potenzfunktion beschreiben. Sowohl E als auch S zeigen eine nichtlineare Beziehung mit dem volumetrischen Elastizittsmodul (). Zwischen E und S besteht eine enge aber ebenfalls nichtlineare Korrelation. Die vorgestellten Ergebnisse verdeutlichen, dass S einen guten Indikator der Vernderungen des Produktwassergehaltes darstellt. Sowohl E als auch S sind wertvolle Parameter zur Bestimmung von Texturnderungen in der Nachernte. Allerdings deuten die Ergebnisse auch darauf hin, dass S ein schlechterer Indikator schneller nderungen der Produktsteifigkeit ist als E.
24126843|Arbuscular mycorrhizae (AM) associations are of great importance in horticultural seedling quality in the Mediterranean region, but information on host dependence and host responsiveness to the fungi species is scarce. Thus, this study was designed to assess the effects of several mycorrhizal fungi species and their cocktail on tomato (Solanum lycopersicon L.) seedling growth, quality and nutrient uptake. Tomatoes were grown in growth medium and inoculated with Glomus (G.) mosseae, G. darum, G. etunicatum, G. intraradices, G. caledonium and cocktail of them. The experiments were carried out three successive years from 1999 to 2001. Plants were harvested once in the first year experiment, but in the second and third year experiments plants were harvested twice at different developmental stage. In experiments, noninoculated, seed inoculation and seedling inoculation were compared. Pre-inoculation and re-inoculation increased growth parameters of tomato seedlings in three years. The inoculated plants produced significantly higher biomass than those of non-inoculated plants. In general, plants re-inoculated at seedling stage had higher growth performance than seed inoculated plants. However preinoculation (seed stage inoculation) have higher mycorrhizal dependency than re-inoculation (seedling stage). All the inoculated plants were extensively colonized by all of the AM fungi species. Inoculated plants flowered earlier than non-inoculated plants. The AM plants generally enhanced content of phosphorus (P) and zinc (Zn) and the G. etunicatum inoculated plants particularly had higher nutrient uptake compared to the other AM plants. Plant response to the mycorrhizal inoculation was different for both inoculation times. There were no specific species showed superiority to others for both inoculation times and three years repetition, however in generally, G. clarum mycorrhiza species gave the highest responses as regarded to measured parameters.
24126705|The physiological basis of rooting is well studied, it is known that certain substances formed in the plant are related to rooting, but their exact chemical composition, way of action, and the relation among them have not been cleared yet. Our aim was to examine the phenological status of the mother plant, the environmental conditions, the biochemical features of the cutting material at the time of collection, and the state of dormancy of buds. We also tried to discover correlations between these factors and rooting potential of cuttings, and also among the factors. The conclusion is that the complex process of rooting can be influenced in direct or indirect ways by the factors under investigation. The possible connections between rooting and the factors examined are shown in a figure.
24134258|The influence of 0, 30, 60 and 120 mM NaCl on seedling emergence and early growth of Tamarindus indica L. was investigated under greenhouse conditions. The first seeds in the non-saline treatment emerged (E1st) 7.5 days after sowing (DAS), 50 % of seeds had emerged (E50) 8.4 DAS, and a maximum of 88.1 % of seeds had emerged 11.8 DAS. Addition of 30, 60 or 120 mM NaCl delayed E1st by 1.5, 4.2 and 7.2 days, respectively, compared to the control. E50 at 30 and 60 mM NaCl was achieved 10.7 and 15.7 DAS, respectively, whereas seeds at 120 mM failed to reach E50. Seedling growth was not markedly affected by 30 mM, but progressively stronger inhibitory effects were observed within the 60 and 120 mM treatments. Der Einfluss von 0, 30, 60 und 120 mM NaCl auf Keimung und Smlingswachstum bei Tamarindus indica L. wurde unter Gewchshausbedingungen untersucht. Die ersten Samen der Kontrolle keimten 7,5 Tage nach der Aussaat. 50 % der Samen waren nach 8,4 Tagen gekeimt und bis zum 11,8 Tag wurde die maximale Keimrate von 88,1 % erreicht. Die Applikationen von 30, 60 bzw. 120 mM NaCl verursachten eine Verzgerung des Keimbeginns um 1,5 (30 mM), 4,2 (60 mM) bzw. 7,2 (120 mM) Tage im Vergleich zur Kontrolle. Eine Keimrate von 50 % wurde nur in den Behandlungen 30 und 60 mM NaCl nach 10,7 bzw. 15,7 Tagen erreicht. In der Behandlungsvariante 120 mM lag die Keimrate unter 50 %. Das Smlingswachstum wurde in der Behandlungsvariante 30 mM NaCl nur geringfgig beeinflusst, bei 60 und 120 mM verringerte sich das Smlingswachstum jedoch deutlich.
24126392|Basic features and special problems of modelling plant/crop development, in this part vernalisation, are reviewed, extended and utilisations in vegetable production are shown.
24126655|Pear-shaped fruits represent a recurrent shape in tomato. Two interesting Italian ecotypes, 'Pera d'Abruzzo' and 'Cuor di Bue di Albenga', which bear, respectively, nearly sphere-shaped and pear-shaped fruits, showed a strong genetic similarity when examined by means of traditional molecular markers, such as RAPDs. Therefore, on the base of previously identified genomic sequences, a CAPS marker was developed. This marker detects the mutation in the locus ovate, that led to the transition from round to pear-shaped fruits, and therefore is useful to distinguish the two groups, 'Cuor di Bue di Albenga' and 'Pera d'Abruzzo'. Furthermore, it can represent a useful tool to recover pear-shaped fruits in breeding programs in which the source of useful genes is a round-shaped accession and the recurrent genotype is a pear-shaped tomato.
24126155|Products containing prohexadione-Ca represent a considerable alternative to antibiotics for the control of secondary fire blight (Erwinia amylovora) in pears as well as in apples. Furthermore, less pathogen incidence is also induced by this compound in apples against scab (Venturia inaequalis), in grapevines against grey mould (Botrytis cinerea), and in several other host-pathogen systems. Clear evidence is available that these effects are primarily due to induced physiological resistance. However, it should not be ruled out that morphological and histological changes caused by prohexadione-Ca might support this effect. Fr die Kontrolle von sekundrem Feuerbrand (Erwinia amylovora) im Birnen- und Apfelanbau stellen Prohexadion-Ca-haltige Produkte eine relevante Alternative zu Antibiotika dar. Behandlungen mit dem Wirkstoff fhren auerdem zu einem geringeren Befall bei Apfel mit Schorf (Venturia inaequalis), bei Reben mit Graufule (Botrytis cinerea) und in weiteren Pflanzenarten mit anderen Pathogenen. Diese Effekte lassen sich primr auf induzierte physiologische Resistenz zurckfhren. Es sollte jedoch nicht ausgeschlossen werden, dass den durch Prohexadion-Ca bewirkten morphologischen und histologischen Effekten eine untersttzende Bedeutung zukommt.
24126324|The experiments were conducted between January and June to investigate the effects of temperature, lighting period and lighting regimes on gerbera (Gerbera jamesonii Bolus.). The plants were subjected to different temperatures (18, 21, 24 and 27 C), lighting periods (10 and 20 h), and different light regimes (10 h, 10 and 20 h in periods of 4 weeks, 10 and 20 h in periods of 6 and 2 weeks, and 20 h). The highest yield was obtained for plants grown at 21 C. Increasing temperature to 24 and 27 C reduced the yield by 21 and 56%, respectively. Increasing temperature also decreased stem diameter, fresh weight and keeping quality. The highest yield was obtained from the plants grown under 20 h lighting period as a total of the whole experimental period. In the first part of the experimental period, when the natural light conditions were poor, plants grown under 20 h lighting period produced the highest yield. However, when the natural light conditions improved in the spring, the plants grown under 10 h lighting period, partly or continuously, produced the highest yield. Die Versuche fanden zwischen Januar und Juni statt, um die Wirkung von Temperatur, Belichtungsdauer und -programmen auf Gerbera (Gerbera jamesonii Bolus.) zu untersuchen. Die Pflanzen wurden bei unterschiedlichen Temperaturen (18, 21, 24 and 27 C), Belichtungsdauer (10 and 20 h) und Belichtungsprogrammen (10 h, 10 und 20 h in 4-Wochen-Intervallen, 10 und 20 h in Intervallen von 6 und 2 Wochen und 20 h) kultiviert. Den hchsten Ertrag erzielten bei 21 C kultivierte Pflanzen. Hhere Temperaturen (24 und 27 C) reduzierten den Ertrag um 21 bzw. 56%. Hhere Temperaturen verringerten auerdem den Stieldurchmesser, das Frischgewicht und die Haltbarkeit. Den hchsten Ertrag insgesamt erbrachten die Pflanzen, die 20 Stunden Licht bekamen. Zu Beginn des Versuchszeitraums, wenn das natrliche Lichtangebot gering war, erzielten die Pflanzen im 20 h-Tag den hchsten Ertrag. Dies nderte sich mit zunehmendem Naturlichtangebot im Frhjahr. Ab diesem Zeitpunkt produzierten die Pflanzen, die teilweise oder vollstndig bei 10 h Zusatzlicht kultiviert wurden den hchsten Ertrag.
24126626|With field trials over 3 years in a commercial organic orchard in Switzerland we have tested the efficacy of Armicarb (potassium-bi-carbonate) for flower thinning in organic apple production. Over time, Armicarb was tested on 11 cultivars, at different application periods, in different concentrations, and always in comparison to other agents that are already allowed for thinning in organic fruit production in the European Union as e.g. lime sulphur, molasses, mechanical ropethinner or combinations of methods. Armicarb proved to be an efficient and reliable thinning agent with an efficacy similar to the now recommended methods with rope device, molasses or lime sulphur but has the advantage to be an environmentally very friendly product. On the other hand, the risk for fruit russeting is comparably elevated especially with cultivars 'Elstari, 'Golden Delicious' and 'Gala'. Finally, we have elaborated cultivar-specific recommendations for the use of Armicarb for thinning purposes, which were the basis for the Swiss Federal approval to use Armicarb for thinning in conventional and organic apple production in 2011/2012.
24126443|The European horticultural sector faces changes in its market environment, such as changes in trade regulations, concentration in the chain-, and environmental concerns. These issues may individually affect the future economic and environmental performance of horticulture. The objective of the present paper is to review partial equilibrium models in terms of their ability to cope with the aforementioned aspects of the horticultural sector. We found that changes in trade regulations are already modelled in a detailed way in horticultural partial equilibrium models. However, chain concentration and environmental concerns are addressed to a much lesser extent in the currently available models.
24126850|Light-emitting diodes (LED) allow narrow-band light to be easily obtained and can be used for narrow-band lighting in plant cultivation, with possible effects on plant growth and development. This study examined use of narrow-band lighting of different wavelengths in the cultivation of ornamental pot plant (Pelargonium and Petunia), tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) transplants and sunflower (Helianthus annuus), either as sole light source in growth chambers, or as endof-day (EOD) treatment in a greenhouse environment. Biometrie measurements on plant growth and measurements of photosynthesis and stomatal conductance showed that when Helianthus was grown exclusively in blue light, stem elongation was greater than when it was grown exclusively in yellow, red, green or white light. Similar results were obtained when blue light was supplied in EOD treatments for Petunia and Pelargonium and for tomato. However, stem elongation was also high when red light was given as EOD treatment to tomato, whereas green light gave the least elongated plants in these conditions. Biomass production was generally not affected by the different EOD treatments. For Helianthus plants grown solely in monochromatic light, plant biomass production was highest in red light. For Pelargonium, photosynthetic rate was highest in blue light. It was concluded that plant response to different wavelengths is species-dependent and that EOD treatment with narrow-band lighting might be useful for plant growth regulation.
24126281|Effects of preplant fertilization and fertigation in strawberry were studied in a field experiment established August 2003 in South-Eastern Norway. Half the field was fertilized at planting and fertigated with a low nutrient rate from spring 2004 (T1), while the second half was unfertilized at planting and instead fertigated with excessive nutrient solution from spring 2004 (T2). In 2005, both treatments were fertigated with an equal fertilizer rate. None of the treatments caused any deficiency symptoms during the trial, but, of all parameters recorded, only the number of leaves and leaf area compensated for the early limitation in nutrients. Yield and berry size in T1 were significantly higher compared to T2 in the first harvest year, despite the low fertigation rate in T1. The following year, no significant effects of treatments were found. Leaves and petioles for chemical analyses were sampled several times during the trial for sap and dry matter analysis. Few significant differences between treatments were found, but it appeared that sap analysis provides most information on the present uptake in leaves. However, neither leaf dry mass analyses nor sap analyses reflect yield potential when conditions during plant establishment are suboptimal.
24126104|Four alternatives to chemical control of Botrytis in strawberries were assessed, plant spacing, nitrogen fertilisation, post-harvest defoliation and finger harrowing. Increasing plant spacing generally caused reduced Botrytis incidence, but only in one of the two cultivars included and not always significantly. Increased application of nitrogen (0 to 80 kg N ha-1) caused increased incidence of Botrytis in one of three years of trial and had generally no effect on total yield. Post-harvest defoliation, though having a positive effect on total yield in some instances, only reduced the incidence of Botrytis significantly in one of three years, when the general level of infection was high. Finger harrowing, primarily being used in weed control as an alternative to chemical control, had a negative influence on total yield, and no consistent effect on Botrytis incidence was recorded. In all treatments, annual variation in Botrytis incidence, and differences among cultivars, were more important than variation among treatments. Thus, it is concluded that the use of less susceptible cultivars may be more important than the use of any of the cultural methods included in this experiment. Optimising cultural methods may, however, be of greater importance in susceptible strawberry cultivars with their greater potential losses due to Botrytis. Der Einfluss des Pflanzabstands, der Stickstoffdngung, der Nachernteentbltterung und des Striegeins wurde bei den Sorten 'Korona' und 'Elsanta' als jeweilige Alternative zur chemischen Bekmpfung von Botrytis bei Erdbeeren untersucht. Weite Pflanzabstnde reduzierten den Botrytisbefall, allerdings nur bei 'Korona' und hufig statistisch nicht signifikant. Steigende Stickstoffmengen (0 bis 80kg N ha-1) erhhten den Befall in einem von drei Jahren, hatten aber keinen Einfluss auf den Ertrag. Striegeln, das vor allem zur mechanischen Unkrautbekmpfung durchgefhrt wird, war ohne Einfluss auf den Botrytisbefall, reduzierte aber den Ertrag. Nachernteentbltterungen knnen den Ertrag erhhen, Botrytis wurde aber nur in Jahren mit sehr hohem Befall reduzieren. Die Unterschiede im Botrytisbefall zwischen den Jahren und den Sorten waren wesentlich grer als der Einfluss der vier Behandlungen. Deshalb ist der Einsatz wenig empfindlicher Sorten zur Reduzierung des Botrytisbefalls wesentlich entscheidender als die hier geprften Behandlungen. Beim Anbau von sehr anflligen Sorten ist die Optimierung der Kulturtechnik von groer Bedeutung.
24126666|In order to optimise light quality and quantity for plant growth, new photoselective greenhouse covering materials were developed containing different fluorescent pigments (Blue, Red1, Red2, Red3) in different concentrations. Excitation of all fluorescent pigments took place around 365 nm. Blue pigments showed fluorescence between 410480 nm, Red1 and Red2 pigments between 610630 nm and Red3 pigment between 600690 nm, while also major parts of the blue and green part of the spectrum were absorbed. Fluorescence effects of the plastic film prototypes were rising with increasing pigment concentration. However, fluorescent effects were small. While Blue pigments increased total PAR transmission with 13 %, Red pigments were found to lower PAR transmission. Only pigment Red3 was able to increase the red:far-red ratio with 10 %. The effect of the different film prototypes on strawberries 'Elsanta' was investigated in two experimental periods in 2002 and 2003. Blue fluorescent films seemed to be favourable for strawberry fruit production. Whether this was due to.the higher PAR transmission of the films or to a light quality effect cannot be concluded from the experiments. Blue fluorescent films caused strawberry production to increase with 11 %, mainly because of an increased fruit number. On the other hand Red3 fluorescent film delayed fruit production significantly. Total yield under Red3 was 10 % lower than under the Reference film. This effect was due to the lower PAR transmission of the film and the increased red:far-red ratio. Fruit colour was only slightly influenced by the different film prototypes. Fruits grown under Blue fluorescent films were slightly brighter but more saturated than fruits grown under the Reference film, which were darker but paler. Fruits grown under Red3 fluorescent film were apparently brighter but more saturated than fruits grown under the Reference film. In experiments in 2002, that was also observed for fruits grown under the Red1 and Red2 fluorescent film. Furthermore, dry matter and ash content of the fruits were determined, as well as the electric conductivity (EC) and sucrose concentration in the fruit sap. However, no significant differences could be detected. Fruits grown under Blue films were found to be slightly more acid (lower pH) than fruits grown under the Reference film, fruits grown under the Red films were found to be less acid. Since the sweetness to sourness ratio can be used as quality index, which fairly correlates with the taste quality, we can conclude that fruits grown under the Blue films taste less sweet than fruits grown under the Reference, Red1 and Red2 films. Several vegetative growth parameters were measured such as number of leaves, total leaf area, mean leaf area, leaf fresh weight, leaf dry weight and dry matter content of leaves, but no significant differences were detected. No correlation between vegetative growth parameters and fruit production was found. From these results it can be concluded that newly developed greenhouse films containing blue fluorescent pigments have good potentials to affect growth and development of Fragaria  ananassa 'Elsanta' positively, whereas red fluorescent films are less promising
24126684|The alteration of heavy and light yield in pistachio CPistacia vera L.) has been reported to result from the abscission of flower buds on heavily yielding trees during the summer, but the regulatory mechanisms involved in this bud abscission remain unclear. The present study was conducted to examine the role of nonstructural carbohydrates in flower bud abscission. Carbohydrates (glucose, fructose, sucrose and starch) content was measured in flower buds, leaves, fruits, current shoots, one year old shoots and roots of eight 'OFF' and eight 'ON' 30 year old pistachio cv. 'Owhadi' trees at monthly intervals between flowering and harvest. The flower bud abscission percentage was recorded every 15 day during seed growth. The amounts of soluble sugars and starch were relatively similar in many organs both in 'OFF' and 'ON' trees until 70 days after bloom. Thereafter, the amount of soluble sugars and starch in 'ON' trees declined in many organs during nut development. During the same period, various organs of 'OFF' trees began to accumulate greater concentration of soluble sugars and starch and surpassed the amount measured in those of 'ON' trees. There was a high and significant negative correlation between bud, leaf and root sucrose and fruit glucose and flower bud abscission. This indicates that soluble sugars in the many part of tree could be related to the alternate bearing in pistachio.
24126677|The effects of paclobutrazol, light emitting diodes (LEDs) and sucrose on inflorescence development in vitro were investigated in photoperiodically day-neutral Euphorbia millii. Paclobutrazol, a growth retardant, was mandatory to the shift from the vegetative to reproductive stage. Inflorescence development in the apical bud was observed after 2130 days of culture on MS media containing paclobutrazol. Different light qualities also influenced in vitro flowering of E. millii. Highest flowering percentage (90 %), number of inflorescences per plantlet, percentage of mature inflorescences and early flowering (days to first bloom) were observed in fluorescent light. Among the LEDs treatments, red light reduced the flowering percentage, whereas blue, red plus far-red and blue plus far-red LEDs stimulated flowering in vitro. Sucrose concentration also influenced the growth and morphogenic patterns of in vitro plantlets. Sucrose at 5 % enhanced inflorescence differentiation. The results indicate that inflorescence development of E. millii plantlets in tissue culture can serve as a potential model to study the role of paclobutrazol, LEDs and sucrose in the flowering process of a day-neutral plant that does not require external signals for flower induction. Also the technique described here can be used as an efficient method for production of early, synchronized and profuse flowering of E. millii pot plants.
24126344|Quality control of growing media mainly consists of chemical analysis and plant assays, which are time-consuming and expensive. Objectives were to test, if near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) is capable to predict several chemical characteristics and plant assay results for a large population of various peat-based growing media having a wide range of humification degrees and characteristics (n=320). Near-infrared measurements (including the visible range, 4002,500 nm) were done with fresh and with dried and ground growing media in order to predict their chemical characteristics and the results of plant assays using Chinese white cabbage (Brassica napus var. Chinensis). Spectral manipulations (taking 1st to 3rd derivative after baseline correction), cross-validation and a modified partial-least squares regression method were used to develop equations over the whole spectrum. Generally, NIRS predicted the chemical characteristics of growing media and the yields of fresh weight of Chinese white cabbage and rating better for fresh than for dried and ground samples. The pH and contents of total carbon and nitrogen, salt, P, K, mineral nitrogen, NO3-, NH4+ and the NH4+:NO3- ratio were predicted well: the RSC (ratio of standard deviation of laboratory results to the standard error of cross-validation) ranged between 2.0 (NO3-) and 4.4 (total carbon), the correlation coefficient (r) of measured against predicted values was higher or equal to 0.9 and the regression coefficient (a) was between 0.9 and 1.1. The good predictions of total carbon content may have been partly due to a clustering of data. Fresh weight yield of Chinese white cabbage was predicted well for the subpopulation of the growing medium with a degree of humification of H2 to H3 on the von Post humification scale (RSC=2.0, r=0.9 and a=0.9). The fresh weight yields for the subpopulations of growing media with H5 to H6 and with H7 were predicted satisfactorily (RSC =1.6 and 1.9, respectively). The prediction of the rating at harvest (overall plant impression) was satisfactorily for two subpopulations (RSC=1.7, r=0.8 and a=0.9 or 1.0) but unsatisfactory for the one with H5 to H6 (RSC=1.3). Overall, NIRS is sufficiently reliable to be used for standard chemical analysis for growing media and it is promising in predicting the results of plant assays.
24126884|The present investigation was conducted during two consecutive growing seasons in order to study the response of 'Flame Seedless' grape to exogenous salicylic acid (SA) application. The postharvest quality was studied in relation to pre-harvest salicylic acid spray (PSS) or/and post- harvest salicylic acid immersion (PSI) treatments. 'Flame Seedless' grape stored at 0 C for up to 30 plus 2 days at 20 C. The results showed that all SA treatments significantly increased the storage life of clusters. Furthermore, PSS + PSI treatment was effective in reducing weight loss, fungal decay, berry softening rate and rachis browning and maintained berry appearance. In addition, all SA treatments enhanced the increase of total phenolic content of berry skin after the shelf life period, while total soluble solids content (TSS) and titratable acidity (TA) did not vary in this concern. These results indicated that pre-harvest spray SA and postharvest immersion have potential for increasing storage life of 'Flame Seedless' grapes and maintaining their quality.
24126357|Effects of sucrose and maltose at the concentrations 0.5 and 1.0 M, availability of the phloroglucinol (PG) at the concentrations 0 and 10 M, and three levels of pH (5, 6 and 7) in a basic medium containing 1.63 mM H3BO3, 1 mM KNO3, 1.27 mM Ca(NO3)2.4H2O and 0.45 mM CaCl2 on the pollen germination in vitro of globe artichoke (Cynara scolymus L.) were studied. A separate experiment for each type of sugar was carried out. Analyses of percentages for pollen germination showed that main effects of sugar concentrations and availability of PG in the media were significant only in the sucrose experiment where 1.0 M sucrose and 10 M PG resulted in a germination of 49.8 and 38.9 %, respectively. The main effect of pH however was significant only in the maltose experiment where pH 5 resulted in 29.5 % germination while pH 7 gave only 15.3 %. Regarding the two factor interactions, statistical significance was found only for the combinations of sucrose concentrations  pH and PG  pH in the maltose experiment and sucrose concentrations  PG in the sucrose experiment. The interaction of all three factors was significant only in the maltose experiment where the highest pollen germination was 40.8 % for the combination of 0.5 M maltose  10 M PG  pH 6, whereas in the sucrose experiment interaction of the three factors was not significant and the highest pollen germination was 68.9 % for the combination of 1.0 M sucrose  0 PG  pH 5. Bursting of the pollen tube as well as elongation of the tube in a spiral manner occurred in all the media tested. Overall, more favourable germination was obtained from the sucrose media to which addition of phloroglucinol at 10 M concentration was useful. The factors influencing pollen germination of the globe artichoke and their relevance for its improvement were discussed. Untersucht wurde, welchen Einfluss Saccharose und Maltose (Konzentrationen 0.5 und 1.0 M), die Zugabe von Phloroglucinol (PG, Konzentrationen 0 und 10 M) und drei pH-Werte (5, 6 and 7), in einem Grundmedium mit 1.63 mM H3BO3, 1 mM KNO3, 1.27 mM Ca(NO3)2.4H2O und 0.45 mM CaCl2, auf die in vitro-Pollenkeimung von Gemse-Artischoken (Cynara scolymus L.) haben. Fr jeden Zuckertyp wurde ein separater Versuch durchgefhrt. Auswertungen der Pollenkeimung zeigten, dass der Einfluss der Zuckerkonzentration und der PG-Zugabe nur in der Kombination, 1.0 M Saccharose und 10 M PG mit 49.8 bzw. 38.9 % Keimung, signifikant war. Nur mit Maltose war bei einem pH von 5, mit 29.5 % Keimung (15.3 % bei pH 7) ein signifikanter Einfluss des pH-Wertes nachweisbar. Betrachtete man die Interaktionen zwischen jeweils zwei Faktoren, so wiesen nur die Kombinationen Zuckerkonzentration  pH und PG  pH im Maltose- sowie die Kombination Zucker-Konzentration  PG im Saccharose-Versuch statistische Unterschiede auf. Die Interaktion zwischen allen drei Faktoren war nur im Maltose-Versuch in der Kombination von 0.5 M Maltose  10 M PG  pH 6 und der damit erzielten Pollenkeimung von 40.8 % signifikant. Im Saccharose-Versuch war die Pollenkeimung bei der Kombination 1.0 M Saccharose  0 PG  pH 5 mit 68.94% zwar am grten, doch war dieser Wert nicht statistisch gesichert. Geplatzte oder spiralig wachsende Pollenschluche traten bei allen getesteten Medien auf. Alles in allem war das Saccharose-haltige Medium, dem Phloroglucinol in einer Konzentration von 10 M zugefgt war, fr die Pollenkeimung am geeignetsten. Die Faktoren, die die Pollenkeimung beeinflussen, und die Mglichkeiten ihrer Optimierung wurden diskutiert.
24126314|In Chinese Chestnut the reproductive biology is of great importance for nut development and production. In commercial chestnut growing the main problem is the high percentage of empty cupulae or nuts, resulting in not satisfactory yields. About the causes of this phenomenon, which has to be seen in the reproductive processes, not much is known. To elucidate this problem, investigations on the fertization biology in the early ripening cultivar 'Zaodali' and to some extent in the late ripening 'Jiujiazhong' and different pollinizers were undertaken in two experimental orchards in the province Yunnan, South China. The most important results are: The relation of male and female flowers and catkins was almost identical in the 3 experimental years, i.e. 45 male catkins to one female or 1000 male flowers to one female. Per bisexual catkin only one involucrum (female flower) was evident. 'Hand' and 'open pollination' resulted in a fruit set of about 95 % at the time, when the isolation bags were removed and about 90 % shortly before harvest. Under conditions of 'open pollination' the percentage of empty cupulae was lowest with 17,6 to 38 %, and more than 50 % of cupulae with one or two nuts were formed. In this investigation, pollen tube growth in vivo of Chinese Chestnut was first described at all. In almost all flowers less than 6 stigmas with pollen tubes were evident. Normally, one to two tubes could penetrate into the ovary containing 1218 ovules, and only one tube per flower did enter the ovule. Pollen tube growth from the stigma to the ovule lasted for about one month. In about 20 % of the female flowers with pollen tubes being evident in the ovules, no fertilization occurred. In these investigations important problems on fertilization biology of the cultivar 'Zaodali' and other could be elucidated: 1. missing fertilization, 2. degeneration of zygote, proembryo and young embryo, 3. delayed differentiation of ovules and female gametophyte, and 4. abnormal embryo sacs. Missing fertilisation has to be seen as the most important problem for nut formation. By hand pollination the percentage of empty cupulae or nuts could be reduced and the number of cupulae with 3 nuts increased. No apomictic embryo development was evident. Thus, to improve the production capacity adequate cross-pollination has to be assured by mixed lantings with other varieties and overlapping blooming times, since the effective pollination period in Chinese Chestnut is rather long. Bei der Chinesischen Esskastanie ist die Reproduktionsbiologie fr die Nussbildung und damit fr die Ertrge von groer Bedeutung. Ein wichtiges Problem beim Anbau dieser Obstart in China ist der hohe Anteil leerer Cupulae bzw. Nsse, die zu einer unbefriedigenden Erntemenge fhren. Die Ausbildung von leeren (tauben) Nssen wird als ein Problem der Reproduktionsbiologie angesehen. Zur Aufklrung dieser Fragen wurden befruchtungsbiologische Untersuchungen berwiegend bei der frhreifenden Sorte 'Zaodali', teilweise auch bei der sptreifenden 'Jiujiazhong' und verschiedenen Bestubersorten in 2 Versuchsanlagen in der sdchinesischen Provinz Yunnan durchgefhrt. Das Verhltnis von weiblichen und mnnlichen Blten bzw. der weiblichen und mnnlichen Ktzchen war in den 3 Versuchs jhren (19992001) praktisch gleich. So kam bei 'Zaodali' auf 1000 mnnliche Blten eine weibliche und auf 45 mnnliche Bltenktzchen ein weibliches bzw. zweigeschlechtliches. Je zweigeschlechtlichem Bltenktzchen war in der Regel nur ein Involucrum (weibliche Blte) vorhanden. Bei allen Bestubungsvarianten mit 'Zaodali' waren nach Entfernen der Isoliertten Fruchtanstze von ber 95 % und vor der Ernte noch von ber 90 % in allen 3 Versuchs jhren festzustellen. Zwischen den verschiedenen Vatersorten gab es im Fruchtansatz keine signifikanten Unterschiede. Bei Freier Abblte fiel der Anteil leerer Cupulae am niedrigsten aus, und er lag zwischen 17,6 und 38 %. Bei den Varianten 'ohne Bestubung' und 'Selbstung' war der prozentuale Anteil leerer Cupulae hher. Bei Freier Abblte enthielten ber 50 % der Cupulae eine oder zwei Nsse, und insgesamt war ungefhr die Hlfte der Cupulae leer. In der vorliegenden Arbeit wurde das Pollenschlauchwachstum bei der Chinesischen Esskastanie zum ersten Mal detailliert untersucht. Etwa 36 Tage nach der Bestubung konnten ca. 100 M lange Pollenschluche in der Narbenspitze beobachtet werden. Bei fast allen Blten waren in weniger als 6 Narben, also etwa der Hlfte, Pollenschluche vorhanden. In der Regel wuchs nur ein Pollenschlauch in eine Samenanlage ein, und je Blte drangen nur ein oder zwei Pollenschluche in Samenanlagen ein. Die Dauer des Pollenschlauchwachstums von der Narbe bis zu den Samenanlagen betrug ungefhr ei nen Monat. In etwa 20 % der weiblichen Blten mit Pollenschluchen in den Samenanlagen erfolgte keine Befruchtung. Diese Untersuchungen haben wichtige befruchtungsbiologische Probleme bei der Sorte 'Zaodali' und anderen aufgedeckt: 1. fehlende Befruchtung, 2. Degeneration von Zygote, Proembryo und jungen Embryonen, 3. verzgerte Differenzierung von Samenanlagen und des weiblichen Gametophyten sowie 4. abnormal ausgebildete Embryoscke. Die fehlende Befruchtung ist als das Hauptproblem bei der Nussbildung anzusehen. Durch Handbestubung konnte der Anteil leerer Cupulae bzw. Nsse reduziert werden. Eine apomiktische Samenentwicklung konnte nicht festgestellt werden. Um die Produktivitt bei der Chinesischen Esskastanie zu erhhen, ist es notwendig fr eine ausreichende Fremdbestubung durch Mischpflanzungen mit anderen Sorten und sich ausreichend berschneidenden Blhzeiten zu sorgen, zumal die effektive Bestubungsperiode bei dieser Obstart relativ lang ist.
24126860|Apples (Malus domestica Borkh.) are highly susceptible to fungi causing rots, especially in organic orchards where these rots cause major economic losses. Since the use of conventional fungicides is prohibited or restricted in many countries and in organic production, altogether, one alternative is to make use of bioactive compounds that can inhibit fungal growth on apples. Antifungal effects of alkylresorcinols (ARs), isolated from rye bran, were used in two different bioactive emulsions and tested in vitro as well as in vivo against two fungi, Penicillium expansum and Neofabraea perennans, which cause important storage diseases in apple. For both fungi, application of AR emulsions produced a 50 % reduction in mycelial growth and spore germination. The in vivo tests were carried out on woundinoculated fruit of foin apple cultivars, 'Aroma', 'Ingrid Marie', 'Frida' and 'Gloster'. Spraying the inoculated fruit with ARs decreased lesion area diameter caused by P. expansum with 1752 % and lesion area diameter caused by N. perennans with 3177 %, depending on the apple cultivar. For each fungus, the inhibitory effect of ARs was stronger in those apple cultivars that appear to have the highest level of disease tolerance, i.e. the smallest lesions on the control fruit. The level of sun exposure of the fruit had neither significant influence on the decay nor in the inhibitory effect obtained with the postharvest application of ARs.
24126462|The FIBRALUR wood fibre substrate has been successfully evaluated as substrate in tomato and melon culture. This material could replace the current hydroponic substrates like rockwool or perlite. The appearance of wood fibre bags for hydroponics culture deteriorates throughout crop cycles and it is a commercial disadvantage for farmers. In this work four new variants of wood fibre substrates that improve the disadvantage of original material have been evaluated and compared with coconut fibre and perlite. Experiment had been carried out for two tomato crop cycles in a greenhouse placed in Barasoain (Navarra). Seven substrates were used in a random block design. Measures of crop yield and quality as well as evaluation of substrates properties were carried out. Physical-chemical properties were determined at the beginning and at the end of each crop cycle. In the first cycle wood fibre substrates were significantly less productive than coconut fibre and significantly higher than perlite. No yield differences were obtained at the second cycle. With regard to substrates properties, an increase of water retention in wood fibre substrates and an increase of air volume in coconut fibre were observed throughout crop cycles.
24127676|The light harvest in plants depends on both incident light and light penetration into the plant mass. A diffuse (Sca) and a direct (Dir) light environment were designed with otherwise identical climates using controlled daylight gas-exchange chambers. The incident photosynthetic photon flux densities (PPFD) of Sca and Dir were identical but a significantly higher Photosynthetic photon flux fluence rate (PPFFR) was found in the Sca treatment, demonstrating the higher light diffuseness. The hypothesis was that increased diffuseness of light results in increased net photosynthesis and growth and the objectives were to quantify this for a chrysanthemum canopy in Sca and Dir. After four weeks the Sca-treated plants had 9% higher shoot dry weight, a higher number of lateral shoots and a larger leaf area than the Dir treatment. Despite the greater leaf area of Sca and increased internal shading, the average CO2 assimilation rate per canopy leaf area for Sca were 5% greater than Dir. We have shown that light measurements that include the proportions of diffused vs. direct light are important. Classic quantum sensors may not always give the most correct estimation of incident light in a canopy. Diffused light increased the growth of chrysanthemum leaves and shoots, and we suggest including measurements of both PPFD and PPFFR in experiments to secure that the effects of diffused light are clarified.
24126139|The aim of the research was to study the influence of different mulches (plastic and straw) and additional fertilization on the content of anthocyanins and vitamin C in strawberry (Fragaria x ananassa) 'Bounty' fruits. Experiments were carried out at the Institute of Horticulture of the Estonian Agricultural University in 2002 and 2003. The results of the experiments showed that fertilization and straw mulch compared to plastic mulch had significant negative influence on content of anthocyanins in strawberry fruits in both years. The best treatment for the health of consumers based on increased anthocyanin content would be growing strawberries with plastic mulch with only pre-planting fertilization. In 2002, liquid fertilizer increased vitamin C content in fruits grown with plastic mulch; and decreased the content of vitamin C in fruits grown with straw mulch. In 2003, strawberry fruits from plastic mulch variant also contained more vitamin C than those from straw mulch variant, but fertilization did not affect content of vitamin C in any variant. Ziel der Untersuchung war es, den Einfluss unterschiedlicher Mulchtypen (Folie und Stroh) und von Zusatzdngung auf den Anthocyan- und Vitamin C-Gehalt von Erdbeerenfrchten (Fragaria x ananassa) der Sorte 'Bounty' zu ermitteln. Die Untersuchungen fanden in den Jahren 2002 und 2003 am 'Institute of Horticulture of the Estonian Agricultural University' statt. Die Ergebnisse zeigten in beiden Jahren, dass Dngung und Strohmulch im Vergleich zu Folienmulch einen negativen Einfluss auf den Anthocyan-Gehalt der Erdbeeren haben. Unter dem Aspekt Verbrauchergesundheit ist, bedingt durch den gesteigerten Anthocyan-Gehalt, die Kultur von Erdbeeren auf Folie in Kombination mit einer Dngung vor dem Pflanzen die beste Variante. Im Jahr 2002 erhhten flssige Dnger den Vitamin C-Gehalt von Erdbeeren auf Folienmulch und minderten ihn bei auf Strohmulch kultivierten Frchten. 2003 enthielten die Erdbeerfrchte auf Folienmulch wiederum mehr Vitamin C als jene auf Strohmulch, allerdings hatte die Dngung in keiner Variante Einfluss auf den Vitamin C-Gehalt.
24126729|Two ancient, late-bearing apple varieties (cv. 'Diacciata' and 'Limoncella') were characterized using micromorphological, genetic and biochemical approaches, and by comparison with two commercial varieties, 'Gala' and 'Golden Delicious'. There were significant differences between the two varieties. Cryo scanning electron microscopy of frozen-hydrated leaves showed strong differences in epidermal cells, epicuticular waxes, stomatal structure, density, and leaf lamina internal tissues. We compared the two varieties at 21 SSR alleles; the mean heterozygosity and power of discrimination were 0.76 and 0.60, respectively. SSR loci GD 147 and GD 162 were sufficient to discriminate the two late-bearing varieties. 'Limoncella' had the most soluble solids, total phenolics, total flavonoids, epicatechin and chlorogenic acid. This cultivar also had higher acidity and peroxynitrite scavenging capacity. 'Diacciata' had the highest average weight, flesh firmness, catechin and caffeic acid content. These two ancient, late-bearing varieties demonstrate to be well adapted to the Mediterranean climate, in which they produce high-quality fruit with good organoleptic properties and high concentrations of desirable phytochemicals. Therefore, they may be of interest as a source of genes for breeding programs in Mediterranean basin.
24126500|Experimental studies in the past years recommend the use of sodium bicarbonate (SBC) as a fungicidal agent in prevention and control of apple scab disease. Generally, the research aim of previous studies was investigating the effects of SBC on spore germination and germ tube elongation of Venturia inaequalis [(Cooke) G. Wint.] fungus. However, this study monitors the accumulation of sugars and organic acids as well as individual and total phenolic compounds in apple fruit at technological ripening stage as affected by the use of SBC against Venturia inaequalis. Three different treatments were established: water-treated control, fungicide treated and 1 % SBC solution. The use of SBC demonstrated a reduction in the disease symptoms on apple fruits and leaves. The fruit quality parameters (mass and fruit firmness) did not differ among treatments. On the other hand, fruit treated with SBC contained lower amounts of total phenolics, flavonols and flavan-3-ols compared to fruit from the control treatment. SBC treated fruit also contained higher amounts of sugars than fruit from the control treatment.
24127046|Buckwheat (Fagopyrum sp.) is a well-known source of many health beneficial components such as starch, dietary fibres, proteins, and polyphenols such as flavonoid glycosides, especially rutin, and phenolic acids. Use of buckwheat for medicinal and health purposes demands that the content of these components are as high as possible. In this study, we have investigated the influence of species, variety, nitrogen (N) fertilization, and harvest time on the content and yield of polyphenols in buckwheat aerial parts and seeds. Experiments were performed as a joint project in both Denmark and Germany; however, all treatments were not repeated in both locations. Three varieties of normal buckwheat (F. esculentum) and one of tartary buckwheat (F. tataricum) were included in the experiments on the two locations. Experiments with high and low N fertilization were performed on both locations and in Germany combined with three harvest times of aerial parts. Seeds at maturity were only harvested and analysed in the Danish experiments. For aerial parts of both normal and tartary buckwheat from both locations there was no significant effect on the concentration of flavonoids with either increasing at high and low N-application. N-fertilization did not show a conclusive affect on the concentration of phenolic acids in the aerial parts as well. Concentration of rutin in aerial parts harvested at flowering stage in the Danish experiments varied between 1.7 and 3.9 % dry matter content (DM) in tartary buckwheat and between 2.2 and 2.4 % DM in normal buckwheat. Harvest time or development stage had a highly significant influence on the concentration of polyphenols in the aerial parts, as concentrations at harvest before flowering were up to four times higher than for harvest after flowering. In aerial parts the species/varieties did not differ significantly in content of polyphenols, except for kaempferol-3- O-rutinoside, which was higher in the tartary buckwheat 'Lifago' than in the other normal buckwheat varieties. Seeds of tartary buckwheat had a significantly higher concentration of flavonoids than normal buckwheat. In tartary buckwheat seeds, the kaempferol-3- O-rutinoside content decreased with increasing N-fertilization, but no significant effect on flavonoids in normal buckwheat seeds was found. Concentration of rutin in normal and tartary buckwheat seeds differed significantly and was between 0.03 % and 0.11 % DM and 1.4 % and 1.5 % DM, respectively.
24126635|Fruit yield, tree size, and trends in leaf-nutrient content (N, P, K, Ca, Mg, Fe, Zn, Mn, and Cu) have been studied for two years (20012002) in a mature orchard of mango trees (Mangifera indica L. cv. 'Keitt'), grafted onto four rootstocks: Gomera-1, Gomera-3, Turpentine, and 13/1. The fruit yield was the highest on Gomera-3 and lowest on Turpentine, the fruit being significantly smaller with Gomera-1 than the other rootstocks. In addition, the height, canopy volume and the trend of the trunk cross-sectional area (TCSA) were greater with Gomera-3. Higher macronutrient contents of cv. 'Keitt' were found on Gomera-3 and lower on 13/1 rootstock trees. A similar trend was found with the micronutrients but lower contents on Gomera-1. Thus, leaf-nutrient content correlated with fruit yield of cv. 'Keitt' on Gomera-3, indicating the effectiveness of this combination.
24134256|The highbush blueberry cultivar 'Duke' was subjected to controlled atmosphere storage up to seven weeks under following CO2 + O2 conditions (kPa CO2 + kPa O2): 0.03+21 (=air, control); 6+18; 12+18; 18+18; 24+18; 12+2 and 18+2 at 01 C storage temperature. The changes of ripening and quality parameters of the berries were monitored in 23 weeks intervals. In contrast to the experience with other fruits, blueberry fruits reacted to increasing CO2 partial pressure (>12 kPa) with loss of firmness, regardless of the height of O2 pressure. Only berries stored in 612 kPa CO2 maintained their firmness on acceptable values. The titratable acidity concentration of the fruits from the different storage treatments reacted in a similar way: Increasing CO2 partial pressure from 12 to 24 kPa resulted in an increasing loss of acidity. However, total soluble solids (TSS) of fruits did not differ significantly between all treatments in most sampling dates. Moreover, the respiration rate of fruits stored under increasing CO2 levels was significantly higher than that of air-stored fruits. Respiration quotient (RQ) values by these fruits reflected an enhanced consumption of organic acids as respiration substrate. Incidence of fungal diseases, mainly Botrytis cinerea, could be efficiently controlled by higher CO2 levels. In this respect, 6 kPa CO2 proved to be not high enough to retard the fungal growth. Weight loss of berries was minimized by all storage conditions. The overall judgment of the effect of storage conditions on fruit quality through the consumer sensory test revealed that blueberry fruits could be kept under air conditions at 01 C up to three weeks in acceptable condition. However, for a longer storage period up to six weeks, it is highly recommended to store highbush blueberries cv. 'Duke' under high CO2 levels up to 12 kPa without O2 reduction. Higher CO2 level more than 12 kPa can not be recommended due to negative impact on flavour, firmness, and acidity content. Kulturheidelbeeren der Sorte 'Duke' wurden whrend sieben Wochen bei folgenden CA-Bedingungen gelagert (kPa CO2 + kPa O2): 0.03+21 (=Luft, Kontrolle); 6+18; 12+18; 18+18; 24+18; 12+2 und 18+2 bei 01 C Lagertemperatur. Die nderung der Reife und Qualittsmerkmale der Beeren wurde im Abstand von 23 Wochen untersucht. Im Gegensatz zu den Erfahrungen bei der CA-Lagerung mit anderen Frchten zeigten Heidelbeeren einen Festigkeitsverlust mit steigendem CO2-Partialdruck (>12 kPa) in der Lageratmosphre, unabhngig von der Hhe des Sauerstoffgehalts. Nur bei Beeren, die bei CO2-Werten von 6 bzw. 12 kPa gelagert wurden, blieb die Festigkeit bei akzeptablen Werten. Die Konzentration an titrierbarer Sure in den Beeren verhielt sich hnlich: ber 12 kPa steigende CO2-Partialdrcke in der Lageratmosphre fhrten zu einem zunehmenden Sureverlust. Dagegen ergaben sich im Gehalt der Beeren an lslicher Trockensubstanz zwischen den verschiedenen Lagervarianten an den meisten Untersuchungsterminen keine signifikanten Unterschiede. Die Atmungsrate der Beeren, die bei steigenden CO2-Gehalten gelagert wurden, nahm ebenfalls im Vergleich zu den Kontrollfrchten in Luft deutlich zu. Der Atmungsquotient (RQ) deutete auf einen verstrkten Sureverbrauch als Atmungssubstrat hin. Der Pilzbefall, hauptschlich durch Botrytis cinerea, konnte mit steigenden CO2-Werten wirksam kontrolliert werden, wobei 6 kPa CO2 allerdings in der pilzhemmenden Wirkung noch zu gering war. Der Gewichtsverlust der Beeren konnte bei allen Lagervarianten minimal gehalten werden. Durch Verkostung der Beeren in einem Geschmackstest wurde eine Gesamtbeurteilung der Wirkung der Lagerbedingungen auf die Beerenqualitt vorgenommen. Dabei wurde festgestellt, dass die Luft/1 C-Kontrollfrchte bis drei Wochen bei akzeptabler Qualitt gelagert werden knnen. Eine lngere Lagerung von Kulturheidelbeeren der Sorte 'Duke' bis zu 6 Wochen Dauer ist nur bei hheren CO2-Werten von 12 kPa und ohne O2-Absenkung mglich. Bei CO2-Werten ber 12 kPa muss mit zunehmend negativem Einfluss auf den Geschmack, die Festigkeit und den Suregehalt der Beeren gerechnet werden.
24126177|During the summer, flowers produced in Mediterranean greenhouses suffer reduced quality, with short, thin stems and small buds. As crop ages, quality declines in winter as well. Farmers try to solve these problems with cooling methods such as shading or wet pads. Such treatments have harmful side effects and they are often ineffective. The present study tested long term effects of cooling methods on yield and quantity. It was found that during the first half of the summer common cooling methods had no beneficial effects. During the second half of the summer, especially with aged crops, these methods increased crop yields but not their quality. It has been suggested that the quality of flowers declines, especially in mid-summer, as result of deficient carbohydrate supply for each stem. The deficiency is produced by the big population of young flower shoots, which emerge at this time of the year, especially on aged crop. The effect of cooling treatments is weak when the young crop has a fresh transpiring canopy. When crops become older, the cooling treatments help the plants to produce longer stems. In summer, and especially in a system of old crops, a high percentage of the flower stems fail to reach marketable length, and then cooling methods increase the number of marketable flowers. Whrend des Sommers weisen in mediterranen Gewchshusern produzierte Schnittblumen eine schlechtere Qualitt mit kurzen, dnnen Stngeln und kleinen Knospen auf. Mit zunehmendem Pflanzenalter verschlechtert sich die Qualitt auch im Winter. Die Anbauer versuchen das Problem mit Manahmen wie Schattieren oder nassen Kissen zu lsen. Dies fhrt hufig zu schdlichen Nebeneffekten und ist hufig nutzlos. Die vorliegende Untersuchung prft die Langzeitwirkungen von Khlmethoden auf Ertrag und Quantitt. Dabei zeigte sich, dass bliche Khlmethoden in der ersten Sommerhlfte keine positive Wirkung haben. In der zweiten Sommerhlfte und besonders bei alternden Kulturen steigern diese Methoden die Erntemenge aber nicht die Qualitt. Es wurde vermutet, dass die Qualitt der Blten vor allem in der Sommermitte durch die Mangelversorgung der Einzeltriebe mit Kohlenhydraten hervorgerufen wird. Der Mangel wird durch die groe Anzahl junger Triebe, die besonders von alternden Kulturen zu dieser Jahreszeit gebildet werden, verursacht. Die Wirkung der Khlmethoden ist gering, wenn die jungen Pflanzen frisches transpirationsfhiges Laub haben. Wenn die Pflanzen lter werden, hilft ihnen die Khlbehandlung lngere Stiele zu bilden. Im Sommer, und vor allem in einem alten Pflanzenbestand, erreicht ein hoher Prozentsatz Bltenstiele nicht die vermarktungsfahige Lnge, in diesen Fllen erhhen die Khlmethoden die Anzahl vermarktungsfhiger Blten.
24126321|The effect of ultra low oxygen concentration on the storability of onions (Allium cepa L. var. cepa) was studied. Onions (cv. 'Sherpa', type Rijnsburger) had been kept during 9, 18,27 and 36 weeks at 2 C in atmospheres with 0.5, 1 and 21 % O2. Quality assessment was effected after each storage time and the following period of 3 weeks of shelf-life. After storage in 1 % O2, quality maintenance of the onion bulbs was much better than after storage in 21 % O2, which was characterised by less weight loss, reduced respiration intensity and inhibited sprouting in spring. Lowering the O2-concentration to 0.5 % in the storage atmosphere led to similar results concerning respiration intensity and sprout inhibition, but weight loss was accelerated during the last storage period between March and May. Some onion bulbs were covered by a slight mould layer after storage until March or May, which arose presumably from high humidity in some of the storage containers. In none of the bulbs internal injury or off flavour due to fermentation metabolism were noticed. Es wurde der Einfluss sehr niedriger Sauerstoffkonzentration auf die Lagerfahigkeit von Speisezwiebeln (Allium cepa L. var. cepa) untersucht. Die Zwiebeln (Sorte 'Sherpa', Typ Rijnsburger) wurden 9, 18, 27 und 36 Wochen lang bei 2 C in Atmosphren mit 0,5, 1 und 21 % O2 gelagert. An jedem Auslagertermin und nach einer dreiwchigen shelf-Iife"-Phase erfolgte eine Qualittsbeurteilung. Lagerung in 1 % O2 fhrte zu erheblich besserer Qualittserhaltung als Lagerung in Luft, was sich besonders an geringerem Gewichtsverlust, reduzierter Atmungsintensitt und verzgertem Austrieb im Frhjahr zeigte. Absenkung der O2-Konzentration in der Lageratmosphre auf 0,5 % fhrte zu hnlichen Ergebnissen bezglich Atmungsintensitt und Austriebsverzgerung, aber der Gewichtsverlust wurde in der Lagerzeit von Mrz bis Mai beschleunigt. Einige Zwiebeln zeigten leichten Pilzbefall nach Lagerung bis Mrz oder Mai, der vermutlich durch hohe Feuchte in den Lagerbehltem verursacht wurde. Es wurden weder innere Gewebeschdigungen der Zwiebeln noch Fremdgeruch auf Grund von Grungsreaktionen festgestellt.
24126469|We study firms' technical efficiency and associated implications for investment planning for Finnish greenhouse firms. A firm's technical efficiency is measured using intra-technology and inter-technology measures. A firm's investment strategies include investments in new energy-intensive assimilation light technology, new greenhouses to enlarge the scale of operation, or a combination of the two. Alternatively, a firm's strategy is not to invest. The central question is whether one technology outperforms another, controlling for firms' technical efficiency. The main result is that the new technology in and by itself does neither provide the highest technical performance nor maximise the net cash flow for all types of firms. Small family firms reach highest technical efficiency and maximum net cash flow using a traditional energy-extensive technology with current greenhouse area. For inefficient large firms, partially adoption of new energy- intensive technology is required to fully exploit efficiency potentials. If the large firms are efficient, the area expansion with assimilation lights increase the net cash flow too. The results also indicate that the more inefficient firms the minor price reduction they tolerate when investing in energy-intensive technology.
24126232|The effects of temperature (4 or 20 C) and photoperiod (9 or 18 h) on vegetative growth, cold acclimation and induction of dormancy in six red raspberry (Rubus idaeus L.) cultivars were studied in two experiments at different times of a year. Cane elongation and the number of new nodes were more strongly affected by temperature than by photoperiod. Photoperiod had very little effect on growth at 4 C, but short day reduced growth at 20 C. Cold hardiness of raspberry canes and buds was only affected by treatment temperature. In most cultivars deeper dormancy was induced at 20 C than at 4 C, and the effect of photoperiod was dependent on temperature. During spring experiment growth was more vigorous and the plants reacted more readily to changes in photoperiod than during fall experiment. However, greater cold hardiness and deeper dormancy were induced during fall experiment. Die Einflsse von Temperatur (4 oder 20 C) und Photoperiode (9 oder 18 h) auf das vegetative Wachstum, die Klteakklimatisierung, und die Induktion der Wachstumsruhe von sechs Himbeersorten (Rubus idaeus L.) wurden in zwei Versuchsreihen in unterschiedlichen Jahrezeiten untersucht. Das Rutenwachstum und die Anzahl neuer Nodien wurden wesentlich strker von der Temperatur als von der Photoperiode beeinflusst. Bei 4 C hatte die Photoperiode einen sehr geringen Einfluss, allerdings verminderte der Kurztag das Wachstum bei 20 C. Die Widerstandsfhigkeit der Ruten und Knospen gegen Klte wurde nur von der Behandlungstemperatur beeinflusst. Bei den meisten Sorten wurde bei 20 C eine tiefere Wachstumsruhe induziert als bei 4 C, und die Wirkung der Photoperiode war von der Temperatur abhngig. Bei der Untersuchung im Frhjahr war das Wachstum strker und die Pflanzen reagierten bereitwilliger auf die Wechsel der Photoperiode als im Herbst. Allerdings konnten im Herbst eine grere Widerstandsfhigkeit gegen Klte und tiefere Wachstumsruhe induziert werden.
24126681|Cucurbit species respond better to small tunnels than Solanaceous species but this declaration is not always true. Watermelon Citrullus lanatus (Thunb.) Matsum & Nakai on plastic mulch is well documented in North latitudes, however, small tunnels have not been well evaluated in Mexican conditions. The outlined hypothesis is that plastic mulch plus small tunnels will increase early and total yield. Watermelon plants were grown on plastic mulch alone or plus small tunnels to study their effect on air and soil temperature in growth, early and total yield. Treatments were: a) clear plastic mulch (C), b) black plastic mulch (B), c) B plus a Vispore cover of polypropylene (15 g m-2) (BV), d) B plus a white cover of perforated polyethylene (BW), e) B plus a clear perforated polyethylene (BC), f) B plus an Agribon cover of polypropylene (17 g m-2) (BA), and g) bare soil Control. Total yield was higher compared to the Control (p<0.05) by 46 t ha-1 (170 %), 43 t ha-1 (159 %), 42 t ha-1 (153 %), 36 (132 %), 36 t ha-1 (131 %), and 13 t ha-1 (49 %) on C, B, BW, BA, BV, and BC, respectively; the Control recorded 27 t ha-1. Results on this study indicate total yield is increased using soil mulch alone, while higher accumulation of degree days air and soil under small tunnels, had no positive effect in growth, early and total yield of watermelon plants.
24126368|Coriander green herb is popular in Eastern Turkey. Fresh herbage yield, essential oil content and essential oil composition in the vegetative parts of small-fruit coriander (Coriandrum sativum L. var. microcarpum DC.) grown in two different seasons (spring after autumn sowing and summer after spring sowing) and harvested at different growth stages were examined. The experimental location was at Tokat, north Anatolia, Turkey. The oil composition was identified by GC-MS. Fresh herbage yield regularly increased from the rosette stage to full flowering in both growing seasons. In the summer season (spring sowing) dry matter yield was lower as a result of a shorter vegetative period compared to the spring season (autumn sowing). Essential oil content was low in early growing periods and increased regularly in subsequent periods. (E)-2-decenal and decanal of aliphatic aldehydes are main components of the herb oil. (E)-2-decenal had higher percentages at pre-flowering stage and full flowering stage compared to the early growing stages. Considering the growing season, plants growing in the summer season had striking differences for some components such as (E)-2-decenal and methyl eugenol. Because of low herbage yield and high (E)-decenal contents, a potential irritant, spring periods is more suitable for cultivating coriander as fresh or dried herbal usage at the experimental site.
24126401|Agrobacterium rhizogenes and its rol-(root loci)-genes offer the opportunity to introduce new genes for traits contributing to quality improvement in floriculture. Several ornamental plant species have successfully been transformed with rol-genes causing changed root morphology termed root inducing (Ri)-phenotype. The typical Ri-phenotype is a compact plant with a characteristic leaf morphology and improved rooting ability. The Ri-phenotype is due to the effect of the four rol-genes rolA, rolB, rolC and rolD. These rol-genes are contributing to different morphological effects in the plant. The rol-genes can be introduced all together into the plants by natural transformation using wildtype A. rhizogenes, which presents a transformation method without applying recombinant DNA technology. The rol-genes can also be transferred to a plant as single genes or in different combination by recombinant DNA technology. This makes transformation with A. rhizogenes and its rol-genes a promising method in molecular breeding for creating new diversity in ornamental species. Therefore, the aim of this review paper is to review the uses of A. rhizogenes and its rol-genes for quality improvement in ornamentals.
24126704|Resistance of leaves and fruit clusters of Vitis vinifera 'Albario' clones to downy mildew (Plasmopara viticola) using non-grafted plants and plants grafted on 110-R. All the experimental plants had been growing since 1993 at the Misin Biolgica de Galicia, Spain. Both in terms of their leaves and clusters, some clones were more resistant to infection than others. Some were more susceptible to primary attack than secondary attack, while others showed the opposite characteristics. The degree of susceptibility to disease was independent of the rootstock used or indeed of whether the plant had been grafted or not.
24126158|The plant growth regulator prohexadione-Ca, which is an inhibitor of 2-oxoglutarate dependent dioxygenases, acts as an and-gibberellin and also reduces fire blight and scab of apple and pear. This beneficial side effect is related to a transient alteration of the flavonoid metabolism in apple and pear target tissues. This paper reviews the changes of the composition of flavonoids and phenylpropanoids occurring in leaves treated with prohexadione-Ca. An alternative flavonoid pathway is described leading to the formation of 3-deoxycatechins, which are uncommon in apple and pear. As biochemical prerequisites for this change in metabolism the substrate specificity of key enzymes is demonstrated. Der im Obstbau als Antigibberellin eingesetzte Wachstumsregulator Prohexadion-Ca hemmt 2-Oxoglutarat abhngige Enzyme. Als positiver Nebeneffekt von Prohexadion-Ca-Behandlungen wird bei Apfel und Birne eine erhhte Widerstandsfhigkeit gegenber Feuerbrand und Schorf beobachtet, was auf einer vorbergehenden Vernderung des Flavonoidstoffwechsels beruht. In diesem bersichtsbeitrag werden die Vernderungen der Zusammensetzung der Flavonoide und Phenylpropanoide dargestellt. Die Behandlung von Apfel- und Birnenblttern fhrt zur Bildung der fr diese Pflanzen ungewhnlichen 3-Deoxycatechine ber einen alternativen Biosyntheseweg. Als biochemische Voraussetzung fr diesen Weg wird die Substratspezifitt von Schlsselenzymen dokumentiert.
24126236|An estimate of water losses caused by canopy interception is required to calculate soil water balances or to parameterise models of crop water demand. A gamma-scanning technique allows to measure non-destructively and accurately as well as continuously over a short-time period the amount of intercepted water in a vegetable crop canopy. To evaluate intercepted amounts, spinach (Spinacia oleracea L. var. foliosum Hegi 'Boeing') canopies were treated with controlled amounts of irrigation water supplied by a sprinkler (to simulate rain and irrigation conditions) or a nozzle (to reproduce dewfall and wetting agents used in plant protection). For plant masses from 1.5 to 5.0 kg m-2, the storage of water was from 0.25 to about 1.00 mm when water amounts from 3 to 21 mm were applied by sprinkler. Using amounts of 0.38 and 0.75 mm water supplied by nozzle, the interception increased from 0.05 to almost 0.40 mm for spinach fresh masses between 0.25 and 2.25 kg m-2. Here, we assume that the accuracy of mass determination of spinach is equivalent to broccoli that was examined in a previous study by weighing broccoli plants at different growth stages. The error of measurement was estimated within <5 % for fresh plant masses of about 0.100 kg m-2, and within <1 % for masses >1.25 kg m-2. Die Bestimmung der Wasserverluste durch Interzeption an Pflanzen ist fr die Berechnung von Wasserbilanzen oder die Ermittlung von Parametern in Modellen zum Wasserbedarf bedeutsam. Die Anwendung der Gamma-Scanning-Technik erlaubt es, zerstrungsfrei, sehr genau und kontinuierlich in kurzen Zeitabstnden die Menge von Haftwasser an Gemsepflanzen zu messen. Spinatbestnde der Sorte 'Boeing' wurden mit definierten Mengen an Beregnungswasser mittels eines Regnersegmentes mit Tropfschluchen (zur Simulation von Niederschlag oder Bewsserung) oder mit einer Dse (zur Simulation von Tau oder Befeuchtung beim Pflanzenschutz) behandelt. An Pflanzenbestnden mit Massen von 1.5 bis 5.0 kg m-2 haftet eine Wassermenge von 0.25 bis etwa 1.00 mm, wenn 3 bis 21 mm mit dem Regnersegment ausgebracht werden. Bei der Ausbringung von Wasser mit der Dse in den Mengen von 0.38 und 0.75 mm liegt die Menge an Haftwasser bei 0.05 bzw. bei 0.40 mm fr Spinatbestnde mit Frischmassen von 0.25 bis 2.25 kg m-2. Es kann angenommen werden, dass der Fehler fr die Massebestimmung <5 % betrgt, wenn Pflanzenbestnde von etwa 0.100 kg m-2, untersucht werden und <1 % betrgt, wenn Bestnde von >1.25 kg m-2 untersucht werden, wie dies bei Messungen an Brokkoli zu verschiedenen Wachstumsstadien zuvor ermittelt worden ist.
24126301|Wild species could be useful for the genetic improvement of pepino (Solanum muricatum Aiton) fruit quality. We studied several agronomic and physico-chemical traits in accessions of A. muricatum (EC-37), wild relatives Solanum caripense (EC-40) and Solanum tabanoense (EC-26), and their corresponding interspecific hybrids. Interspecific hybrids involving EC-37 had yield and fruit weight intermediate between the cultivated and the wild parents, while yield and mean fruit weight of EC-37EC-26 were greater than those of EC-40EC-37. Dry matter content (DM) was higher in the wild accessions (>13 %) than in the cultivated pepino (<10 %). Wild species had similar (S. caripense) or lower (S. tabanoense) concentrations of total sugars than S. muricatum. EC-37 and EC-26EC-37 had similar relative concentrations of the soluble sugars glucose, fructose, and sucrose, while sucrose was predominant (>60 %) in the rest of the tested species and hybrids. Concentration of organic acids was much higher in EC-26 and EC-40 (total acids 2500 mg 100 g-1 and pH<4.0) than in EC-37 (275 mg 100 g-1 and pH=5.36), while interspecific hybrids had concentrations more similar to S. muricatum than to wild species. Citric acid was the predominant organic acid in the composition of all the studied accessions (>75 % of total acids). Ascorbic acid content of S. caripense and some interspecific hybrids was more than three times greater than that of S. muricatum. The results indicate that the studied wild species can be utilized to modify and improve the composition of pepino, especially by increasing acidity and ascorbic acid content. Wildarten knnten fr die Verbesserung des genetischen Hintergrunds der Fruchtqualitt von Pepinos (Solanum muricatum Aiton) ntzlich sein. Wir haben zahlreiche anbautechnische und physikalisch-chemische Eigenschaften in Akzessionen von A. muricatum (EC-37) und den verwandten Wildarten, Solanum caripense (EC-40) und Solanum tabanoense (EC-26), sowie den jeweiligen interspezifischen Hybriden untersucht. Die Erntemengen und durchschnittlichen Fruchtgewichte lagen bei interspezifischen Hybriden mit EC-37 zwischen denen der Kultur- und Wildart, wobei die von EC-37EC-26 grer waren als jene von EC-40EC-37. Die Trockenmasse (DM) war in Wildvorkommen (>13 %) hher als in Kulturpepinos (<10 %). Die Wildarten wiesen gleiche (S. caripense) oder geringere (A. tabanoense) Gesamtzucker-Konzentrationen auf als A. muricatum. EC-37 und EC-26EC-37 hatten hnliche relative Konzentrationen der lslichen Zucker Glukose, Fruktose und Saccharose, wohingegen die Saccharose in den restlichen Arten und Hybriden vorherrschend (>60 %) war. Die Konzentrationen organischer Suren waren in EC-26 und EC-40 (Gesamtsuren 2500 mg 100 g-1 und pH<4.0) hher als in EC-37 (275 mg 100 g-1 und pH=5.36), die Konzentrationen in den interspezifischen Hybriden lagen nher bei S. muricatum als bei den Wildarten. Zitronensure war in allen Vorkommen die vorherrschende Sure (>75 % der Gesamtsure). Der Ascorbinsure-Gehalt von S. caripense und einiger interspezifischen Hybriden war drei Mal hher als in S. muricatum. Die Ergebnisse weisen darauf hin, dass die untersuchten Wildarten zur Vernderung und Verbesserung der Zusammensetzung von Pepinos, vor allem im Hinblick auf einen hheren Gesamtsure- und Ascorbinsuregehalt, geeignet sind.
24126703|Calcium carbide (CaC2) and 2-chloroethylphosphonic acid (CEPA) are commonly applied in Thailand on wholesale markets and by the fruit processing industry to accelerate postharvest ripening of mangoes. Aiming at systematic investigation of the effects that the ripening accelerators exert on the development of chemical and physical fruit quality attributes, the impact of these agents and temperature on postharvest ripening of three Thai cultivars of prime commercial relevance were evaluated. Mature-green fruits of cvs. 'Nam Dokmai', 'Kaew', and 'Chok Anan' were ripened under daily monitoring for 7 days at 242 C and 332 C, representative for ambient temperature during fruit distribution in Europe and Thailand. At the applied dose (10 g kg-1 of fruit), CaC2 showed a significant effect only on firmness and peel colouration, except for peel colour of 'Nam Dokmai'. Mangoes treated with CaC2 were softer and therefore more sensitive to mechanical damage during handling and processing. Apart from minor differences in the contents of titratable acids of 'Nam Dokmai' and 'Kaew' observed at some days, no influence of the treatment with CEPA at a solution concentration of 200 mg kg-1 on fruit firmness, colour of peel and mesocarp, and chemical fruit quality was observed. When eating ripeness was defined based on the characteristic developments of total soluble solids and the sugar/acid ratio, the required ripening time was not affected by the chemical treatments, whereas exposure to the higher temperature resulted in shortening by one day. Consequently, the use of the ripening agents was not justified from an economic point of view. Depending on the physiological maturity at the time of application, they may even worsen overall fruit quality through different enhancement of external and inner quality parameters with exclusive stimulation of fruit softening and peel colour changes.
24126479|The rooting of stem cuttings of Protea 'Susara' (P. magnifica x P. susannae) was examined with regard to auxin application, basal wounding and position on the shoot. Three levels of indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) (0, 2000 and 4000 ppm) and four types of cuttings (terminal and basal cuttings from the last flush of growth and terminal and subterminal cuttings prepared with complete growth flush from terminal and subterminal flush of growth, respectively) were used. Terminal and basal cuttings from the last flush of growth treated with 4000 ppm of IBA can be employed for the propagation of this protea. The type of cutting did not have an overall effect on rooting (P > 0.05). Terminal stem cuttings prepared with complete growth flush can also be used for the propagation of Protea 'Susara'. The presence of auxin, or basal wounding, or a combination of both did not improve rooting significantly. Wounding negatively affected rooting. However, in similarly prepared subterminal cuttings, including the complete subterminal flush of growth, the presence of auxin (2000 or 4000 ppm of IBA) was required in order to achieve analogous results.
24126711|The aim of this study was to determine the effects of different rootstocks on yield characteristics and resistance capability against to Fusarium wilt, Verticillium wilt and Meloidogyne incognita in pepper cultivation. 'California Wonder' and 'Kandil' bell pepper varieties were grafted on 'Snooker F1', 'Dro F1', NGS and NGC rootstocks in the experiment. Nongrafted and selfgrafted plants were used as control. Grafted plants were cultivated in open field conditions with sterilized growth media. The experiment was conducted in randomized split plots design with three replications. Yield was increased significandy by rootstocks in infected plots and it was higher than control plants in uninfected plots. The highest yield was obtained from 'Kandil'  'Dro F1' combination in Fusarium oxysporium experiment, 'Kandil'  'NGS' combination in Verticillium dahlia experiment and 'California Wonder'  'Snooker F1' combination in Meloidogyne incognita experiment. Study showed that using of grafted plants was more effective than nongrafted and selfgrafted plants for obtaining resistance against to Fusarium oxysporium and Meloidogyne incognita by depending on rootstocks but, not against to Verticillium dahliea.
24126157|Prohexadione-Ca is a new generation growth retardant which inhibits dioxygenase enzymes activity mimicking 2-oxoglutarate and affecting both gibberellin and phenolic compounds metabolism. Several reports regarding the use of this growth retardant in apple and pear show the positive effects of prohexadione-Ca on yield and average fruit weight. On the contrary only a few trials have been performed regarding the effect of prohexadione-Ca on tree photosynthesis. This paper reports studies carried out over four-years on apple and pear to evaluate the photosynthetic efficiency of trees treated with prohexadione-Ca: whole-canopy experiments were performed on apple field trees, and leaf measurements on potted apple scions and field pear trees. Prohexadione-Ca positively affected leaf mass area and clorophyll content; net photosynthesis was often increased after application with the exception of a late spring application on vigorously growing trees. From these studies the positive influence of prohexadione-Ca on fruit weight and yield might be attributed to improved ecophysiological efficiency. Positiver Einfluss von Prohexadione-Ca auf Gaswechsel und Chlorophyll-Gehalt bei Apfelund Birnenbumen. Prohexadion-Ca ist ein Wachstumsregulator der neuen Generation, der die Enzymaktivitt von Dioxygenasen durch Imitieren von 2-Oxoglutarat hemmt und sowohl den Gibberellin- als auch den Phenol-Stoffwechsel beeinflusst. Zahlreiche Untersuchungen zur Anwendung des Wachstumhemmers zeigten bei pfeln und Birnen einen positiven Einfluss von Prohexadion-Ca auf Erntemenge und durchschnittliches Fruchtgewicht. Nur wenige Versuche befassten sich mit der Wirkung von Prohexadion-Ca auf die Photosynthese der Bume. Die hier vorgestellte Arbeit umfasst einen Zeitraum von vier Jahren, in dem mittels Kronen-Untersuchungen an ausgepflanzten Apfelbumen sowie Blattmessungen an getopften Apfelklonen und ausgepflanzten Birnenbumen, die Photosyntheseleistung von mit Prohexadion-Ca behandelten Apfel- und Birnbumen untersucht wurde. Dabei zeigte sich, dass Prohexadion-Ca eine positive Wirkung auf die Gre der Blattflche und den Chlorophyll-Gehalt hat. Die Nettophotosyntheserate steigerte sich hufig nach der Anwendung; eine Ausnahme stellte hierbei die Anwendung im spten Frhjahr an starkwchsigen Bumen dar. Unsere Untersuchungen zeigen, dass die positive Wirkung von Prohexadion-Ca auf Fruchtgewicht und Erntemenge auf eine verbesserte kophysiologische Leistungsfhigkeit zurckzufhren sein drfte.
24126879|Last decade radicchio become more popular vegetable, as a result, of the increasing demand of fresh-cut vegetables where radicchio contribute to the more attractive appearance. This study evaluate the growth season (normal and late transplanting, 31/7 and 12/9 respectively) of two radicchio cultivars ('Rosso di Chioggia' and 'Rosso di Verona') on their quality parameters (yield and chemical composition) as well as the storage potential of heads from one harvest. Cultivar had no significant effect on the yield or quality parameters of radicchio. On the contrary, yield as well as percentage of marketable heads significantly affected by growth season with drastic decrease for the late growth period. However, heads from the late growth period had higher content of SSC, nitrates, phenolics and antioxidant activity. The storage of radicchio heads at 0 C resulted in significant decrease on their visual quality after 7 days however after 21 days of storage heads were over the limit of marketability.
24126182|Two tepary (TB) bean lines (NE#19 and NE#5) were subjected to progressive water depletion and rewatering (RW). Under a condition of mild water depletion (MWD), the leaf relative water content (RWC) was similar in both lines and did not significantly differ from the respective well-watered (WW) seedlings. Line NE#19 under MWD conditions significantly increased stomata resistance and reduced transpiration rate compared to WW seedlings. Also it showed tendency towards reduction in the intercellular CO2 and elevated net photosynthesis. Its stem and root mass, specific leaf mass (SLM) increased while the portion of leaf area to 1 mg dry root mass (LA/RDM) decreased compared to the WW ones. NE#5 did not show such changes in gas exchange and plant growth parameters under MWD conditions when compared to the WW. Tocopherols (TPH) increased under MWD conditions but no changes occurred in malondialdehyde (MDA) and chlorophyll (Chl) content. Carotenoid and ascorbic acid (AA) contents in NE#19 and peroxidase (POD) activity in NE#5 increased. The rewatered (RW) seedlings showed a decline in TPH and MDA in both TB Unes. AA decreased while carotenoid content remained high in NE#19. POD activity increased in NE#5. The fluorescence parameter Fv /Fm was higher under both MWD and RW than WW conditions for NE#5 but the change in NE#19 was not significant. When subjected to severe water depletion (SWD), the RWC significantly decreased and both TB lines suffered severe dehydration in spite of 11 % higher RWC in NE#19 than in NE#5. Compared to the respective WW, both lines had a significant sharp reduction in plant growth (leaf, stem and root) and SLM. However, NE#19 significantly exceeded the WW in LA/RDM and R/S ratio when subjected to SWD. TPH contents in severely dehydrated leaves were 2 (NE#5) to 3 (NE#19) folds the level in the WW ones. NE#5 showed an increase in POD activity but AA contents decreased. In contrast, POD activity in NE#19 did not elevate while AA significantly declined. Chi and carotenoid contents decreased in both lines. While fluorescence parameter Fv /Fm decreased in both TB lines, the F0 showed stability only in NE#5. After the rehydration, NE#19 remained showing high level of TPH and MDA, a decrease in Fv /Fm and an increased Fo value. This occurred in spite of the elevated AA content. Distinctively NE#5 showed a recovery after rehydration and it is regarded as a more tolerant to withstand severe water deficit than NE#19. Zwei Tepary Bohnen-Linien (TB) (NE#19 and NE#5) wurden einem fortschreitenden Wassermangel ausgesetzt und danach wiederbewssert (RW). Unter moderatem Wassermangel (MWD) war der relative Wassergehalt (RWC) in beiden Linien hnlich und unterschied sich nicht von den optimal bewsserten (WW) Pflanzen. In NE#19 stieg der stomatre Widerstand unter moderatem Wassermangel (MWD) deutlich an, wobei die Transpirationsrate im Vergleich zu den optimal bewsserten Pflanzen reduziert war. Zustzlich waren Tendenzen hinsichtlich einer Abnahme des interzellulren CO2 und einer gesteigerten Nettophotosyntheserate zu erkennen. Stngel und Wurzelmasse, sowie die spezifische Blattmasse (SLM) stiegen an, whrend das Verhltnis der Blattflche zu 1 mg Wurzeltrockenmasse (LA/RDM) im Vergleich zu den optimal bewsserten Pflanzen abnahm. NE#5 zeigte nicht solch starke Vernderungen in der Gasaustauschrate bzw. in den Wachstumsparametern unter moderatem Wassermangel. Der Tocopherolgehalt (TPH) stieg unter moderatem Wassermangel an, keine Unterschiede traten jedoch im Malondialdehyd- (MDA) bzw. im Chlorophyllgehalt (Chl) auf. Die Carotenoid- und Ascorbinsuregehalte (AA) stiegen in der Linie NE#19 an, whrend die Peroxidase- (POD-) Aktivitt in der Linie NE#5 stieg. Die wiederbewsserten Pflanzen (RW) zeigten eine Abnahme in TPH und MDA in beiden Linien. AA nahm ab, whrend der Carotinoidgehalt bei NE#19 auf einem hohen Niveau blieb. Die POD-Aktivitt stieg in NE#5 an. Der Fluoreszenzparameter Fv /Fm war hher unter MWD und bei RW im Vergleich zu den optimal versorgten Pflanzen bei NE#5, jedoch waren die Vernderungen bei NE#19 nicht signifikant. Bei den Pflanzen unter starkem Wassermangel (SWD) nahm der RWC signifikant ab und beide Linien zeigten starke Dehydratationssymptome, wobei der RWC 11 % hher in NE#19 im Vergleich zu NE#5 war. Beide Linien zeigten eine signifikante Reduktion hinsichtlich der Wachstumsparameter und des SLM. NE#19 bertraf signifikant die WW hinsichtlich des LA/RDM-und des R/S-Verhltnisses unter SWD. Die TPH-Gehalte in stark dehydrierten Blttern lagen bis zu 2- (NE#5) oder dreimal hher (NE#19) im Vergleich zu den optimal bewsserten Pflanzen. NE#5 zeigte einen Anstieg der POD-Aktivitt, whrend die AA-Gehalte abnahmen. Hingegen stieg die POD-Aktivitt in NE#19 nicht an, whrend AA signifikant abnahm. Die Chl- und Carotenoidgehalte nahmen in beiden Linien ab. Whrend die Fluoreszenzparameter Fv /Fm in beiden TB-Linien sank, blieb F0 in NE#5 stabil. Nach Wiederbewsserung, zeigte NE#19 hohe Gehalte in TPH und MDA, eine Abnahme im Fv /Fm und einen Anstieg des F0-Wertes. NE#5 erholte sich strker nach Wiederbewsserung und kann als die tolerantere Sorte gegenber einem Wassermangel angesehen werden.
24126834|The influence of partial and total defoliation of grafted vines, performed during the period of intensive growth (July, August, September), on the accumulation of carbohydrates in roots, canes and rootstock was studied in Vitis vinifera L. ssp. sativa cv. 'Riesling', clone 239 grafted on the rootstock 'SO4', clone 31. Total defoliation in July resulted in the lowest percentage yield of grafted vines and the lowest weight of roots. In canes, total defoliation caused the lowest total carbohydrate content (TCC) in September, whereas in roots, the lowest TCC was established in August and September, in particular, owing to the reduced starch content. The most significant difference in the TCC between partial and total defoliation was observed in August.
24126285|Purple-fleshed Hylocereus genotypes with a considerable potential for the European fruit market were investigated with respect to fruit development in their natural habitat. Commonly commercialised genotypes in Central America such as 'Nacional', 'Orejona', 'Rosa' and 'San Ignacio' were analysed 17, 21, 24, 28 and 32 days after anthesis. Parameters evaluated were fruit dimensions, fruit and skin weight, skin and flesh firmness, total soluble solids, pH, titratable acidity and skin colour. Upon ripening, skin colour changed from green to red accompanied by a decrease in fruit weight, firmness and titratable acidity. The behaviour of the genotypes allowed to group them in two categories: 'Nacional' and 'Orejona' bearing smaller fruits with shorter ripening time belong to the first, whereas the second comprise the genotypes 'Rosa' and 'San Ignacio' with larger fruits and delayed fruit ripening. Moreover, comparisons between genotypes at the initial stage of colour change indicated that flesh firmness may be a suitable parameter to assess fruit maturity. From the findings obtained, fruits from 'Nacional' are considered more suitable for processing, whereas those from 'San Ignacio' may be preferred for fresh fruit consumption.
24126128|Shelf-life of celery is improved when stored under controlled atmosphere. However, as far as we know, there are very few reports about the effect of modified atmosphere packaging (MAP) on the quality and post-harvest life of green celery. Recommendations about plastic films that can be used are also scarce. The objective of this research was to study the effect of passive MAP on the post-harvest behaviour, chemical and sensorial quality changes and physiological disorders development of cold stored celery. Green celery stalks (cultivar 'Trinova') were packed in plastic bags made of either oriented polypropylene (OPP), low density polyethylene (LDPE) and macro perforated polypropylene as control (air) and stored at 4 C for 4 weeks. Under MAP conditions equilibrium atmospheres were reached after 10 days of storage at about 8-9 kPa O2 + 7 kPa CO2 and 8 kPa O2 + 5 kPa CO2 within OPP and LDPE bags respectively. Decay developed in control celery, affecting nearly 5 % of the stalks, and growth of internal leaves continued, lowering quality and reducing shelf life. However, both MAP inhibited these processes, decreased the development of pithiness and retained the sensory quality, reducing both the development of the butt end cut browning and chlorophyll degradation. OPP film resulted in a package atmosphere that differed most from air and celery stored in this material was rated to have an appearance most similar to that at harvest. Die Lagerfhigkeit von Sellerie kann durch Lagerung in kontrollierter Atmosphre verbessert werden. Allerdings gibt es nach unseren Informationen nur sehr wenige Untersuchungen darber, wie sich bei modifizierter Atmosphre (MAP) die Art der Verpackung auf die Qualitt und das Nachernteverhalten von Bleichsellerie auswirkt. Ebenso selten sind Empfehlungen fr geeignete Plastikfolien. Gegenstand dieser Untersuchung war, die Wirkung von passiver MAP hinsichtlich des Nachernteverhalten, der nderungen in den chemischen und sensorischen Eigenschaften und der unerwnschten physiologischen Prozesse bei khlgelagerter Sellerie zu untersuchen. Grne Selleriestngel der Sorte 'Trinova' wurden entweder in Polypropylen (OPP) oder leichtem Polyethylen (LDPE) und als Kontrolle in Polypropylen-Lochfolie verpackt und bei 4 C 4 Wochen gelagert. Unter MAP-Bedingungen wurde die Gleichgewichtsatmosphre nach 10-tgiger Lagerung in OPP-Tten mit etwa 8-9 kPa O2 + 7 kPa CO2 bzw. in LDPE-Tten mit 8 kPa O2 + 5 kPa CO2 erreicht. Beim Kontrollsellerie waren annhernd 5 % der Stngel angefault, die inneren Bltter wuchsen weiter und verminderten so die Qualitt und Haltbarkeit beim Endverbraucher. Beide MAP-Folien hemmten diese Prozesse, verminderten die Entwicklung von Markigkeit und konservierten die sensorische Qualitt, in dem sie sowohl das Verbrunen der Schnittflchen als auch den Chlorophyllzerfall reduzierten. OPP-Folie fhrte zu einer Atmosphre im Beutel, die sich am meisten von der Kontrolle in Polypropylen-Lochfolie unterschied. In dieser Folie verpackter Sellerie wurde hinsichtlich uerer Merkmale annhernd wie frisch geernteter eingestuft.
24126247|Micropropagated 'Red Fuji' apple plants undergone three levels of water stress were studied to assess the effects on sorbitol metabolism. Sorbitol was the major soluble carbohydrate (47.5 % in leaves and 65.0 % in roots, respectively) and accumulated under treatments of mild stress (MIS) or moderate stress (MOS), while it decreased under severe stress (SES) treatment. Aldose-6-phosphate reductase (A6PR) activity increased rapidly, but the correlation between sorbitol content and A6PR activity was non significant and the positive effect of it on sorbitol accumulation was limited under MOS treatment in apple leaves; significant negative correlations were obtained between sorbitol content and sorbitol dehydrogenase (SDH) activity, and only SDH had a significant direct effect on sorbitol content under MIS and MOS treatments; the regulatory enzymes in the sucrose metabolism affected sorbitol content mainly through the indirect effects of ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (ADPGPPase) and amylase; and the rapid decreased of ADPGPPase activity and increased of amylase activity would be benefited for increase of sorbitol synthesis. No A6PR activity was detected in apple roots where SDH activity was present, the increase of sorbitol contents in roots under MIS and MOS treatments were caused by the more proportion of assimilates distributing and inhibition of sorbitol degradation. Reason of the decreased sorbitol contents under severe stress might be resulted by inhibition of both numerous synthetic and degrading enzymes of carbohydrates.
24126398|Climate effects on plum yield and prediction of yield in commercial plum production were studied. Data were collected from fruit co-operations in three regions in the fjord district of western Norway. Relative yield levels as percentage of a moving average for the years 19622002 were compared to meteorological data. In the northernmost region yield level varied more than in the two other regions. Yield level was positively correlated to several climatic parameters the year previous to the fruiting year; one hour more sun in July gave 0.3 % higher yield the next year in Hardanger. Yield level was negatively correlated to high temperatures in January and February; in the Sogn region 1 C higher February maximum temperature gave 6.9 % lower yield. In the northernmost region warm and dry weather in May was crucial for high yield. For all districts climate factors before June 1 had a large influence on yield level, making it possible to develop models for predicting yield levels. Multiple regression models with meteorological variables as predictors were developed for predicting yield per June 1, and for explaining yield after harvesting. When predicting relative yield level as a percentage of an average, the models can be applicable for the growing and the marketing of fruit.
24126832|Two cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.) cultivars, including the shade-susceptible cv. 'Jingyan 2' and shade-tolerant cv. 'Deltastar', were compared for the changes in gas exchange and chlorophyll a fluorescent parameters during rapid dehydration of mature leaves detached from seedlings grown for 20 days under low light (PFD: 7585 mol m-2 s-1). During the continuous water loss process after separation from plants, leaf net photosynthesis rate (Pn), transpiration rate (Tr), efficiency of excitation energy captured by open photosystem II (PSII) reaction centre (Fv/Fm), quantum efficiency of PSII photochemistry (PSII) and partitioning proportion for photochemical reaction of light energy absorbed by PSII (P) gradually decreased, the antennae heat dissipation (D) and reaction centres dissipation of light energy absorbed by PSII (Ex) gradually increased, and the maximal photochemical efficiency of PSII (Fv/Fm) remained largely stable. The declining of the photosynthetic parameters was faster and lasted shorter period than the fluorescent parameters. The impact of dehydration was much more severe in the control plants grown under normal light intensity, which indicates that plants grown under low light had improved tolerance to subsequent water deficient stress. Between the two cultivars both exposed to low light, cv. 'Deltastar' was able to maintain more stable chl fluorescence, photosynthetic parameters and the critical water content during rapid dehydration process. These characteristics may account for the better tolerance to shade and drought condition of 'Deltastar' compared to 'Jingyan 2'.
24126433|Aim of the study was to describe an in vitro method for evaluation of iron chlorosis responses of grapevine (Vitis sp.) genotypes. Nodal green segments of three rootstocks, 'Fercal', '1103 P', '1613 C' and one table grape cultivar, 'Perlette' were cultured under in vitro conditions. Three iron concentrations (9,18, 36 mg L-1 FeNaEDTA) alone and their combining effects with 840 mg L-1 NaHCO3 were compared in the MS medium supplemented with 4.4 M BA. Grapevine genotypes were examined for leaf chlorosis rating scales, total chlorophyll content; shoot dry weights of the plantlets, and total and active Fe concentrations of leaves. Increased bicarbonate addition had negative effects on the iron uptake and development of plants. Chlorophyll content and dry weights of shoots did not distinguish the genotypes for their responses to iron deficiency. The total and active iron content of the tested genotypes ranked according to their previously common known degree of tolerance to lime-induced chlorosis. 'Fercal', 'Perlette' and '1103 P' showed tolerance, respectively and '1613 C' was susceptible. The most suitable parameters for determining the genotype responses to iron chlorosis were the chlorosis rating scales from 1 to 5 and total and active Fe concentrations of the leaves. Among the different growing media used the 9 mg L-1 FeNaEDTA with 840 mg L-1 NaHCO3 seems to be better for determination of genotypic differences. The results showed that the in vitro method described in this study could practically be used in viticulture to screen the genotypes for their Fe deficiency responses to calcareous soils in shorter times.
24126712|A milky discolouration of red-pigmented apple varieties such as 'Redprince' and 'Elstar' from Northern Germany was due to the abnormal development of air spaces in hypodermal tissues. This physiological condition was identified as scarf skin, which is well-known in the United States but is reported here for the first time from Europe. White haze, caused by a superficial colonisation of the apple cuticle by mycelial yeasts, was also observed in Northern Germany, and two Tilletiopsis spp. were isolated and characterised. The occurrence of scarf skin and white haze in Northern Germany is discussed with reference to other fruit producing regions.
24126721|Irregular yields of Prunus cerasus 'Stevnsbaer Birgitte', which is the preferred sour cherry cultivar in Denmark, have been proposed to be a result of freeze injury to floral tissues. This study determined floral mortality of P. cerasus 'Stevnsbaer Birgitte' and the supposedly more cold hardy P. cerasus 'Kelleriis 16' under natural conditions, and investigated seasonal changes in flower bud cold hardiness of 'Stevnsbaer Birgitte'. In a cold winter with unusual low temperatures in December, the injury rate of buds of 'Stevnsbaer Birgitte' was significantly higher than that of 'Kelleriis 16', confirming that buds of the latter cultivar are considerably more cold hardy than buds of 'Stevnsbaer Birgitte'. The majority of frost injuries in buds of 'Stevnsbaer Birgitte' occurred mid-winter, but dehardening appeared fast, indicating that the critical injury times of buds of 'Stevnsbaer Birgitte' include both the mid-winter and dehardening phases.
24126857|As the home of numerous grape genotypes, Turkey is one of the major centers of viniculture genetic material in the world. 'Merzifon Karasi' (Vitis vinifera L.) is one of the most valuable red wine grape cultivars in Turkey. However, despite the variety's relative age, 'Merzifon Karasi' has yet to be tested on different rootstocks. Therefore, this study was conducted to determine the effects of different rootstocks on the growth characteristics of 'Merzifon Karasi' scion. Growth parameters (shoot length (cm), shoot diameter (mm), internode length (cm), total and unit leaf area (cm2), root length (cm), root scale (04) and root number) were calculated and carbohydrate content (%) of the grafted grapevine shoots, trunk and roots analysed for 9 different rootstocks. Significant differences (P < 0.01) were found among rootstocks. 8B and Rupestris du Lot rated best in terms of root length, root scale and root number (P < 0.01). Highest shoot length, shoot diameter (P < 0.01) and internode length were obtained, respectively, with the 110R, 8B and Rupestris du Lot rootstocks (P < 0.05). Rupestris du Lot also produced the grapevines with the highest total leaf area per plant and main shoot, whereas the grapevines grafted on 8B had the highest unit leaf area (P < 0.01). Sugar, starch and carbohydrate contents (%) of the different plant parts also varied significantly by rootstock (P < 0.01), with the highest root carbohydrate content measured in the 5C (22.4 %) rootstock, and the highest trunk and shoot carbohydrate content measured in the 110R (12.1 and 13.4 %, respectively). In sum, the study found the best rootstocks for 'Merzifon Karasi' to be 8B, Rupestris du Lot and 110R in terms of root and shoot growth, whereas 'Merzifon Karasi' grape grafted onto 110R and 5C rootstock had the highest carbohydrate contents.
24126784|"Crop science" along with an accepted definition of "science" may be generally defined as "the traditional existence of knowledge and the process of methodically performed, principally reproducible knowledge, elaborated by knowledge production." With regard to its content crop science is considered composed of the sub-disciplines eco-engineering, natural sciences and system science. For many decisions economic aspects also have to be taken into account. Knowledge production and its development in eco-engineering and system science is described primarily by research methodology, in natural sciences by the history of fundamental crop science related insights. Accumulated knowledge as a whole is estimated by analysing manuals on vegetable production in German language in the period of 1530 to 2003. After a long precursor period crop science started in Germany about 1800, initiating a rapid development of experimental methodology and technical literature. From the middle of the 20th century onward a strengthened consideration of eco-physiological knowledge is observed, and from the end of the 20th century systems scientific knowledge. Thus both, quantity and quality of knowledge were expanded and improved, as well as its structure and presentation. The problems, limitations and consequences of this process are discussed. Entsprechend einer anerkannten Definition der Wissenschaft wird auch die Pflanzenbauwissenschaft als berlieferter Bestand des Wissens, und der Prozess methodisch betriebener, prinzipiell nachvollziehbarer Erkenntnisarbeit definiert. Pflanzenbauwissenschaft beruht auf einem Kompositum aus ko-Ingenieurwissenschaft, Natur-wissenschaft und Systemwissenschaft. Sie hat bei vielen Entscheidungen auch konomische Aspekte zu bercksichtigen. Die Entwicklung der Erkenntnisarbeit wird fr die ko-Ingenieur- und Systemwissenschaft primr ber die Forschungsmethodik, fr die Naturwissenschaften ber die Geschichte fundamentaler, pflanzenbaulich relevanter Erkenntnisse beschrieben. Das akkumulierte Wissen wird durch die Analyse von Gemsebaubchern in deutscher Sprache in der Spanne von 15302003 beurteilt. Nach einer langen Periode der Wegbereitung wird der Beginn der Pflanzenbauwissenschaft auf etwa 1800 datiert. Sie lste eine rasante Entwicklung der experimentellen Methodologie aus, die ab Mitte des 20. Jahrhunderts von ko-physiologischem Wissen und seit dem Ende des 20. Jahrhunderts durch systemwissenschaftliches Wissen ergnzt wurde. Parallel verbesserten sich Quantitt und Qualitt des Wissens, seine Strukturierung und Prsentation. Die Probleme und Grenzen dieses Prozesses sowie die Schlussfolgerungen werden diskutiert.
24126388|Mn deficiency is a common nutritional disorder affecting the growth, yield and fruit quality of citrus plants. Twenty-three-year-old 'Washington Navel' orange (Citrus sinensis L.) trees budded onto sour orange (C. aurantium L.) rootstock and grown in two sites (I and II) of an orchard were used. Based on the leaf Mn concentrations, 20 Mn deficient and 10 non Mn deficient trees were selected on 26 January 2000. The trees were separated in 6 groups; each one consisted of 5 trees with similar Mn status. The mean Mn concentrations in the leaves of the groups 1,2,3,4,5, and 6 were 8.8, 10.5, 11.2, 13.8, 18.3, and 19.8 mg kg-1 dry weight (d.w.), respectively. The trees of the groups 14 were grown in the site I, while those of the groups 5 and 6 in the site II of the orchard. One tree group in each orchard site (site I: group 3; site II: group 6) was not sprayed with Mn and used as a control, while the trees of the other groups (1, 2, 4 and 5) were sprayed on 06 February 2000 with MnSO4H2O (800 mg l-1 Mn). From 18 February 2000 until 19 January 2001, 11 leaf samplings were conducted to monitor the Mn status of the trees. The concentrations of Mn in the leaves of the groups 3 and 6 (controls) were almost constant and presented no significant differences among the samplings. With regard to the Mn treated trees, at the first post-treatment sampling (18 February 2000), the leaf Mn levels were higher by 16.525.1 mg kg-1 d.w., respectively, in relation to their pre-treatment status. At the last sampling (19 January 2001), the Mn status of the trees was also improved by 4.57.5 mg kg-1 (d.w.), compared to their pre-treatment status. Overall, when the concentration of Mn in the leaves is equal or higher than 14 mg kg-1 d.w., before the spray Mn treatment, only one application of MnSO4H2O (800 mg l-1 Mn) on February is sufficient to cover the Mn needs of the trees for a whole year. In other cases (leaf Mn levels equal or lower than 13 mg kg-1 d.w.), the trees should be re-sprayed on July or August.
24126238|A closed hydroponic system (Porous Tube Plant Nutrient Delivery System) combined with a horizontal uniaxial clinostat has been designed and built-up to grown leafy vegetables under simulated microgravity conditions. Two research activities were carried out to investigate the effects of clinorotation on growth, yield, and quality of rocket seedlings (Eruca sativa Mill.) and lettuce plants (Eactuca sativa L.), which may constitute a source of healthy fresh food for the astronauts during space missions. The percentage of germination of rocket was affected by clinorotation with the highest value observed in the control treatment. The seedling fresh weight of the control treatment, was 19 % higher compared to that of the clinorotation treatment while the opposite trend was observed for chlorophyll a/b ratio. Clinorotation did not influence the quality (total carbohydrates, triglycerides, carotenoids and vitamin C) of the rocket seedlings. Shoot fresh and dry weight, leaf area, specific leaf dry weight, root dry weight and shoot:root ratio were lower in the clinorotated lettuce plants than those grown in the control treatment. Quality parameters (chlorophyll, total carbohydrates and vitamin C) of lettuce plants were negatively affected by clinorotation. Lettuce genotype comparison under simulated microgravity showed that 'Mortadella di primavera' should be adopted for space experiments due to the better growth and productivity. Es wurde ein geschlossenes hydroponisches System (Pflanzennahrung ber einen porsen Schlauch) kombiniert mit einem einachsigen Klinostaten entwickelt und gebaut, um Blattgemse unter simulierter Mikro-Schwerkraft zu kultivieren. In zwei Versuchen wurden die Wirkungen der Klinostaten-Rotation auf das Wachstum, den Ertrag und die Qualitt von Rukola-Smngen (Eruca sativa Mill.) und Kopfsalatpflanzen (Eactuca sativa L.), die fr Astronauten auf Weltraummissionen eine potentielle Quelle fr Frischnahrung darstellen, untersucht. Die Keimrate von Rukola wurde durch die Klinostaten-Rotation beeinflusst und der hchste Wert bei der Kontrolle erzielt. Das Smlingsfrischgewicht der Kontrolle war 19 % hher als beim Klinostaten, wohingegen beim Chlorophyll a/b-Verhltnis der gegenstzliche Trend beobachtet wurde. Die Klinostaten-Rotation hatte keinen Einfluss auf die Qualitt (Gesamtkohlenhydrate, Trigyceride, Karotinoide und Vitamin C) der Rukola-Smlinge. Das Frisch- und Trockengewicht der Sprosse, die Blattflche, das spezifische Trocken- und Wurzeltrockengewicht sowie das Spross:Wurzel-Verhltnis war bei den Salatpflanzen auf dem Klinostaten niedriger als bei den Kontrollpflanzen. Die Qualittsparameter (Chlorophyll, Gesamtkohlenhydrate und Vitamin C) der Salatpflanzen wurden durch die Klinostaten-Rotation negativ beeinflusst. Ein Vergleich unterschiedlicher Salatsorten in simulierter geringer Schwerkraft zeigte, dass 'Mortadella di primavera' auf Grund von besserem Wachstum und Qualitt fr die Weltraumexperimente ausgewhlt werden sollte
24126618|The appropriate timing and intensity of electro-degradation (ED) of nutrient solution to recover strawberry autotoxicity in closed hydroponic system was investigated during spring 2010 in glasshouse of Experimental Research Center for Biological Resources Science, Shimane University. In growth chamber bioassay, growth of strawberry plantlets were inhibited gready in non-renewed nutrient solution due to the accumulation of autotoxic root exudates compared to nutrient solution renewed weekly (control). Plants grown in non-renewed nutrient solution electro-degraded weekly intervals also showed growth inhibition whereas biweekly ED improved its growth. This growth inhibition in weekly ED nutrient solution was found to be attributed by the degradation Fe-EDTA (about 10 %) and low concentration of Ca2+ in culture solution. Electrolysis durations were evaluated in without plant experiments. It was found that low pH (3.13) and increased temperature were two major constraints for longer ED duration (24 h). Therefore, considering electric voltage, electrical conductivity (EC) and pH, shorter ED duration (2 h) was selected for further experiments. 2 h ED treatment of nutrient solution certainly can save energy and be feasible for greenhouse applications. In greenhouse, strawberry plants were grown in Wagner's pot hydroponic system where nutrient solutions were either renewed four weekly or not-renewed entirely. The non-renewed nutrient solutions were electro-degraded either biweekly or four weekly. Growth and yield of strawberry plants was decreased in non-renewed nutrient solution and its biweekly ED treatment but it was improved in non-renewed nutrient solution when ED applied at four weeks intervals. It was found that fruit yield of strawberry plant was completely recovered ( 99 %) in non-renewed nutrient solution with ED at every four weeks, whereas, in our previous study the recovery was 71 % compared to renewed nutrient solution. Therefore, we recommend application of ED to non-renewed nutrient solution for 2 h at every four weeks intervals to avoid autotoxicity in strawberry in a closed hydroponic system.
24126474|Plant water relations, gas exchange parameters and stomata morphology of potted white asparagus (Asparagus officinalis L.) plants were investigated to evaluate the degree of their drought resistance. Two cultivars, 'Gijnlim' and 'Grolim', with high commercial relevance in Germany and with contrasting yield and drought susceptibility were examined. Exclusively the pore length of the kidney-shaped stomata differed but stomata density was similar between the two lines. Stomatal pore length measured on 'Grolim' plants was nearly twice that of 'Gijnlim'. Drought stress was gradually induced by withholding irrigation from one-year old fully developed asparagus plants grown under well-watered conditions in 15 L pots in a greenhouse. During desiccation, predawn water potential of plant (PD) and soil (soil), and midday gas exchange of cladophylls were determined. Under well-watered conditions (soil> -8 kPa), plant of 'Grolim' showed higher net assimilation rates (A) and leaf conductance (gH2O) than 'Gijnlim' plants. Intrinsic water use efficiency (WUEint) of unstressed plants did not differ between the cultivars. Only 'Grolim' plants reduced gH20 in response to increased vapour pressure deficit between leaf and air (VPDal), under well-watered conditions. Water shortage rather than VPDal triggered stomatal control. Under severe soil drought conditions (soil< -50 kPa), WUEint of 'Grolim' was higher than that of 'Gijnlim' and gH2O was lower. Under air and soil drought stress, the more sensitive stomatal regulation of 'Grolim' indicates a more efficient protective mechanism against detrimental water loss. These results suggest that 'Gijnlim' employs a strategy of drought tolerance whereas 'Grolim' employs one of drought avoidance. For productivity purposes, water management of 'Grolim' is advantageous due to lower susceptibility to drought stress and higher net photosynthesis under optimal conditions.
24126112|The potential for break-down of organic substrates by the microflora inhabiting the nutrient solution effluent from closed systems was studied in a fruit-bearing tomato crop grown in small scale systems adopting nutrient film technique with respect to selected phenolic acids (benzoic acid, ferulic acid, p-hydroxybenzoic acid, salicylic acid, vanillic acid) and eleven substrate groups expected in rhizodeposition (carbohydrates, amino acids, carboxylic acids, polymers, amines, amides, alcohols, aromatic compounds, brominated compounds, esters, phosphorylated compounds). Factors essential for mediating the break-down (microflora, oxygen content and demand, total organic carbon, pH, electrical conductivity) were described for the studied growing system. Phenolic acids added to the nutrient solution or tap water samples and followed during 54 h, disappeared after a short lag phase when incubated in the colonized effluent, whereas when incubated in non-sterile tap water, the tested phenolic acids were significantly more persistent. Of the substrate groups assessed using Biolog GN-panel, carbohydrates, amino acids, carboxylic acids, polymers and amines were the most consistently utilized substrates during an observation period of 96 h. However, not all of the compounds on the GN-panel included in these classes were metabolized. Remaining six substrate groups were utilized inconsistently and beyond the threshold of 0.5 absorbance units. Viable count of all scrutinized microbial groups (general bacterial and fungal flora, fluorescent pseudomonads, actinomycetes, Trichoderma) was higher during the second out of two years of observation. Passage through the growing system indicated an increase in pH and electrical conductivity as compared to set values. Oxygen saturation and  content decreased from the first to the last sampling whereas the total organic carbon content (TOC), the biochemical oxygen demand (BOD5) and the chemical oxygen demand (COD) remained unaffected. Das Umsatzpotential von organischen Substanzen im Drain von geschlossenen Systemen wurde in einer frchtetragenden Tomatenkultur (NFT) in Hinblick auf Phenolsuren (Benzo-, Ferula-, p-hydroxybenzo-, Salicyl-, Vanillinsure) und elf Gruppen von organischen Substraten (Kohlenhydrate, Amino-, Karboxylsuren, Polymere, Amine, Amide, Alkohole, aromatische Verbindungen, bromierte Verbindungen, Ester, phosphorylierte Verbindungen), die in Wurzelexsudaten erwartet werden, untersucht. Fr den Umsatz organischer Substanz determinierende Faktoren (Mikroflora, O2-Gehalt und Verbrauch, totaler organischer Kohlenstoffgehalt, pH und elektrische Leitfhigkeit) werden fr das untersuchte Kultursystem beschrieben. In belebten Drain wurden die ausgewhlten Phenolsuren in vitro nach kurzer lag-Phase whrend des Beobachtungszeitraumes von 54 h umgesetzt. In nicht sterilem Leitungswasser hingegen verhielten sich die Phenolsuren bedeutend persistenter und Vanillinsure wurde nicht umgesetzt. Substratverwertung wurde mit Hilfe von Microlog GN-Panels untersucht. Von den elf Substratgruppen wurden Kohlenhydrate, Amino- und Karboxylsuren, Polymere und Amine whrend des 96-stndigen Untersuchungszeitraumes am konsequentesten verwertet. Allerdings wurden nicht smtliche einzelne Kohlenstoffquellen in den verschiedenen Klassen metabolisiert. Die Verwertung der brigen sechs Klassen lag unter dem Schwellenwert von 0.5 Absorptionseinheiten. Die Gesamtkeimzahl fr die Bakterien- und Pilzflora sowie fr einzelne Gruppen (fluoreszierende Pseudomonaden, Aktinomyzeten und Trichoderma) war im zweiten Versuchsjahr hher als im ersten. Nach Passage der Nhrlsung durch das Kultursystem stiegen sowohl pH als auch Leitfhigkeit im Vergleich zu den Richtwerten. Sauerstoffgehalt und sttigungsgrad nahmen von der ersten zur dritten Probenentnahme ab, der biochemische und chemische Sauerstoffverbrauch sowie der organische Gesamtkohlenstoffgehalt blieben unbeeinflusst.
24126713|Dormancy-breaking chemical agents are usually used to compensate insufficient chill accumulation that may cause severe production problems in fruit crops. In this study we evaluated if the application of Dormex and winter oil is efficient and suitable to enhance dormancy release in a southern Spain location. The treatment was tested at different phenological stages in the low chill peach 'Early Maycrest' (Prunus persica L. Batsch). Blooming and harvest times as well as blooming and fruit set percentages were evaluated during two consecutive years. The source of temperatures used to calculate chill accumulation (expressed as hours below 7 C, Utah Model and Dynamic Model), obtained either from shade or sun, was also discussed. Trees were treated at two different phenological stages: ca. 50 % and ca. 75 % of the chilling requirements (CR) of the cultivar. The chill accumulated under field conditions was markedly different between years. The treatments only brought forward harvest time by 2 and 3 days in 2007 and 2008, respectively. However, no significant differences were found between different moments of application with regard to blooming and harvest dates and blooming and ffuit set percentages. Also, no significant differences in blooming and ffuit set percentages were found between the treated and control trees. The application of this treatment in extra-low-chill peach cultivars in our climatic conditions is not recommendable unless done after exceptionally warm winter conditions not fulfilling cultivar CR.
24126365|This study was conducted to investigate best cane quality level in 140 Ru and 5 BB grape rootstocks through morphological changes when the canes were sectioned into 4-bud segments from base to tip. Canes were later forced to grow in plastic pots to determine the relationship between cane quality and root-shoot growth characteristics. The results suggested that rootstocks differ along their canes length for best quality to use in propagation. Cuttings should be prepared in 5 BB between 5 to 16th internodes, and in 140 Ru between 512th nodes, because of better quality and well balanced root-shoot growth.
24126429|The issues of cutting length have not been discussed seriously in cutting propagation history. As the results from practice show, cutting lengths between 5 and 15 cm have proven optimal - woody species, as well. On the basis of the newly developed fog systems (high pressure fog systems), the use of very long cuttings (more than 50 cm) became possible for the first time. The results using these longer cuttings from various woody species were surprisingly good. However, the experiments with long cuttings have never been applied to chestnut (Castanea sp.). With a rate of over 20 %, the rooting percentage of long cuttings was much better in comparison to short ones. The leaves of long cuttings accumulated significantly more rutin (>0.35 mg g-1 FW), quercetin-3-O-rhamnoside (quercitrin; >0.38 mg g-1 FW), quercetin-3-D-galactoside (hyperoside; up to 2.80 mg g-1 FW), and quercetin-3-D-glucoside (0.28 mg g-1 FW), but also more ellagic acid (up to 0.13 mg g-1 FW). The differences between long and short cuttings were the greatest at the time of severance; later the differences decreased.
24126458|The objective of the present work was to determine the relationship between fruit size, fruit weight, fruit quality and climate factors and the interaction of these factors at harvest in order to predict the optimal harvest date to obtain high quality apples after storage. The first evaluation of 'Elstar' apples, included weekly determination of apple diameter and the second evaluation included at harvest measurement of fruit weight and fruit quality (Streif index). All apples were cold-stored in normal atmosphere at 3 C or in low oxygen atmosphere at 1 C immediately after picking. Analytical data were combined with daily registered meteorological data including: the sums of degree days, rainfall in the morning including minimum precipitation and/or dew, maximum precipitation (rainfall), evaporation potential, wind velocity, average daily relative humidity, vapour pressure deficit, global radiation, soil temperature and surface wetness. Factor analyses identified three non-correlated factors; 1) energy and water, 2) heat and wind and 3) vapour deficit. The factor loadings were used to determine the importance of each climate variable and its interactions on characteristics of the apple fruit. Multiple regression analyses, with forward selection of climate variables or their interactions showed that apple fruit diameter was significantly affected by two climate factors: 1) degree days and 2) evaporation potential. Only degree day had a significant effect on apple fruit weight. Fruit quality (Streif index) was affected by two climate factors: 1) degree days and 2) relative humidity. Apple fruit diameter, fruit weight and fruit quality were modelled using climate. The differences between measured and predicted diameter, weight and fruit quality were 0.2 mm, 1 g and 0.09 kg cm-2 ww%-1 scores-1, respectively. In view of climate change with expected warmer temperatures, the value establishing and using statistical models for prediction of quality characteristics will increase considerably.
24126390|Maintaining the quality and freshness of fruit and vegetables during transportation and storage is an important role for most postharvest industries. One way to control freshness is by carefully monitoring and regulating exposure to ethylene. By limiting exposure to ethylene the natural aging process of fresh produce is slowed down, thus prolonging its shelf life. This is especially important for organic produce where the use of chemicals for decay control is not practiced. In this paper, the performance characteristics and method of use of a new sensing approach for postharvest ethylene measurements is introduced. In this sensor, ETH-1010, oxidation of ethylene on a gold electrocatalyst produces a highly detectable and measurable amperometric signal. ETH-1010 has been packaged into a complete field portable unit. It continuously samples the air at a set flow rate, (commonly between 200 and 500 ml min-1), and reports the ethylene concentration in air at a user-specified time interval. The direct contact between the ethylene molecules in air and electrocatalytic surface renders this process more sensitive and responsive than conventional diffusion-type electrochemical cells. This approach has been shown to be quite effective for continuous monitoring of cold storage rooms, where detection of lower than 10 ppm down to 10 ppb is desirable. This configuration was also used to examine the applicability of electrocatalysis for scrubbing ethylene. Results for ethylene removal have been presented in this paper where the surface reactivity on the electrocatalyst is typically between 0.1 and 0.2 mol h-1 cm-2. In the sensor, the high reaction rate provides high sensitivity and response time, while making it feasible to consider using electrocatalysis in a scrubbing mode for future applications.
24126133|Reporter proteins play a significant role in developing and optimizing transformation protocols for plant species and they show a unique activity to visualize gene expression and protein localization. Chemical based selection for plant transformation is associated with a number of problems that might be avoided through visual selection. In recent years, the reporter protein GFP (Green Fluorescent Protein) has become very effective and highly valuable for use in biotechnology, cell biology, and biochemistry. It is a unique tool for monitoring gene expression, protein localization, detection of the gene flows and protein dynamics in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic living cells because it requires neither exogenous substrates nor cofactors for its activity. We discussed the use of jellyfish green fluorescent protein (GFP) as a reporter in horticultural plants. Reporterproteine spielen eine wichtige Rolle in der Entwicklung und Optimierung der Transformationsprotokolle fr Pflanzenspezies und sie besitzen eine einzigartige Aktivitt um Genexpression und Proteinlokalisation zu zeigen. Auf Chemikalien basierende Selektion bei Pflanzentransformation ist mit Problemen verbunden, die mit visueller Selektion vermieden werden knnen. In den letzten Jahren wurde das neue Reporterprotein GFP (Grn fluoreszierendes Protein) sehr wertvoll fr den Gebrauch in der Biotechnologie, Zellbiologie und Biochemie. Es ist ein einzigartiges Werkzeug, um die Genexpression und Protein-Lokalisation sowie den Nachweis von Genfluss und Protein-Dynamik in lebenden Zellen von Prokaryonten und Eukaryonten zu berwachen, denn es braucht weder exogen Substrate noch Faktoren fr seine Aktivitt. Wir haben den Einsatz von grn fluoreszierendem Protein (GFP) aus Quallen als Reporter im Gartenbau diskutiert.
24126877|The effects of post-flowering environmental conditions on chemical composition of 'Glen Ample' red raspberry were studied by growing plants at three altitudes (128, 340 and 670 m a. s. l.) at the same latitude in central South Norway. Due to day-to-day variation in temperature and precipitation, the average climatic effects over the entire harvest period were evened out and reduced in magnitude, thus complicating the analysis of their effects. However, correlation of fruit chemical composition for the individual weekly harvests with temperature and precipitation data for the current and preceding weeks, revealed significant effects of weather conditions during fruit maturation. At the lower temperature range established in the present experiment, fruit quality attributes such as dry matter, soluble solids, titratable acids, total monomeric anthocyanins, and total phenolic concentration were all positively correlated with increasing temperature during the final two weeks of fruit maturation, while precipitation during the same period had the opposite effect. It is concluded, however, that the negative effect of precipitation was not likely to be a direct plant-water relation effect, but rather an indirect effect related to increased cloudiness and reduced radiation during rainy weather. Specific effects on, and interrelations between individual compounds were observed and discussed.
24126194|Fruits of three tomato varieties grown in greenhouse in peat irrigated with a complete nutrient solution with electrical conductivity of 2 and 5 mS cm-1, respectively, were assayed for antioxidant activity, and analysed for concentration of soluble solids, total acidity, dry matter and vitamin C, when green, vine-ripened or post-harvest ripened. The experiment showed significant main effects of year, cultivar, degree of maturity and electrical conductivity on antioxidant activity and chemical composition. Small but significant differences were observed between years, and the same pattern of variation of FRAP (Ferric Reducing Ability of Plasma), dry matter, soluble solids, titratable acidity, and vitamin C was observed within years. The degree of maturity (green versus red) explained 49 % of the variation in the data set. Post-harvest- and vine-ripened tomatoes had higher values of titratable acidity, dry matter, soluble solids, FRAP and ascorbic acid. The difference between cultivars accounted for 31 % of the variation. 'Favorita' showed the highest values for antioxidant activity, dry matter, soluble solids, titratable acidity and ascorbic acid, thus dominating the variation. FRAP values and ascorbic acid was connected to cultivar, while dry matter, titratable acidity and soluble solid were connected to the fertilizer level. The antioxidant activity was not affected by the concentration of the nutrient solution. Frchte dreier Tomatensorten, die im Gewchshaus in Torfkultur mit einer vollstndigen Nhrlsung und einer elektrischen Leitfhigkeit von 2 bzw. 5 mS cm-1 produziert worden waren, wurden auf ihren Gehalt an lslicher Trockensubstanz, titrierbarer Sure, Gesamttrockensubstanz und Vitamin C untersucht. Dabei wurden (i) grne, (ii) an der Pflanze rot abgereifte und (iii) unter kontrollierten Bedingungen rot nachgereifte Tomaten in die Versuche einbezogen. Das Experiment zeigte signifikante Einflsse der Versuchs jhre, der Sorten, des Reifegrads und der elektrischen Leitfhigkeit auf die antioxidative Kapazitt und die chemische Zusammensetzung. Es wurden geringe, aber signifikante Unterschiede zwischen den Versuchsjahren bezglich des Musters der FRAP-Variation ("Ferric Reducing Ability of Plasma"), der Gesamttrockensubstanz, der lslichen Trockensubstanz, der titrierbaren Sure und des Vitamin C-Gehaltes beobachtet. Der Reifegrad (grn versus rot) erklrte 49 % der Variation der Versuchsdaten. Nachgereifte und an der Pflanze ausgereifte rote Tomaten hatten hhere Gehalte an titrierbarer Sure, Gesamttrockensubstanz, lsliche Trockensubstanz, FRAP und Vitamin C. Die Unterschiede zwischen den Sorten waren die Ursache fr 31 % der Variationen. Fr Tomaten der Sorte 'Favorita' wurden die hchsten Werte bezglich antioxidativer Kapazitt, Gesamttrockensubstanz, lslicher Trockensubstanz, titrierbarer Sure und Vitamin C gemessen und dominierten damit die Variation. FRAP-Werte und Ascorbinsure waren an die Sorte gekoppelt, whrend Gesamttrockensubstanz, titrierbare Sure und lsliche Trockensubstanz der Dngungsstufe folgten. Die antioxidative Kapazitt war unbeeinflusst von der Konzentration der Nhrlsung.
24126620|The abortion of buds and flower buds induced by low night temperature stress is an important constraint to the production of pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) grown in unheated greenhouses during winter. The abortion of floral structures was investigated in two local hot pepper varieties ('Beldi' and 'Baklouti') grown in a growth chamber at a day/night temperature regime of either low night temperature (25/10 C, LNT) or optimum night temperature (25/20 C, ONT as a control). The negative effect of LNT on the differentiation of floral structures, expressed by the percentage abortion, was recorded for both varieties. LNT affected pepper floral structures early: buds and flower bud stages were more sensitive than flowers at the anthesis stage. The percentage abortion of these structures was less pronounced in 'Beldi' (41.5 %) than in 'Baklouti' (49.6 %) after 5 d of the treatment.
24126460|Twelve hazelnut cultivars taken from Bolu-Akakoca, West Black Sea Region of Turkey, were evaluated in terms of bioactive properties such as fat and fatty acid composition, protein and amino acid, water-soluble and water-insoluble vitamins, ash and mineral content at 2 consecutive years. Considerable differences were observed among cultivars for all properties (P  0.05) with the exception of palmitoleic acid, leucine and threonine content (P  0.05). In all cultivars, fat was the predominant component (56.4564.11 %) followed by oleic acid (80.5985.64 %), glutamic acid (2.3423.543 g 100 g-1), arginin (1.3102.366 g 100 g-1), -tocopherol (19.24378.80 mg 100 g-1), ascorbic acid (1.4303.207 mg 100 g-1), potassium contents (560.20893.90 mg 100 g-1).
24126497|The postharvest economic quality of mature apple (Malus  domestica Borkh.) is determined by the fruit shelf-life, which is associated with the fruit softening rate at room temperature. Ethylene is the factor that has been most studied in relation to the regulation of fruit softening. Softening rate and ethylene production differ widely among apple cultivars. 1-aminocyclopropane-l-carboxylic acid synthase (ACS) is one of the key regulatory enzymes involved in the synthesis of ethylene. In apple, at least four members of the ACS gene family have been identified, two of which, MdACS1 and MdACS3, have been studied extensively due to their specific expression in fruit tissue. Recent characterization of these genes has provided insight into the molecular basis of ACS gene involvement in fruit ripening, and a role of ACS genes in the regulation of system-1 and system-2 ethylene biosynthesis has been proposed. This paper reviews advances in our understanding of the relationship between ACS gene expression and the fruit shelf-life of apple, and also discusses other factors that influence fruit ripening. In addition, we prospectively overview promising research avenues that could lead to further clarification of the regulatory events involved in ripening.
24126343|Plants of Urtica dioica were cultivated in three years with four different nitrogen (N) levels (0, 100, 200 and 400 kg N ha-1) and the aerial parts were harvested three times per year to investigate if the content of flavonoids and phenolic acids were affected. The flavonol glycosides quercetin-3-O-glucoside, quercetin-3-O-rutinoside, isorhamnetin-3-O-rutinoside, and kaempferol-3-O-rutinoside and the phenolic acids 5-O-caffeoylquinic acid, 3-O-caffeoylquinic acid, 5-O-feruloylquinic acid and 2-O-caffeoylmalic acid were identified and quantified in extracts of the aerial parts of U. dioica by LC-DAD-MS and RP-HPLC-DAD, respectively. High N-levels reduced the concentration of total flavonoids significantly from an average of 10 mg g-1 dry matter (DM) at 0 kg N ha-1 to 5 mg g-1 at 400 kg N. The effect of N levels on total phenolic acids was only significant in the second harvest each year with a reduction from an average of 30 mg g-1 DM at 0 kg N ha-1 to 23 mg g-1 at 400 kg N ha-1. The composition of flavonoids changed significantly among the major flavonoids with later harvest time resulting in an increase in the content of quercetin-3-O-rutinoside and a decrease of the quercetin-3-O-glucoside content. From the present study it appears that cultivation of U. dioica herba for medicinal purposes with a high yield of bioactive compounds is a compromise between a high yield of plant material and the content of flavonol glycosides and phenolic acids in the harvested product.
24126397|To determine the optimal growing system for organic apple production three different cover crop management practises were established for two scab resistant apple cultivars; cultivar A 'Prima' and cultivar B 'Vanda'. The management practices included: Treatment 1: A permanent grass mixture in the alley way, Treatment 2: A permanent clover grass mixture in the alley way and Treatment 3: An annual mixture of grass and clover was sown every year in early July and mulched down the following year in April. Mechanical weed control in the tree rows was carried out yearly from April to July. No additional fertilizer, irrigation or pest and disease control were carried out. A mulching sub trial was conducted in the cover crops: after mowing the cover crops in Treatment 1 and 2: clippings were mulched into the tree row (Treatment A) or clippings were left in the alley way (Treatment B). The permanent grass alley way system (Treatment 1) resulted in the lowest shoot growth, the lowest level of nitrogen in leaf dry matter and fruit with the highest percentage of skin colour. The permanent clover grass mixture (Treatment 2) increased the nitrogen level in the leaves and decreased the percentage of skin colour, moreover the apple scab and fly speck infection on the fruit skin increased compared to fruits produced in Treatment 1. The annual cover crop growing system (Treatment 1) produced vigorous tree growth, a high level of nitrogen in the leaves, high soil water content in the alley way, the highest yield of large fruits and a low percentage of skin colour. The mulching trial showed that leaving clippings of grass in the alley way (Treatment B) resulted in a lower yield of coloured fruit compared with fruit harvested following mulching of the clippings into the tree row (Treatment B). This effect was not only obtained for grass (Treatment 1) but also for clover grass clippings (Treatment 2). The soil water content in the tree row was highest following mulching clover grass. For the permanent grass system the highest content of soil water in the tree row was obtained for bare soil.
24126907|Recent research has supported the view that the distributions of many pests and diseases have extended towards higher latitudes over the last 50 years. Probably driven by a combination of climate change and trade, this extension to the ranges of hundreds of plant pathogens may have serious implications not only for agriculture, horticulture and forestry, but also for turf production & maintenance. Here we review our data relating to the current status of three emerging pest and disease problems across North West Europe (rapid blight, Labyrinthula sp., the root knot nematode, Meloidogyne minor and the pacific stem gall nematode, Anguina pacificae) and discuss the factors which may be involved in their spread and increasing impact on the turf industry. With turf production and maintenance becoming an increasingly international business, we ask if biosecurity and the promotion of plant health in turf production fields and associated sport facilities should be a greater priority for the industry. We also examine if a lack of effective biosecurity measures in the materials supply chain has led to increased plant health problems.
24126326|Due to the economic importance of sweet cherry production and virus tolerance, a range of rootstock clones (hybrids of Prunus spp.) has for some time been under study for response to infection by the pollen-borne Prune dwarf virus (PDV) and Prunus necrotic ringspot virus (PNRSV). The plants were artificially inoculated by bark grafting using well-prepared inocula. Throughout the phases of preparation and investigation all the plants were grown in containers filled with sterilized soil-substrate and were kept under conditions excluding accidental infection. Virus replication in the leaf tissue was checked for by DAS-ELISA. Data of growth parameters (leaf and shoot development) and virus symptom expression (description and evaluation of number of leaves showing symptoms compared to overall number of leaves) was recorded weekly. Two types of virus response were observed and will be discussed for their epidemiological importance: a) tolerance as a tool to guarantee economically efficient cultivation e.g. of cherries under conditions where accidental infection has to be taken into account; b) hypersensitivity as a prerequisite to stop infection and save valuable plants (e.g. seed and scion source trees) under conditions where accidental infection is relatively unlikely but could have costly consequence in case of occurrence. Auf Grund der wirtschaftlichen Bedeutung des Skirschenanbaus und der Toleranz gegenber Kirschenringfleckenviren wurde eine Reihe ausgewhlter Genotypen von Unterlagen (Hybriden aus Kreuzungen zwischen Prunus-Arten) Untersuchungen auf ihre Reaktion gegenber einer Infektion mit den pollenbertragbaren Kirschenringfleckenviren (Prune dwarf virus, PDV und Prunus necrotic ringspot virus, PNRSV) unterzogen. Dazu wurden die Versuchspflanzen durch Rindenschildchenpfropfung mit einheitlichen Inokula (je 5 nur PDV, nur PNRSV bzw. beides) infiziert. Whrend der gesamten Vorbereitungs- und Beobachtungszeit wurden die Pflanzen in mit sterilisiertem Erdsubstrat gefllten Containern unter infektionsfreien Bedingungen gehalten. Die Virusreplikation im Blatt wurde durch wiederholten DAS-ELISA berprft. Daten zu Wachstumsparametern (Blatt- und Triebentwicklung) und zur Ausprgung von Virussymptomen (Symptombeschreibung, Verhltnis symptomtragender Bltter zu Gesamtzahl an Blttern) wurden wchentlich erhoben. Bezglich der Virusempfindlichkeit wurden zwei Reaktionsmuster beobachtet, die im Hinblick auf ihre epidemiologische Bedeutung diskutiert werden: a) Virustoleranz als ein Leistungsmerkmal von Unterlagen, das einen wirtschaftlichen Kirschenanbau auch in Gebieten, in denen mit einer zuflligen Infektion mit Kirschenringfleckenviren gerechnet werden mu, garantiert; b) Hypersensitivitt als eine Mglichkeit in Vermehrungsbestnden (z.B. Samenspenderanlagen und Muttergrten), die durch aufwndige phytosanitre Manahmen virusfrei gehalten werden, eine zufllige Infektion zu stoppen und auf diese Weise Pflanzenmaterial, dessen Wert in seiner Virusfreiheit liegt, zu erhalten.
24126640|A total of 44 apricot genotypes belonging to germplasm collection of Corvinus University (Budapest, Hungary), BOKU University (IOG, Vienna) and the Research Centre for Agriculture and Forestry Laimburg (Italy) were screened with 10 microsatellite primer pairs previously developed in apricot. All primers produced polymorphic amplification patterns, revealing 85 different alleles. The mean number of alleles per locus was 8.5 Out of them, 21 alleles occurred only once in the investigated samples. The observed heterozygosity for individual loci ranged from 0.9545 to 0.3182 with an average of 0.6604. A UPGMA dendrogram based on Nei's genetic distance divided the cultivars into two groups that reflect their geographic origin, one with genotypes originating from Europe and the other with genotypes from Central Asia. Implications of these data for the use of SSR markers as a tool for fingerprinting cultivars in breeder's right protection, but also in assisting breeding and selection programmes in apricot are discussed.
24126886|Phytophthora spp. (capsici and parasitica) and Meloidogyne incognita are major pathogens of pepper in the greenhouses of south Southern Spain. Grafting on rootstocks carrying genes for resistance to the pathogens was evaluated as an alternative to chemical disinfection of soil. Under controlled conditions, the response to co-infection of M. incognita and Phytophthora capsici or P. parasitica of 7 rootstocks resistant to Phytophthora was evaluated. Two populations of M. incognita, race 2, were collected from peppers and were used for this study; one virulent on pepper rootstock Atlante (hybrid F1 of Serrano Criollo Morelos 334, resistant to M. incognita), and the other avirulent. Two Phytophthora isolates were tested, one highly aggressive of P. capsici, the other less aggressive P. parasitica. The infestation with M. incognita did not increase the percentage of plants affected by P. capsici or P. parasitica. The avirulent M. incognita population did not infest any rootstocks carrying Me3 or Me1 genes. The virulent population infest lowly three rootstocks two carrying Me1 and one carrying Me3. In the rootstocks infested by M. incognita, Phytophthora was reisolated from the root lesions, although the plant did not show any wilt or root-rot Symptoms.
24126619|Carrot is one of the major vegetable crops produced and consumed in Switzerland. In the past years poor shelf life of carrots has led to frequent complaints from consumers and retailers. The most critical deficiency was the development of black root rot spot on carrots caused by Chalara species. Previous investigations showed that all the tested fields in the main carrot production regions of Switzerland were contaminated with Chalara sp. In Switzerland, carrots for long term storage are harvested in October and early November. They then are stored in wooden bins in refrigerated rooms for a period of up to seven months. It is recommended to use perforated plastic bin liners to minimize water losses of carrots. The effect of Chalara field contamination, cooling techniques, storage with or without polyethylene liners on overall yield of marketable carrots, quality traits and the occurrence of black root rot were investigated. Storage of carrots at temperatures between 04 C prevented the development of Chalara. Excessive water losses resulted in wilting of carrots, and maintenance of high air humidity was critical during the entire storage. Hence, lining bins with perforated plastic foil is advisable in most storage rooms. In addition, replacing recycled water with fresh tap water during carrot washing and the maintenance of a closed cool chain below 8 C after washing, packaging and in retail prevented the occurrence of black root rot and other decay. In conclusion, proper postharvest processing, in particular optimal washing operations, can assure acceptable shelf life and high quality of carrots grown in Chalara infested fields.
24126355|Yield and fruit characteristics of eggplant, cv. 'Delica' (flask type fruit), were studied in relation to grafting and K rate. The vegetative growth and yield of plants grafted on to tomato rootstocks cv. '515' and '516' (Spyrou A.E.B.E., Athens) was superior to that of the non-grafted control, whereas plants grafted on to eggplant rootstocks cv. '494' and '543' (Spyrou A.E.B.E., Athens) showed similar development and yield to that of the control. The root systems of the tomato rootstocks were appreciably larger than those of the eggplant rootstocks, and this is likely to have encouraged the better vegetative growth of the former. Differences in yield were primarily due to larger sized fruit harvested from plants grafted on to tomato rootstocks, and fruit number was generally higher. Increasing the K content had a variable effect on mean fruit weight and yield of eggplant grafted on to tomato rootstocks, increasing both these parameters in experiment 1 (planting in early spring), but having virtually no effect in experiment 2 (summer planting). Rootstock or K rate did not affect the mineral composition of the fruit. It is concluded that for greenhouse eggplant cultivated under warm conditions, tomato may be the preferable rootstock for grafting. When planting occurs early in spring, a higher K rate may also be beneficial. An Auberginen der Sorte 'Delica' (flaschenfrmiger Typ) wurde der Einfluss von Veredlung und K-Dngung auf Erntemenge und Fruchteigenschaften untersucht. Das vegetative Wachstum und die Erntemenge war bei auf den Tomatenunterlagen '515' und '516' (Spyrou A.E.B.E., Athens) veredelten Pflanzen besser als bei der nicht veredelten Kontrolle, whrend Pflanzen, die auf den Auberginenunterlagen '494' und '543' (Spyrou A.E.B.E., Athens) veredelt waren, in Entwicklung und Ertrag der Kontrolle hnelten. Die Wurzelsysteme der Tomatenunterlagen waren deutlich strker ausgebildet als die der Auberginenunterlagen, was vermutlich das vegetative Wachstum ersterer frderte. Die grere Erntemenge bei auf Tomatenunterlagen veredelten Pflanzen war vor allem auf grere Frchte, aber auch auf die hheren Fruchtzahlen zurckzufhren. Die hhere K-Gabe hatte in den beiden Versuchsjahren unterschiedliche Auswirkungen auf Erntemenge und Fruchtqualitt der auf Tomatenunterlagen veredelten Auberginen: In Versuch 1 (Pflanzen im zeitigen Frhjahr) stiegen beide Parameter an, in Versuch 2 (Pflanzen im Sommer) zeigte sich praktisch keine Wirkung. Unterlage und K-Dngung hatten keinen Einfluss auf die mineralischen Inhaltstoffe der Frchte. Zusammenfassend kann festgestellt werden, dass fr in warmen Gebieten kultivierte Gewchshaus-Auberginen Tomaten wahrscheinlich die geeigneteren Unterlagen sind. Bei Pflanzungen im zeitigen Frhjahr kann eine hhere K-Gabe frderlich sein.
24126510|The effect of fruit bagging on the quality of 'Conference' pears (Pyrus communis L.) was evaluated over two growing seasons. The experiment was conducted in three treatments: bagged until harvest, where the paper bags were left on the fruit until harvest time (150 days after full bloom (DAFB)); bagged until 7 days before harvest, where the bags were removed seven days before harvest (143 DAFB); and the control  not bagged at any time. Bagged fruit were covered with paper bags in mid-June, 65 DAFB, at an early stage offrait growth. HPLC analysis was performed for individual sugars, organic acids in whole fruit, and phenolic compounds in the skin and pulp. The year had considerable influence on observed fruit parameters. Bagging had a negative impact on sucrose and sorbitol content. The bagged fruit were brighter (higher L*) than the control fruit. The reduction of colour (increased L* parameter and hue angle around 95) by bagging may have a negative effect on consumer appeal. In second growing season bagging reduced fruit weight to such extend, that fruit were under 110 g and therefore not marketable. Bagging of pear fruit increased some phenolic compounds in the skin. Epicatechin and caffeic acid contents in skin were highest in bagged fruit. Removing the bags seven days before harvest decreased arbutin content in the pulp and also total sugars in the whole fruit and therefore fruit may have poorer eating quality. Quercetin 3-O-rhamnoside content in skin decreased in both years among fruit bagged until harvest. We don't recommend the use of bagging for 'Conference' pear in European growth conditions.
24126647|Out of five fertilizer managements applied to a 'Huangguan' pear orchard, a bio-organic fertilizer inoculated with Bacillus polymyxa (BOF) resulted in increased new shoot length, leaf area, hundred leaf weights, single fruit weight compared to the unfertilized control, while the leaf chlorophyll content was not significantly influenced. At maturity, the fruit yield in BOF treatment was significantly higher than the other treatments. Significantly higher sugar contents but lower organic acid contents were obtained by the application of BOF and organic-inorganic compound fertilizer (CF) compared to control or conventional fertilization containing only chemical fertilizers (CV). At the same time, organic fertilization, especially BOF treatment, led to higher amounts of soil bacteria, fungi and actinomycetes compared to control or CV treatments. Taken together, BOF application had a vital role in tree growth, fruit taste and fruit quality improvement.
24126269|The influence of NH4-N/total-N supply ratio (Nr) via the nutrient solution on plant growth, yield and fruit quality was investigated in a tomato crop grown in a closed hydroponic system using perlite as a substrate. Nr was set at 0.05, 0.10, 0.15, 0.20 and 0.25 on a molar basis. Increasing Nr to values above 0.10 restricted progressively the vegetative growth, the fruit yield and quality, and enhanced markedly the incidence of blossom-end rot. Furthermore, the increase of Nr above 0.15 resulted in long-term decrease of pH in the rhizosphere to levels below 5, as indicated by the pH values measured in the drainage water. The high ammonium supply ratios had no effect on the leaf K, P, and micronutrient concentrations, as well as on the aluminium content in leaves and roots, but restricted significantly the Ca and Mg concentrations in roots, leaves and fruits to values below critical levels. In contrast, the concentrations of both chlorophyll and organically bound nitrogen in the leaf were enhanced by the increasing Nr. It is postulated that tomato is susceptible to increasing Nr in hydroponics due to suppression of the rhizosphere pH below critical levels and competitive restriction of Ca and Mg uptake by ammonium, which acts synergistically with the low pH. Der Einfluss des NH4-N/Gesamt-N-Verhltnisses (Nr) in der Nhrlsung auf das Pflanzenwachstum, die Erntemenge und Fruchtqualitt wurde an einer Tomatenkultur untersucht, die in einem geschlossenen hydroponischen System auf Perlit kultiviert wurde. Nr wurde auf molarer Basis auf Werte von 0.05, 0.10, 0.15, 0.20 bis 0.25 eingestellt. Ansteigendes Nr ber 0.10 beeintrchtigte zunehmend das vegetative Wachstum, die Erntemenge und Qualitt der Frchte und begnstigte das Auftreten der Bltenendfule merklich. Desweiteren fhrte ein Nr Wert ber 0.15 zu einer langfristigen pH-Absenkung auf Werte unter 5, was sich durch Messen der pH-Werte im Drainagewasser nachgewiesen wurde. Der hohe Ammonium-Versorgungsgrad hatte keinen Einfluss auf den K-, P-, und Mikroelementegehalt in den Blttern, genauso wenig wie auf den Aluminiumgehalt in Blttern und Wurzeln, begrenzte aber den Ca- und Mg-Gehalt in Wurzeln, Blttern und Frchten auf Werte unterhalb eines kritischen Maes. Im Gegensatz dazu erhhten sich die Konzentrationen sowohl des Chlorophylls wie auch des organisch gebundenen Stickstoffs im Laub durch den ansteigenden Nr-Wert. Es wird angenommen, dass Tomaten empfindlich reagieren auf hhere Nr-Werte in Nhrlsungen, was durch Absenken des pHs in der Rhizosphre unter einen kritischen Wert und durch die Begrenzung der Aufnahme von Ca und Mg durch den Gegenspieler Ammonium, das synergistisch zum niedrigen pH wirkt, hervorgerufen wird.
24126103|As an introductory survey for assessment of the risk for dispersal of plant diseases in a closed hydroponic outdoor cultivation system for nursery stock production the dynamics of the microflora inhabiting the roots of selected crops and inhabiting different localities within the irrigation system were studied using sole carbon source utilization. Chamaecyparis lawsoniana, Ribes sanguineum and Symphoricarpos were used as target crops. Analyses of irrigation water focused on three layers in the irrigation pond (surface, epilimnion; mid layer at 40 cm depth, metalimnion; bottom at 200 cm depth, hypolimnion). Root and water samples were collected with five replicates at three cardinal incidents during the vegetation period (autumn; spring; summer). Additional samples were taken from other water sources feeding into the irrigation pond, namely the three wells (spring and summer) and the retained irrigation effluent (summer). The present study indicated shifts in functional diversity during the vegetation period, regarding both the grown crops and location within the irrigation system. It also showed differences between the chosen habitats. Differences also occurred between the sampling incidents with respect to utilization of Pythium specific carbon sources. With respect to carbon sources specific for Pythium ssp., utilization was high for the microflora of all three crops and started after a short lag-phase. Further, also utilization of Pythium specific carbon sources by the microflora inhabiting the studied water habitats was substantial. Discriminant analysis (DA) of the functional diversity at the chosen sampling sites with respect to sampling incidents was dominated by carbon sources specific for Pythium. However, utilization of precursors for phenolic compound metabolism, malonic acid and phenylalanine, was low in most cases. An negative correlation between -D-glucose, D-trehalose and cis-aconitic acid to phenylalanine was found for the root samples during the second sampling. Some compounds (D-fructose, -D-lactose, D-raffinose, L-aspartic acid, glycyl-L-aspartic acid, urocanic acid, glycerol, glucose-1-phosphate, glucose-6-phosphate) were found as discriminating between the samplings occurred for several of the studied habitats. In einer einfhrenden Studie zum Verstndnis der Risiken der Verbreitung von Krankheitserregern in geschlossenen Kultursystemen im Freiland wurde die Dynamik der Mikroflora an ausgewhlten Habitaten innerhalb eines geschlossenen Baumschulsystems anhand von Verwendungsmustern einzelner Kohlenstoffquellen (SCSU; Microlog GN-Panel) untersucht. Die Analyse konzentrierte sich auf die wurzelkolonisierende Mikroflora von drei Kulturen (Chamaecyparis lawsoniana, Ribes sanguineum, Symphoricarpos) und auf die Mikroflora, die verschiedene Schichten des Bewsserungsteiches besiedelt (Epi-, Meta- und Hy-polimnion in 200 cm Tiefe) mit Probenentnahme zu drei Zeitpunkten whrend der Vegetationsperiode (Herbst, Frhjahr, Sommer). Ausserdem wurden zustzliche Wasserquellen (Brunnen 1+3, Brunnen 2, rezirkuliertes Bewsserungswasser) innerhalb eines Erwerbsbaumschulsystems an zwei (Frhjahr, Sommer) bzw. einem Zeitpunkt (Sommer) whrend der Vegetationsperiode untersucht. Proben aus smtlichen Habitaten wurden mit fnf Wiederholungen gezogen. Die vorliegende Studie weist auf Vernderungen in der funktionellen Diversitt whrend der Vegetationsperiode zwischen den Kulturen und zwischen den Probenentnahmezeitpunkten hin. Ausserdem wurden Unterschiede zwischen den gewhlten Probeentnahmepltzen im Bewsserungssystem gefunden. Signifikante Unterschiede zwischen den Probenentnahmezeitpunkten traten auch hinsichtlich der Verwendung Pythium-spezifischer Kohlenstoffquellen auf. Bezglich der Verwendung Pythium-spezifischer Quellen stieg die Verwendung besonders schnell in den Wurzelproben an. Aber auch in den untersuchten Habitaten innerhalb des Bewsserungssystems kam eine bedeutende Verwendung Pythium-spezifischer Quellen vor. Die Analyse der Habitate in Bezug auf Probenentnahmezeitpunkte mit Hilfe der Diskriminantanalyse (DA) wurde von Pythium-spezifischen Kohlenstoffquellen dominiert. Die Verwendung von Substanzen, die die Vorstufen fr die Produktion von phenolischen Stoffen sind (Malonsure, Phenylalanin) war in den meisten Fllen gering und trat erst nach lngerer Inkubationszeit auf. Eine negative Korrelation konnte zwischen einigen Pythium-spezifischen Substanzen (-D-Glukose, D-Trehalose and cis-Aconitonsure) und Pheylalanin bei der zweiten Probenentnahme festgestellt werden. Einige Substanzen (D-Fruktose, -D-Laktose, D-Raffinose, L-Asparaginsure, Glycyl-L-Asparaginsure, Harnsure, Glyzerol, Glukose-1-Phosphat, Glukose-6-Phosphat) zeichneten in der DA als determinierend fr mehrere der untersuchten Habitate aus.
24134269|Osteospermum cv. belongs to the so called 'New ornamental plants', which gained much popularity over the last few years. A collection of 111 Osteospermum and nine Dimorphotheca genotypes were evaluated by AFLP (Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphism) analysis. In the present study we analysed the genetic diversity within breeding pools from different breeders together with a selection of wild species. The genotypes could be grouped into four main clusters. While Faccioli et al. (2000) were able to classify the genotypes by origin of the cultivar, no such relation was found in the present work. Yellow flower colour, assumed to originate from only a few genetic sources was found in all four major clusters. However, within the clusters these genotypes were grouped together. Overall genetic distances among Osteospermum genotypes turned out to be small emphasizing the need to optimise the choice of parental genotypes in breeding programs aiming at low inbreeding depression. Three different cluster methods (UPGMA, Fitch and Margoliash and Neighbour-joining) were used to calculate the phenograms. To estimate the reliability of dendrograms a bootstrap-analysis has been carried out with 100 replicates. The phenograms revealed only marginal differences between the methods. These differences are mainly found for groups with small bootstrap-values, including interspecific hybrids. In addition to cluster analyses, the data set was analysed by principal component analysis (PCA) to display similarities among genotypes. The same four major groups could be distinguished supporting the cluster analyses. The AFLP data are complemented with data from two chloroplast SSR markers which allows the differentiation of eight cytoplasmic lineages among the genotypes investigated.
24126435|The culturable bacteria living as associated and endophytic microorganisms in tissue cultures of black locust selected randomly from roots as well as shoots were characterized. During a ten week cultivation period, the population density increased by approximately 102 to 103, and showed the highest density in the root tissue by approximately 108 to 109 cfu g-1 fresh weight. Sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene of 119 isolated strains revealed 20 different genotypes belonging to six genera from the phyla Actinobacteria and Proteobacteria. The Actinobacteria which represented the majority of isolates were divided into up to 12 16S rDNA genotypes belonging to the genera Microbacterium and Curtobacterium. The Proteobacteria (8 genotypes) was comprised of the genera Sphingomonas (2 genotypes), Methylobacterium (1 genotype), Acidovorax (1 genotype), and Dyella (4 genotypes).
24126180|Jojoba [Simmondsia chinensis (Link) Schneider.] explants were cultured in vitro under four levels of sodium chloride concentration during the shoot proliferation stage. The dry weight of explants as well as their water and carbohydrate content were determined during a three-month period at month intervals. Jojoba expiants were tolerant to salinity up to a certain level (0.66 % w/v sodium chloride), showing increased water uptake and dry weight compared to the control. Sucrose and pinitol content were found to be higher in expiants grown under saline conditions, while the opposite stood for glucose. Fructose, inositol and starch content did not exhibit any significant changes with salinity. Carbohydrates may play an osmoprotective role in jojoba salt tolerance under in vitro conditions, by enhancing water uptake from the medium up to a certain salinity level (0.66 % w/v), revealing thus an adaptive response of the species against the increased salinization of the growth medium. Jojoba-[Simmondsia chinensis (Link) Schneider.] Explantate wurden whrend der in vitro Proliferationsphase bei vier verschiedenen Natriumchlorid-Konzentrationen kultiviert. Das Trockengewicht der Explantate sowie ihr Wasser- und Kohlenhydratgehalt wurden whrend einer dreimonatigen Periode in monatlichen Abstnden ermittelt. Jojoba-Explantate waren bis zu einer bestimmten Salzkonzentration (0.66 % w/v Natriumchlorid), tolerant und reagierten im Vergleich zur Kontrolle mit Erhhung von Wasseraufnahme und Trockengewicht. Der Saccharoseund der Pinitolgehalt waren in den Explantaten, die unter Salzeinfluss kultiviert wurden, hher, whrend das Entgegengesetzte fr Glukose zutraf. Fructose-, Inositol- und Strkegehalt zeigten keine signifikanten nderungen mit dem Salzgehalt. Bis zu einer Salzkonzentration von 0.66 % w/v knnen Kohlenhydrate durch ihre Steigerung der Wasseraufnahme aus dem Substrat eine osmoprotektive Rolle in der Jojoba-Salztoleranz unter in vitro Bedingungen spielen und folglich eine Anpassung an erhhte Salzkonzentrationen im Substrat aufdecken.
24126167|In this study, effects of PE-UV (UV stabilised polyethylene), PE-IR (IR absorbers polyethylene), D-PE (double layer polyethylene) and PE (polyethylene) used as greenhouse covers, on growth, development and yield of aubergine were investigated over three spring seasons (1999, 2000, 2001). The greenhouse covered with PE had the highest light transmission, followed by PE-UV, PE-IR and D-PE, respectively. Based on the results, covering materials were ranked as D-PE, PE-IR, PE-UV and PE in terms of temperature in the greenhouses. Vapour pressure deficit was highest in PE, and followed by PE-IR, PE-UV and D-PE covered greenhouses. Plant growth in D-PE houses was faster than that of the plants in PE-UV, PE-IR, PE covered greenhouses. Some parameters regarding plant growth in D-PE and PE-IR covered greenhouses were found to be similar. The highest yield was obtained from the greenhouses covered with D-PE and this was followed by PE-UV, PE-IR and PE covered greenhouses. These results showed that D-PE was superior to the other covering materials for optimal plant growth and earliness of aubergine yield under the studied experimental conditions. Es wurde die Wirkung von Gewchshausabdeckungen aus PE-UV (UV stabilisiertem Polyethylen), PE-IR (IR absorbierendem Polyethylen), D-PE (doppellagigem Polyethylen) und PE (Polyethylen) auf das Wachstum, die Entwicklung und die Erntemenge von Auberginen bei Frhjahrskulturen (1999,2000,2001) untersucht. Das PE gedeckte Gewchshaus wies die hchste Lichtdurchlssigkeit auf, gefolgt von PE-UV, PE-IR bzw. D-PE. Hinsichtlich des Faktors Gewchshaustemperatur ergab sich folgende Reihung: D-PE, PE-IR, PE-UV und PE. Das Dampfdruckdefizit war bei Gewchshausabdeckungen aus PE am hchsten, gefolgt von PE-IR, PE-UV and D-PE. Das Pflanzenwachstum war in D-PE Husern strker als in PE-UV, PE-IR, PE Gewchshusern. Einige Wachstumsparameter waren in D-PE und PE-IR Husern sehr hnlich. Die hchste Erntemenge wurde in D-PE Husern gefolgt von PE-UV, PE-IR und PE erzielt. Diese Ergebnisse zeigen, dass unter den gewhlten Bedingungen D-PE als Gewchshausabdeckung hinsichtlich Wachstum und Frhzeitigkeit der Auberginen den anderen untersuchten Materialien berlegen ist.
24126280|Four grape cultivars namely 'Flame Seedless', 'Thompson Seedless', 'Sharad Seedless' and 'Tas-A-Ganesh' (mutant of 'Thompson Seedless') were given different levels of moisture stress to study their physiological responses. The marginal reduction in photosynthesis and greater reduction in transpiration rate in 'Flame Seedless' have resulted in higher water use efficiency (WUE) in this variety under moisture stress. Testing of five rootstocks Dogridge, Salt Creek, 1613 C, St. George and Vitis chamipnii (VC) clone for drought tolerance revealed better performance of Dogridge under moisture stress conditions in terms of increased root to shoot length ratio, root to shoot dry weight ratio, increased accumulation of abscissic acid (ABA) and reduced cytokinin concentration. Budding three cultivars 'Flame Seedless', 'Thompson Seedless' and 'Sharad Seedless' on different rootstocks viz., Dogridge, Salt Creek and VC clone and subjecting to moisture stress resulted in better performance of 'Flame Seedless' and 'Sharad Seedless' budded on Dogridge in terms of increased WUE and ABA content under 50 % moisture stress. Own rooted 'Sharad Seedless' recorded least WUE under 50 % moisture stress, but when it was budded on Dogridge and subjected to moisture stress it recorded higher WUE suggesting the role of some rootstocks in manipulating the physiological changes in few scion cultivars grafted on them.
24126418|The effects of Arbuscular Mycorrhizal (AM) fungus species Glomus mosseae and Glomus intraradices on growth and leaf nutrition status of grapevine rootstocks, '5 BB' (Vitis berlandieri x Vitis riparia), '1613 C' (Vitis solonis x Vitis riparia cv. 'Gloire de Montpellier'), '41 B' (Vitis vinifera L. cv. 'Chasselas' x Vitis berlandieri) and Vitis vinifera L. cv. 'Early Cardinal', were investigated. Dormant cuttings of representative genotypes were rooted in perlite and transplanted into black polyethylene bags containing fumigated growing medium. Mycorrhizal inoculation was performed using 1000 mycorrhizal spores per plant, 50 mm under rooted grape cuttings. The development of the grapevine genotypes was significantly affected by mycorrhizal inoculation. Both fungi promoted significant increases in shoot and root growth and leaf P and Zn concentrations. Considering the overall results, G. mosseae appears to have a greater effect on shoot growth parameters, and G. intraradices appears to have a greater effect on root growth parameters and leaf P and Zn concentrations. Therefore, G. intraradices would be anticipated to aid vines to overcome element deficiencies in especially areas where P and Zn deficiency predominate.
24126503|This study was undertaken to evaluate the effects of several mycorrhizal fungi species and their cocktail on eggplant (Solanum melongena L.) seedling growth, P and Zn uptake. Three greenhouse experiments were continued consecutively for 3 years to evaluate the effects of several mycorrhizal species (Glomus species) on eggplant seedling production and growth before transplanting to field conditions. Arbuscular Mycorrhizae Fungi (AMF) used were Glomus mosseae, G. clarum, G. caledonium, G. intraradices and G. etunicatum and their mixture. In Experiment I, the plant was harvested once and there were two harvests in Experiment II and III. The results of the three experiments revealed that mycorrhizal fungi significandy infected eggplant and all mycorrhizal inoculated plants showed better performance than non inoculated plants in terms of plant growth, P and Zn uptake. According to results of Experiment I, the better mycorrrizal species were G. intraradices, G. etunicatum and G. clarum. In Experiment II, G. etunicatum and cocktail mycorrhizae and in Experiment III, G. caledonium and G. mosseae inoculums were more effective species. The results show that mycorrhizal inoculation is necessary for healthy and vigorous seedling production. Seed and seedling stages mycorrhizal inoculation can be used for high quality seedling for field inoculation.
24126835|In 1960, a breeding program was initiated in Morden, Manitoba to develop winter hardy rootstocks for cold climates and then the program was transferred to Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, Horticultural Research and Development Centre, at St-Jean-sur-Richelieu, Quebec. 'SJM167' (St-Jean Morden 167) and 'SJM188' (St-Jean Morden 188) were selected from the initial population and evaluated since 1970 in replicated trials. These two rootstocks were found to be very winter hardy, disease resistant, dwarfing, with good yield efficiency and were released for commercial evaluation and presently available from Canadian Food Inspection Agency in BC or from Meiosis Inc. in Europe (http://www.meiosis.co.uk).
24126183|This study was carried out to determine the potential and response of eggplant to intercropping with bean, cos lettuce and leaf lettuce under greenhouse conditions in 2000 and 2001. The study has shown that early and total yield of eggplant were not affected by intercropping compared to sole cropping. However, intercropping increased significantly the net income compared to sole cropping. The highest net income was obtained by the eggplant+cos lettuce intercropping system, whereas the lowest was obtained by eggplant sole cropping. Land equivalent ratios (LER) were always greater than 1 in intercropping systems. In both years, the intercropping system of eggplant+leaf lettuce gave the highest LER value as 1.21 and 1.18, respectively. Diese Untersuchungen wurden in den Jahren 2000 und 2001 durchgefhrt, um bei Auberginen unter Gewchshausbedingungen die Mglichkeiten und Reaktionen einer Unterkultur mit Buschbohnen, Rmischem Salat und Pflcksalat zu ermitteln. Dabei zeigte sich, dass die Zwischenpflanzung im Vergleich zur alleinigen Auberginenkultur keinen Einfluss auf den frhen Erntebeginn und die Erntemenge hat. Allerdings erhhte die Zwischenkultur das Nettoeinkommen erheblich. Das hchste Nettoeinkommen konnte mit der Kombination Auberginen und Rmischem Salat, das geringste mit der alleinigen Auberginenkultur erzielt werden. Die Flchenqivalentwerte (LER) lagen bei allen Zwischenkulturkombinationen ber 1. In beiden Versuchsjahren erbrachte die Kombination Auberginen und Pflcksalat den hchsten LER-Wert mit 1.21 bzw. 1.18.
24126290|24 simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers were isolated and characterized in P. pseudocerasus LindI. from the cultivar 'Laiyang Short cherry'. To amplify SSR loci primers were developed to flank each repeat region. and they were initially tested on 6 cherry samples using chemiluminescence detection. 18 loci where shown to be polymorphic and the number of alleles detected per locus varied from 2 to 6. 12 loci were chosen for the analysis of 26 cultivars grown in North China using the semi-automatic system ABI PRISM 377. These 12 markers showed a high level of genetic polymorphism with a total of 75 alleles; the number of alleles ranged from 4 to 10 per locus, with an average level of 6.3. The mean expected and observed heterozygosity was 0.743 (range: 0.6800.845) and 0.829 (range: 0.7300.930) respectively. The estimated frequency of null alleles showed a positive value for 3 loci, but except for 1 locus, the values were very low. The total value for the probability of identity was 7.0110-13. Paternity exclusion probability was very high (0.999), sufficiently high to study pollen flow.
24126233|The objective of the study was to determine the responses of rose flower buds to aerial environmental conditions. Since environmental conditions may affect various plant organs differently, it was important to determine the contribution of these organs to bud development. Rose plants were grown in a greenhouse in southern Israel for three years under different cooling systems throughout the summer. Evaporative cooling with a wet pad was the most effective system for preventing a decline in plant water potential, mainly during midsummer. Water potential of the flower bud was higher than that of the stem, regardless of season and treatment. The season of flower development had the most marked effect on flower bud fresh weight. Night cooling during spring and early summer was the only treatment that provided a slight increase in flower bud weight and in its relative weight out of the total flower weight. The increase in flower bud diameter was nearly linear with time, regardless of season, while stem elongation was logarithmic and then leveled off. The development of both organs extended much longer in the winter than in the summer, resulting in longer stems and larger buds. A mechanistic model was developed in order to determine the relative contribution of various organs to the bud. The flower stem and leaves contributed 50 to 67 % of the final bud dry weight, while the rest was comprised of the bud sepals, small bent branches and structural branches. The contribution by the bud sepals, was markedly enhanced, by night cooling. Fresh weight of the flower bud was highly correlated with flower leaf area and weight (including stem weight) but not with stem length. Gegenstand der Untersuchung war, die Reaktionen von Rosenbltenknospen auf atmosphrische Bedingungen im Gewchshaus zu ermitteln. Da diese Umweltbedingungen vermutlich unterschiedlich stark auf die einzelnen Pflanzenorgane einwirken, war es wichtig den Beitrag, den diese Organe zur Knospenbildung leisten, zu untersuchen. Hierfr wurden im Sden Israels drei Jahre lang Rosen in Gewchshusern kultiviert, die whrend des Sommers mittels unterschiedlicher Methoden gekhlt wurden. Verdunstungskhlung mit Khlmatten war die wirkungsvollste Methode, um vor allem im Hochsommer einen Rckgang des Pflanzenwasserpotentials zu verhindern. Das Wasserpotential der Bltenknospen war unabhngig von Jahreszeit und Behandlung hher als das der Stngel. Die Jahreszeit, in der sich die Blten entwickelten, hatte den deutlichsten Effekt auf das Bltenknospenfrischgewicht. Nchtliche Khlung im Frhjahr und Frhsommer war die einzige Behandlung, die zu einem geringfgigen Anstieg des Bltenknospengewichts und des relativen Gewichts im Verhltnis zum Bltengesamtgewicht fhrte. Der Anstieg des Bltenknospendurchmessers war unabhngig von der Jahreszeit annhernd linear zur Entwicklungsdauer, whrend das Lngenwachstum des Stngels einen logarithmischen Verlauf nahm und dann abflachte. Die Entwicklung beider Organe dauerte im Winter sehr viel lnger als im Sommer und fhrte zu lngeren Stngeln und greren Knospen. Es wurde ein Modell entwickelt, um den relativen Beitrag der einzelnen Organe zur Knospe zu bestimmen. Der Bltenstngel und die Bltter erbringen 50 bis 67 % des endgltigen Knospentrockengewichts, whrend der Rest aus den Kelchblttern, kleinen Nebentrieben und dem Pflanzengrundgerst entsteht. Der Beitrag der Kelchbltter wird durch Nachtkhlung deutlich erhht. Das Frischgewicht der Bltenknospen war stark mit der Bltenblattflche und dem Gewicht (einschlielich Stngelgewicht) jedoch nicht mit der Stngellnge korreliert.
24126868|Deficit irrigation (DI) at phenological stages less sensitive to water stress (pit hardening and post-harvest stage) influenced fruit quality, plant growth, return bloom and incidence of double fruits in nectarines. Four irrigation levels: control irrigation (CI), DI 75 (75 % of CI), DI 58 (58 % of CI) and DI 33 (33 % of DI) were applied in 'Spring Bright" and 'Summer Bright' nectarines during pit hardening and post-harvest stages. DI 58 and DI 33 treatments resulted in development of intense red fruit colour and early maturity in 'Spring Bright'. DI 33 improved fruit colour in 'Summer Bright', soluble solids concentrations (SSC) and SSC/acid ratio in both cultivars. DI 33 treatment decreased glucose and fructose at harvest in 'Spring Bright' and increased glucose in 'Summer Bright". DI 58 and DI 33 treatments improved the levels of total phenolics, antioxidant capacity, ascorbic acid and carotenoids in the fruit of both cultivars with acceptable fruit weight in comparison to CI. DI 33 treatment significantly increased the total anthocyanin content in fruit peel and reduced water sprout length in both cultivars. In subsequent season, the DI 58 and DI 33 treatments increased flower density in 'Spring Bright" and incidence of double fruit in either cultivar. Conclusively, DI improved fruit colour, SSC/acid ratio and nutraceutical levels; and reduced water sprout length. Further, it increased flower density and double fruits in the subsequent season.
24126334|Thyme (Thymus vulgaris L.) is a medicine and spice plant, which is cultivated in Poland, Spain, the South of France, Italy, Greece and Germany. The full flower of thyme plants can be induced only after winters with low temperatures. An artificial vernalisation at 3 C for six weeks induced the flowers. Sixteen hours lighting were needed for an optimal development of the full flowers. The artificial flower induction can accelerate the generation cycle of thyme. Crossing works were independent of the natural development rhythm of plants. The seed yields of progeny individuals with vernalisation can be increased. Additionally, vernalisation increased the herb yields in autumn. The vernalisation can be used to accelerate breeding programs and to improve the appearance for sale as ornamental plant.
24126905|In Scandinavia, red fescue (Festuca rubra) requires less pesticides, fertilizers, irrigation water and energy for mowing than other species used on golf greens. USGA golf greens have traditionally been constructed with peat as organic amendment to the sand-based rootzone, but compost could be a sustainable alternative. Our objective was to evalute the effects of using composted garden waste (commercial product 'Green Mix'; GM) in the rootzone or topdressing sand during grow-in and maintenance of a young green aiming for a monoculture of red fescue. A field trial was carried out from Aug. 2011 to Nov. 2012 at Bioforsk Landvik, SE Norway. GM rootzones were compared with peat-amended rootzones and GM topdress with straight sand topdress in a factorial design with four treatment and four blocks. Plots were seeded with 97 % red fescue and 3 % annual bluegrass (Poa annua) to study the competition between the two species. Because of a higher nutrient content, fertilizer inputs during grow-in from August to November 2011 were 50 % lower to the GM rootzones than to the peat-amended rootzones, but this reduced the tiller density by 34 % suggesting that a lower reduction in fertilizer inputs had been more appropriate. In 2012, when all plots received the same amount of fertilizer, GM in the rootzone and/or topdress gave significant improvements in turfgrass general appearance, tiller density, autumn color and resistance to red thread (Laetisaria fuciformis), but annual bluegrass encroachment was worse on GM rootzones than on peat-amended rootzones until July 2012 when it disappeared from all treatments. The percentage of roots colonized by mycorrhiza was slightly but significantly higher for annual bluegrass than for red fescue in spring 2012 and became three times higher on GM rootzones than on peat-amended rootzones during 2012. In conclusion, there are many benefits of using mature and homogeneous compost of garden waste in the rootzones and topdress on red fescue golf greens.
24126824|This study was conducted to delay fruit ripening and enhance fruit quality (size and firmness) of cv. '0900 Ziraat' sweet cherry in Hirkey. For this purpose, ReTain containing 15 % aminoethoxyinylglycine (AVG), was applied at various concentrations (0, 50, or 150 mg L-1) onto fruits and leaves around the fruits of 10-years-old cv. '0900 Ziraat' sweet cherry on 'Gisela 5' dwarf rootstock at the straw-yellow stage (about 3035 days prior to the harvest). Fruit maturity was delayed about 46 days in AVG-applied (50 and 100 mg L-1) fruits. Application of AVG increased the fruit size and fruit mass of cv '0900 Ziraat' sweet cherry. All AVG concentrations led to firmer fruit relative to the unsprayed control fruits. Effects of AVG concentrations on SSC were not significant. Application of AVG decreased the ethylene efflux from the cherry fruit. As a result, application of AVG at 50 or 100 mg L-1 concentrations at the straw-yellow stage for '0900 Ziraat' sweet cherry variety can be recommended in situations and countries, where this compound is officially approved.
24126382|With the aim of exploiting the regenerative capability of sweet cherry (Prunus avium L.) 'Giorgia', experiments were carried out using suitable plant tissue cultures established in vitro. Relatively high percentages of adventitious shoot regeneration were consistently obtained from in vitro leaves, wounded by three cuts transversely to the midrib, excised from 3-week-old proliferating shoots. The regeneration capacity was influenced by the mineral salts and the plant growth regulator (PGR) composition of the regeneration medium: Woody Plant Medium (WPM) gave the best results and 22.7 M of 1-Phenyl-3-(1,2,3-thiazol-5-yl)urea (thidiazuron, TDZ) induced most adventitious regeneration. The pre-culture of the donor shoots on MS medium with phloroglucinol (PG)-added improved the regeneration rate. Histological studies demonstrated the origin of the adventitious shoots from callus formed by epidermal and sub-epidermal cells as well as by the inner cells of the vascular bundles.
24127097|The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of cultivar, packing material and storage time on the content of phenolic acids and flavonoids in elderflower tea (ET) processed from flowers of the black elder (Sambucus nigra) cultivars 'Sampo', 'Sambu' and 'Samyl'. ET was processed by placing elderflowers in a thin layer on nylon screens in woody frames placed in a cool room and dried using a dehumidified air flow above and below the nylon screens for 96 h at 5 C. The yield of ET for the cultivars 'Sampo', 'Sambu' and 'Samyl' were 12.8 %, 15.7 % and 8.9 %, respectively. A clear significant difference in the content of polyphenols was found between ET processed from die three cultivars. The total content of phenolic acids was significant higher in 'Samyl' (41.3 mg g-1 ET) compared to 'Sampo' (33.8 mg g-1 ET) and 'Sambu' (34.0 mg g-1 ET). 'Sambu' had the lowest content of flavonoids (25.7 mg g-1 ET), whereas the highest content was found in 'Sampo' (33.5 mg g-1 ET). ET samples were packed in bags of brown paper at normal pressure and under vacuum in polyethylene plastic bags and in aluminium foil bags comprised of polyamide, aluminium and polyethylene, respectively, and stored at 0 (non-stored), 3, 6, 9, 12, 15,18 and 21 months. Principal components analysis and multiple linear regression analysis taking into account the correlation and interactions between packing material, storage time and cultivar showed, however, that packing materials and storage time only had a minor effect on the content of phenolic acids and flavonoids in ET. The overall conclusion of the following study is that polyphenols in ET are relatively stable during storage up to 21 months and that the content of phenolic acids and flavonoids in ET is mainly determined by the choice of cultivar/genotype. To maintain a good flavour of ET during storage paper bags are clearly less preferable than aluminium foil and plastic packing materials and therefore the best choice of packing material for ET seem to be aluminium foil based packing materials.
24126448|Production of Vaccinium corymbosum L. is limited to acidic soils with high organic matter content. This specific soil requirement is limiting the possibilities to cultivate V. corymbosum L. in many regions of Central Europe. The aim of this study was to overcome the limiting production factors occurring under the soil and climate conditions of Switzerland: (1) evaluation of natural growing substrates without peat as required for organic production; (2) adjustment of the optimal pH in the growing substrate; (3) regulation of water issues (water quality and mulching) and (4) development of a suited planting system. Pine sawdust was evaluated to be the best alternative growing substrate compared to peat moss. Optimal pH adjustment in pine sawdust substrate was found to be 3.8 (CaCl2) and 4.2 (H2O). In field cultivation, an amount of 30 g S year-1 plant-1 to lower the pH of the pine sawdust ditches was sufficient for good plant and yield development. This acidification resulted in better growth (+48 %) and higher yield (+55 %) when alkaline ground water (357 mg L-1 CaCO3) was used for irrigation. Acidification with citric acid gave poor results. A mulch of pine bark on the sawdust ridge increased growth by 59 % and yield by 25 %.The newly developed flat ditch system with low sawdust ditches buried partly into the ground was as suitable as the standard planting system with deep ditches lined with plastic film. By integration and application of these new findings, a system for commercial organic blueberry production under Swiss conditions and on alkaline soils was developed.
24126629|A time-course analysis of photosynthetic pigment, phenolic, and protein contents was performed on Pelargonium peltatum 'Ville de Paris Red' leaf tissue from the initial cuttings to market maturity, in regard to brown algae [Ecklonia maxima (Osbeck) Papenfuss] extract treatment (Kelpak). Twenty three days after severance a transient decline in total protein values was accompanied by an increased accumulation of total phenolics in all Kelpak applications. The maximum chlorophyll a (110 %), chlorophyll b (44 %) and carotenoid (30 %) contents were measured in leaves of 0.5 % Kelpak treated cuttings when compared to untreated controls. Thirty six days after severance, a more than 220 % increase in total protein contents and a 50 % decline in total phenolics were recorded in untreated cuttings when compared to the previous sampling date. Proteins had accumulated to a significantly higher level, when plants were treated with different Kelpak concentrations. Thirty six days after severance, the highest chlorophyll a (166 %), chlorophyll b (80 %), and total phenolic contents were found in 2.0 % Kelpak treated cuttings when compared to the controls. From the initial cutting to the phase of market maturity, the maximum increases in chl a (185 %), chl b (130 %), lutein (100 %), and tene-caro (222 %) levels, were obtained when the cuttings were treated with 2.0 % Kelpak solution. We further noticed a statistically significant increase in shoot fresh mass for all Kelpak applications when compared to untreated controls, but the highest root fresh mass and shoot/root ratio as well as the maximum number of leaves had developed 2.0 % Kelpak treated cuttings.
24134265|One of the major disorders that develop during storage in Asian pears is fruit internal browning (IB) of the core and/or flesh. The relationship between IB, ascorbic acid (AA) concentrations, total phenolic content (TPC) or polyphenoloxidase (PPO) activity during five months storage was investigated in Asian pear fruit. Mature Asian pear (Pyrus serotina Rehd.) trees cultivar 'KS'13 grown on European pear seedling rootstocks were used during the 2006 growing season. Fruit were harvested on August 1 (H1) and August 15 (H2), representing early and late harvest for this cultivar. Fruit were picked according to the maturity standard based on soluble solid content (SSC), titrable acidity (TA), firmness and background colour and stored at 1 C and 8085 % relative humidity (RH). Results indicated that IB incidence was higher in fruit from H2 than H1. The activity of PPO in disordered fruit varied with the intensity of the disorder. Ascorbic acid decreased during long-term storage and was lower in H2 fruit compared with H1 fruit. There was a trend for IB to develop when the AA concentration dropped below a threshold. This threshold value depended on picking date and time elapsed from storage and varied between about 3.3 to 9.4 mg 100 g-1 FW. The amount of TPC declined during storage in both H1 and H2 fruit as PPO activity and intensity of IB damage increased. It is suggested that the lower incidence of IB in earlier harvested fruit was a result of the presence of a higher level of AA and a lower level of PPO activity than in later harvested fruit.
24126817|Abscission agents could reduce the damage to grapes and the volume of juice released during mechanical harvesting, avoiding undesirable oxidation and fermentation processes before the winemaking begins. Plant growth regulators such as ethephon or methyl jasmonate have been shown to be effective separately to reduce fruit detachment force (FDF) in different grapevine cultivars, however, additive and interaction effects of both products in combined treatments have not been evaluated yet. The objective of this study was to evaluate the potential use of ethephon and methyl jasmonate, separately or in combination, as abscission agents to improve the quality of machine-harvested 'Verdejo' wine grapes. The experiments were conducted in 2009, 2010 and 2011, using a fully crossed factorial design where mature clusters of 'Verdejo' grapevines were sprayed with different solutions containing methyl jasmonate (0, 10, 20 or 40 mmol L-1) and ethephon (0 or 1000 mg L-1). FDF and stem end condition of the berries were monitored for a maximum of 8 days after the applications. Ethephon reduced FDF 4 days after treatment in all growing seasons, maintaining values below those of controls until harvest. Methyl jasmonate had less effect than ethephon and declined FDF from 68 days after the sprayings. An additive effect was detected in the analysis of variance, which makes the combination of ethephon and methyl jasmonate more effective than either agent alone. The lowest FDF values just before harvest corresponded to cotreated plants, with reductions up to 45 % relative to untreated controls. Moreover, combined treatments significantly increased the percentage of detached berries presenting dry stem scars up to 8 days after the application, reaching accumulated values up to 60% in 2011. Both abscission agents little affected must composition parameters, and did not produce adverse effects as preharvest fruit drop or defoliation. These results demonstrate that combined treatments with ethephon and methyl jasmonate are potentially useful to improve quality of mechanically harvested 'Verdejo' grapes. Additional research is needed to provide the exact concentrations of abscission agents required for consistent fruit loosening in practical applications, and to establish the optimal harvester settings in treated vineyards at different growing sites.
24126376|In greenhouse production planning and control both, the greenhouse climate and cost of conditioning are of particular importance. To estimate greenhouse climate, respective plant growth and energy demand the external climatic conditions of the sites have to be processed. The suitability's of Long term normals (Ltn, long term means) and Reference years (Blmel et al. 1986) were tested. The Reference years are considered adequate to forecast the most probable climate for special periods. To derive seasonal trends Ltn are preferred. On the basis of these data and the advanced models of Rath (1992, 1994, 2004, 2007) greenhouse climate and energy demand for heating were estimated. The models of Rath enable to parameterise radiation and air as well as soil temperature in greenhouses as a function of the climate of sites, greenhouse size and type (Venlo block, Wide span greenhouse, height of side panel), energy saving installations (single and double glass, energy screens) and set point for heating. The energy demand for heating (Rath 1994) is calculated on hourly basis for the respective conditions considering ventilation, heat storage in the soil and wind speed.
24127095|Off-season (OS) cropping of Curcuma alismatifolia Gagnep. in Thailand results in a decline in plant growth and flowers quality compared to regular season (RS) cropping. This may be due to the distinct climatic conditions in OS such as short day length, low temperature, water stress etc. which induce changes in some endogenous hormones and alter plant growth and development. The experiments in two cropping season (RS and OS) were conducted to examine the changes to endogenous hormones i.e. abscisic acid, trans-zeatin riboside and indole-3-acetic acid, during the growth cycle. The result indicated that OS cropping brought about a decrease in plant height and flower quality but significantly stimulated the formation of rhizomes compare with RS cropping. The levels of ABA in leaves, old rhizomes and old storage roots were higher and consistently increased during off-season cropping. The maximum concentration of ABA was up to 2.2 g gDW-1 in leaves, 1.4 g gDW-1 in old rhizomes, 1.0 g gDW-1 in old storage roots, 2.3 g gDW-1 in inflorescence, 0.9 g gDW-1 in new rhizomes, and 0.9 g gDW-1 in new storage roots. The levels of ABA in RS cropping were relatively constant throughout growth stages and mostly less than 0.1 g gDW-1. The levels of t-ZR were also slightly higher in leaves, old rhizomes, old storage roots, inflorescence and new rhizomes in OS than RS cropping. The increase of t-ZR in new rhizomes may cause the larger number of new rhizomes in OS cropping (4.8 per plant). The concentration of IAA in leaf exudates was similar between the two growth seasons except in the final stage. Therefore, it could be concluded that OS conditions induced a decrease in the photosynthetic rate, and increases in ABA and t-ZR concentrations in various organs at different growth stages, leading to depressed shoot growth and an increase in rhizome numbers.
24126323|Bell pepper 'Fiesta' (Capsicum annuum L.) was grown in a novel dynamic climate concept called 'Intelli-Grow' together with a number of potted plants aiming to save energy under low light conditions and to optimise photosynthesis (and thereby carbon gain that can be used for growth) under high light conditions. The dynamic climates utilize the plants ability to increase the photosynthesis and productivity under adequate light conditions by allowing temperature to increase while supplying the plants with extra CO2. Energy is saved by allowing the temperature to decrease to lower levels than usual at low light conditions, when the temperature response curve of photosynthesis is very flat. Both temperature and CO2 is determined by the light level (light dependent temperature and CO2 increase in the climate computer). It is possible to reduce the energy use needed for bell pepper growing by up to 21 % in this experiment depending on climate control strategy. Temperatures below 17C results in reduced fruit quality in terms of size and quality and increased risk of grey mould and also a delay in the harvest start. On the other hand the total number of fruits was not affected in a similar way. The standard climate 21/19 day/night with 600 ppm CO2 in light and the dynamic climate using 80% photosynthesis and a minimum temperature set point of 17C, especially in combination with short peaks of higher night temperature gave the same or better harvest and approximately the same quality. The fruits in the warmest climate, however, had a slightly lower dry matter-%. There were limited damages (spots, sun burns) due to the relatively higher temperatures during the day even thought the air temperature was allowed to rise to 30 C during the days. The increased CO2 level might have alleviated some of the potential damages due to high fruit temperatures. The major problem was remains of the flowers on the fruits, which created an entry point for grey mould. The post harvest quality of the fruits was therefore poorer in the dynamic climates due to infection with Botrytis primarily through the flowers and secondarily through the fruit stem. A modified energy saving strategy therefore requires a change in harvest procedure to remove flower remains. Gemse-Paprika (Capsicum annuum L.) der Sorte 'Fiesta' wurde zusammen mit zahlreichen getopften Pflanzen mittels einer neuartigen dynamischen Klimasteuerung ('IntelliGrow') kultiviert. Ziel der Untersuchung war, unter Schwachlichtbedingungen Energie einzusparen und bei hohem Lichtangebot den Photosynthesevorgang zu optimieren (der dabei erzielte Kohlenstoffgewinn kann fr das Wachstum genutzt werden). Die dynamische Klimaregulierung nutzt die Fhigkeit der Pflanzen, die Photosyntheseleistung unter entsprechenden Lichtbedingungen zu erhhen, indem sie hhere Temperaturen zult und die Pflanzen dabei mit zustzlichem CO2 versorgt. Energie wird dadurch gespart, dass die Temperatur unter Schwachlichtbedingungen, wenn die Temperaturreaktionskurve der Photosynthese sehr flach ist, tiefer als allgemein blich fallen darf. Beides, Temperatur und CO2 wird durch die Lichtmenge bestimmt (lichtabhngige Temperatur und CO2 steigen im Klimacomputer an). Diese Untersuchung zeigt, dass es abhngig von der gewhlten Klimastrategie mglich ist, den Energiebedarf bei der Paprikaproduktion um 21 % zu senken. Temperaturen unter 17C bewirken schlechtere Fruchteigenschaften wie abnehmende Gre und Qualitt, erhhten Grauschimmelbefall und verzgerten Erntebeginn. Der Einfluss auf die Anzahl Frchte ist allerdings weniger deutlich. Die Standardklimabedingungen mit 21/19C Tag/ Nachttemperatur und 600 ppm CO2 whrend der Lichtphase und die dynamische Klimabedingungen mit 80 % Photosynthese und einem Minimumtemperatur-Fixpunkt von 17C, v.a. in Kombination mit kurzen Phasen hherer Nachttemperatur, erbrachte eine vergleichbare oder bessere Ernte bei annhernd gleicher Qualitt. Die Frchte, die unter den wrmsten Klimabedingungen gewachsen waren, hatten allerdings einen etwas geringeren Trockensubstanzanteil. Bedingt durch die hheren Temperaturen whrend des Tages, die Lufttemperatur konnte bis auf 30C ansteigen, traten begrenzte Schden (Flecken, Sonnenbrand) auf. Die gesteigerte CO2Menge knnte einen Teil der durch eine hohe Fruchttemperatur verursachten, Schdigungen gelindert haben. Das Hauptproblem stellten die Bltenrckstnde als Angriffsflchen fr Grauschimmel dar. Die Nacherntequalitt der Frchte aus  der dynamischen Klimasteuerung war durch die Botrytis-Infektion, die in erster Linie ber die Blten und in zweiter ber den Fruchtstiel kam, geringer. Eine modifizierte Energiesparmethode bedarf deshalb einer nderung des Erntevorgangs durch zustzliches Entfernen der Bltenrckstnde.
24126271|Seasonal dynamics of the carbohydrates sorbitol, sucrose, glucose and fructose in fruits, leaves and bark and photosynthetic activity were followed in 12-year-old cv. 'Golden Delicious' apple (Malus domestica Borkh.) in response to defruiting in mid August. Photosynthetic activity of leaves decreased in the trees defruited in August compared to fruiting trees in the second half of August. In the mid-season, leaf carbohydrates were slightly but not significantly increased in defruited trees, which could suggest that the observed photosynthetic response is a result of sink-limitation. There were only minor differences observed when leaf, fruit and bark carbohydrates were compared for fruiting and defruited trees, which indicates tha.t early defruiting in August did not significantly change carbohydrate translocation. Bark carbohydrates increased towards the end of the season, which underlines previous findings that the bark acts as a storage organ for spring growth in deciduous trees, such as apple. Die Dynamik der Kohlenhydrate Sorbitol, Saccharose, Glucose und Fructose in Frchten, Blttern und in der Rinde 12-jhriger Apfelbumen der Sorte 'Golden Delicious' wurde whrend einer Vegetationsperiode verfolgt und der Effekt des Entfernens der Frchte Mitte August bestimmt. Die photosynthetische Aktivitt der Bltter der entfruchteten Apfelbume nahm im Vergleich zu den fruchttragenden Bumen in der zweiten Augusthlfte deutlich ab. Die Konzentration der Kohlenhydrate in den Blttern nahm nach dem Entfernen der Frchte Mitte August wenig, aber nicht signifikant zu, was ein Zeichen fr die Abhngigkeit der gemessenen photosynthetischen Aktivitt von der Sink-Aktivitt sein knnte. Die Kohlenhydratkonzentrationen in den Blttern, Frchten und in der Rinde unterschieden sich kaum zwischen den fruchttragenden und entfruchteten Bumen. Damit wurde gezeigt, dass die Entfruchtung der Bume Mitte August die Kohlenhydratverlagerung kaum beeinflusste. Die Kohlenhydratkonzentrationen in der Rinde nahmen gegen Ende der Saison zu. Damit konnten einige vorherige Ergebnisse besttigt werden, dass die Rinde als Reserveorgan fr das Wachstum in Frhjahr dient.
24126803|The fruit of 'Opal' and 'Victoria' plums (Prunus domestica L.) were harvested at commercial harvest time at the Ullensvang Research Centre, western Norway. The fruit were sorted into three maturity groups (MG13) according to their visual surface colour: green, pink and bluish-red for 'Opal', and green, pink and violetred for 'Victoria', combined with their initial firmness, as evaluated by finger pressure. Their size, weight, soluble solids content, sensory firmness assessment, and colour parameters L* (lightness), a* (green/red) and b* (blue/yellow) were measured, and the Chroma and Hue angle indices and the colour index for red grapes (CIRG) were calculated. The fruit of increasing maturity were established across the maturity groups, as indicated by both increased soluble solids content and decreased the sensory firmness assessment from MG1 to MG3. The differences in the colour parameters and indices between the fruit in the three maturity groups were more or less similar for both cultivars. MG2 contained fruit that appeared to be a mixture of MG1 and MG3 fruits in terms of the colours, which resulted in large standard deviations for the colour parameters/indices in MG2. This appeared to cause the problem of sorting these plum cultivars by colour, whereby surface colour development during on-tree ripening along with the colour parameters/indices did not allow visual sorting of the fruit into three maturity groups. None of the colour parameters/indices correlated systematically and significantly with the quality parameters of weight, size, soluble solids content and the sensory firmness assessment within each of the maturity groups. However, high and systematic correlations were found between soluble solids content and the sensory firmness assessment on the one hand, and all of the colour parameters/indices on the other, when calculated over the total test material of each cultivar.
24126657|The availability of water in the substrate (compost) depends on the substrate's water potential, which is the sum of osmotic, and matric potential. In a commercial culture, the water potential of the substrate decreased from 1.4 MPa at casing to 2.6 MPa after flush 4, the osmotic potential from 1.4 to 2.4 MPa. Matric potentials were in the range of 0 to 0.3 MPa. The water potential of the substrate is determined to a large extend by the osmotic potential. Even in dry substrate, the matric potential is a minor fraction of the water potential. To increase the water potential, the osmotic potential has to be increased by lowering the concentration of solutes. The concentration of solutes, which are no nutrient for the mushroom, should be as low as possible. Water potentials of sporophore tissue were between 0.6 and 0.9 MPa, osmotic potentials between 1.0 and 1.35 MPa and pressure potentials (turgor) between 0.3 and 0.5 MPa. Based on water potentials of the substrate and of the sporophore tissue, water is most likely translocated from the substrate to the sporophores in a driven mass flow.
24126830|Plants of Origanum vulgare ssp. hirtum (Greek oregano) were cultivated in two years in a cool temperate climate and the aerial parts were harvested at up to five different development stages during the growing season (July to late August) in order to investigate how the content of volatile terpenes and polyphenols depends on the development stage of the plants. Volatile terpenes were identified and quantified in dichloromethane extracts by GC-MS and GC-FID, respectively. Polyphenols were quantified in aqueous methanol extracts by RP-HPLC-PDA and identified by LC-PDA-MS and NMR spectroscopy. Significant changes in the concentrations and composition of major volatile terpenes (carvacrol, -terpinene, p-cymene, myrcene, -pinene, -caryophyllene, thymol) were observed at the different development stages. The content of volatile terpenes varied from 3.7-4.9 % (year 1) and 2.6-4.6 % (year 2). The potential yields of total volatile terpenes varied from 74-165 kg ha-1 (year 1) and 31-79 kg ha-1 (year 2) being highest near full flowering stage (50-60% open flowers). Major polyphenols were eriodictyol 6,8-di-C-glucoside, apigenin 6,8-di-C-glucoside, luteolin 7-O-glucuronide, epi-lithospermic acid B, lithospermic acid B and rosmarinic acid. The content of flavonoids varied from 4.8-7.7 mg g-1 dry matter (DM) (year 1) and 8.912.4 mg g-1 DM (year 2), and phenolic acids from 1.410.1 mg g-1 DM (year 1) and 23.4-51.5 mg g-1 DM (year 2). The highest content of flavonoids in aerial parts was obtained near full flowering stage and for phenolic acids earlier at around 10-20 % open flowers. The conclusion of this study is that also in a cool temperate climate the development stage has a significant impact on the content and composition of both volatile terpenes and polyphenols in O. vulgare ssp. hirtum, and that an optimal harvest time of aerial parts of this plant depends on the secondary metabolites of interest.
24126122|From two dahlia genotypes seed was harvested from open pollinated flowers and from flowers covered with polyethylene bags. Although protected from pollinating insects the latter produced viable seed. Analyses with RAPD markers could demonstrate that all of the plants from seed obtained under protection were most probably the result of self-pollination whereas 94.0 % and 87.5 % of the open pollinated seed resulted from out crossing. These results indicate that: 1. despite an old debate about the self-fertility of dahlias some genotypes can be easily self pollinated and therefore do not possess a self incompatibility system 2. the out crossing rate of open pollinated progeny approaches or exceeds 90 %. Further studies on the utilisation of molecular markers using simulation studies indicated that the number of RAPD markers utilised in the present study is sufficient to identify most of the out crossed progeny. The consequences of these findings are discussed in respect to elaborate breeding strategies for garden dahlias. Nachkommenschaften zweier Gartendahlien wurden jeweils sowohl durch offene Abblte in Mischbestnden als auch durch Abblte unter Polyethylenbeuteln erhalten. Beide Behandlungen fhrten fr die untersuchten Genotypen zu vitalen Nachkommenschaften, die im Anschluss mit RAPD Markern im Vergleich zu den Elterngenotypen untersucht wurden. Dabei zeigte sich, dass: 1. alle Nachkommen aus dem Selbstbestubungsversuch unter Polyethylenbeuteln aus Selbstbefruchtung resultieren, einige Dahlien-Genotypen also kein Selbstinkompatibilittssystem besitzen und 2. die berwiegende Zahl der Nachkommen aus freier Abblte aus Fremdbefruchtung resultieren und die Auskreuzungsrate unter diesen Bedingungen 90 % bersteigen kann.
24126912|Turf grasses are a potential groundcover for green roof systems. The current study investigates the evapotranspiration rates and drought tolerance of Festuca arundinacea 'Plantation' when growing on extensive green roof systems. The study was conducted in 2011 and replicated on 2012. It was comprised of outdoor lysimeters that were equipped with all green roof drainage layers and had different depths in order to host either 7.5 or 15.0 cm of substrate. Treatments included two substrate depths (7.5 cm or 15 cm) and two irrigation regimes, 85 % of the evapotranspiration rate (ET) and 65 % ET. Measurements included substrate moisture content, Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI), leaf stomatal resistance (LSR), and the evapotranspirational rate based on lysimeter weighing. It was found that the higher irrigation regime of 85 % ET increased NDVI, compared to 65 % ET. Similarly, increasing substrate depth from 7.5 to 15.0 cm increased NDVI. In contrast LSR was affected by irrigation regime only on the first study year but it was not affected from substrate depth. Evapotranspiration increased significantly at the higher irrigation regime compared to the lower one, while there were no differences between the two substrate depths. In conclusion both irrigation regime and substrate depth seem to be important for F. arundinacea growth indices during a water deficit period. However, only irrigation regime increased evapotranspiration rate while substrate depth did not.
24126887|Nutrient loading is a fertilization concept with the aim to increase the N-, P- and K-concentration in the plant without changing its size. It can be carried out by a conventional or by an exponential method, which differ in the delivery schedule of nutrients. Nutrient loaded plants are assumed to perform better after outplanting compared to non-loaded ones because the former are capable of remobilizing sufficient nutrient reserves. An experiment was set up with a landscape plant, Rosa majalis, to investigate the effect of nutrient loading on growth, N-, P- and K-concentration at the end of the nursery period and on performance one year after outplanting. For conventional loading a slow-release fertilizer was added to the growing medium at potting; exponential loading was carried out with a liquid fertilizer given in exponentially increasing concentration during the vegetation period. In both methods a multinutrient (15 % N, 9 % P2O5,12 % K2O, 2 % MgO and micronutrients) fertilizer was used. Concerning N, 0.8 g N l-1 substrate was added in the non-loading treatment and 2.4 g N l-1 in the loading treatments, other nutrients were given according to the composition of the fertilizer. Nutrient loading was achieved for N and P, not for K. Conventionally loaded plants suffered from salt stress due to a high release rate of nutrients from the slow-release fertilizer during a hot period. Plants were outplanted in autumn. One year after outplanting there were no differences in growth between the previously differendy fertilized plants.
24126362|A series of 5 experiments was conducted to establish whether the quality of rooted cuttings has any effect on the appearance of cut chrysanthemums (Chrysanthemum indicum hybrids). Three different chrysanthemum cultivars were examined in a greenhouse (in summer and winter), where the N content of the cuttings (low, moderate and high), the cutting size (small and large) and the root number (full and half) were varied. In a homogeneous group of rooted cuttings, both the N content of the cuttings and the root number were of minor importance, provided that the nutrient and water conditions were not restrictive. However, if rooted cuttings with full and half root numbers were planted side by side in a common bed, the number of flowers and stem weights were lower for the cuttings with the half root count (and accordingly higher for the cuttings with the full root count) than in the corresponding homogeneous group. Cutting size had a major influence on the quality of the cut stems especially in mixed planting. Large cuttings planted in the homogeneous bed had more 5.4 flowers and 25.4 g higher stem weight as compared to small cuttings. These differences were even greater in mixed planting resulting in more than 11.6 flowers and higher stem weight of 31.5 g across all cultivars. Differences in the quality characteristics of the rooted cuttings were not reduced with time in the mixed bed. Therefore, it was concluded that competition in a mixed bed serves to heighten and aggravate the quality differences of rooted cuttings.
24126442|Lobelia erinus hybrids are important bedding plants worldwide. Despite their significance, information about their breeding history is scarce. An interspecific background can be assumed, however, only a few reports about interspecific hybridisation of Lobelia erinus hybrids are available. So far, Lobelia plants up to the hexaploid level have been known. This work reports for the first time on an octoploid Lobelia (2n=8x=56) which was obtained by mutagenesis of a diploid Lobelia speciosa. Furthermore, this paper demonstrates that cross-combination of the octoploid mutant with tetraploid Lobelia erinus hybrids results in hexaploid plants.
24126222|Several investigations show that flowers are a preferable food source for the western flower thrips, Frankliniella occidentalis (Pergande) (Thysanoptera: Thripidae). A study was initiated to see how population growth of a F. occidentalis population on greenhouse grown chrysanthemum was affected by flower growth and development. The hypothesis was that the relative reproduction rate of thrips was not constant over time but increased when flowers were available. Plants of the chrysanthemum pot plant cultivar 'Lompoc' were infested with female western flower thrips and grown at three different temperatures. The results showed that thrips growth and development was stimulated by an increased temperature, and that the increase was not correlated with the effect of temperature on chrysanthemum flower development. Since there was no significant difference between thrips grown on plants with or without flowers, the original hypothesis could not be supported. The results indicated further that the relative reproduction rate increased over time. A growth equation with an exponentially increasing relative reproduction rate fitted the data better (R2-values from 0.529 to 0.826) than a traditional exponential equation (R2-values from 0.434 to 0.728). It was proposed that intrinsic factors within the population, such as population density, the probability of finding a mating partner, and the switching from parthenogenesis to sexual reproduction, were the cause for the increasing relative reproduction rate during early population growth.
24126671|Results of a 2-year structural analysis of indeterminate tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.) cultivated during different seasons under protected cultivation (ventilated greenhouses with PE-film roofs and PE-net walls) in the humid tropics of Central Thailand are presented. Under the prevailing high-radiation conditions ( 35.9 MJ m-2 outside and 23.7 MJ m-2 inside of the greenhouse), total dry-mass production was 2.6 g MJ-1 and similar to regions at greater latitude with much lower global radiation. Plant density (2.1 plants m-2 in single rows vs. 4.2 plants m-2 in double rows) had no meaningful effect on biomass production and partitioning on a per-plant basis as well as on internode length and specific leaf area (SLA) indicating that availability of light had only limited effect on growth in closer stands. Although crop growth rate (CGR) was comparable to other studies (3-14 g dry mass m-2 day-1), biomass partitioning into individual plant organs was not. The most striking difference to greenhouse tomato production at greater latitude was the low percentage (16-19 %) of total biomass distributed to fruits. Crop responses to lack of sink strength resulting from poor fruit set were deformed leaves and accelerated growth of auxiliary shoots. When canopy density was increased by cultivating tomato with double stems, total fruit biomass per plant was significantly improved by ca. 13 %. Within these plants, ca. 100 % more biomass was partitioned into fruits of the primary stem than the secondary stem. Since leaf biomass and area did not vary significantly between individual stems, there was indication that secondary stems improved availability of assimilates which promoted biomass partitioning into fruits on primary stems. Besides marginally decreasing greenhouse air temperature through greater transpiration, high plant and stem density maximize assimilation and are, therefore, one measure to improve tomato fruit biomass under hot tropical conditions. The generally low amount of fruit biomass was also due to lack of pollination and, therefore, development of parthenocarpic fruits under high temperatures particularly during night. A practice to improve the latter includes application of growth regulators to improve enlargement of parthenocarpic fruits.
24126492|The adaptation to site pedological and geological conditions belongs to the most important requirements that concern grapevine rootstocks. The tolerance to the lime-induced chlorosis represents a very important property of rootstock plants. This paper presents the evaluation of tolerance of 20 new rootstock hybrids and 4 rootstock varieties to this type of chlorosis. The evaluation was performed within the framework of a pot experiment in 2007. In hybrids and rootstock varieties the following parameters were studied: length of annual shoots, chlorophyll content index (CCI) and leaf chlorosis score. The evaluated rootstock hybrids were combinations of North American Vitis spp. (V. berlandieri, V. riparia, V. rupestris, and V. cinerea) and the East Asian species Vitis amurensis. A very high and/or high tolerance to lime-induced chlorosis was demonstrated in hybrids 16-1-6; 17-1-6; 17-1-9; 17-2-10; 17-3-6; 17-6-2; 17-8-2; 9-20-1 and 17-12-1. Groups D and F, the most tolerant hybrids originated from combinations with V. berlandieri, V. riparia and V. cinerea. The evaluation demonstrated that, as compared with varieties originating from the crossing V. berlandieri x V. riparia, the rootstocks originating from crossings with V. cinerea were less tolerant. Hybrids originating from V. rupestris showed also only a medium tolerance to lime. From the methodological viewpoint of the evaluation of chlorosis tolerance the correlation existing between the chlorophyll content in leaves and the chlorosis evaluation performed on the base of leaf chlorosis score" is very important (r = -0.84). This means that chlorophyll content index (CCI) and leaf chlorosis score can be used when evaluating the tolerance of rootstocks to chlorosis.
24127049|The characteristics of peat can be explained by its degree of decomposition (H), dry bulk density (DBD), air (AV) and water (WV) volumes, total pore space (PS), ash and organic carbon contents, C/N ratio, elemental as well as the botanical composition. This study includes results of 20 horticultural peats obtained from different areas of Estonia, Finland, Germany, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania and Sweden. The tested peats had a decomposition degree of H3 to H7 and Sphagnum (peat moss) was identified as the major peat forming plant genus (3590 %) followed by Carex (550 %) and mixture of Eriophorum and woody plant remains (520 %). The mean DBD and PS varied widely from 40 to 141 g L-1 and 87.4 to 96.6 % v/v, respectively. Although the tested peats had substantial amounts of WV (43.3 to 82.1 % v/v), their mean water buffering capacities were low (<8 % of WV) to suggest that these peats cannot deliver enough water to the cultivated plant once the easily available water (water held between -1 and -5 kPa; 17.2 to 42.3 % v/v) is gone. Mineral contents (NH4-N, NO3-N, P, Mg, K, Ca, Mn and Fe) in most peats were considerably low but the computed resource availability indices (C/N, C/P, N/P and N/K) were quite high. The variability of nearly 30 parameters, describing the properties of peat, was examined using a Principal Component Analysis and factors relevant to the first two principal components are discussed in details.
24126490|Tomato (Solanum lycopersicum L.) landraces contain much more genetic diversity, compared to the modern hybrid cultivars grown today. Landraces also frequently have distinctive organoleptic values and can serve as value-added products for farmers and as important genetic resources for breeders. However, a large amount of heterogeneity in a landrace will probably make it unattractive to the growers who are interested in cultivating it. Efficient utilization of landrace populations requires their proper characterization and evaluation. In the present study, a two-year experiment was conducted to study heterogeneity within and among 14 Greek tomato landrace populations for various horticultural traits in a low-input environment. The results indicated that significant heterogeneity occurred within and among the tomato landrace populations for the morphological (fruit length, fruit width, core size, locule number, fruit length x fruit width and fruit width/fruit length) and yield (flower number per truss, fruit number per truss, and fruit yield of the first three trusses) characters evaluated; whereas, the F1 hybrid 'Clodin' provided the most consistent results from plant to plant. Although the heterogeneity of horticultural traits detected within the tomato landraces reduces the likelihood of grower acceptance, those that provided the highest yields ('GR05/01', 'GR14/99', 'GR25/99', 'GR60/99', and 'GR193/99') may provide new opportunities for vegetable growers who want to broaden their markets, due to the increased popularity of heirlooms and landraces in certain markets.
24126189|A simple and reliable method for the identification of residues of sulfonylurea herbicides in rotational farming systems has been developed using metsulfuron-methyl as a test substance. Metsulfuron-methyl such as other sulfonylurea herbicides impairs the synthesis of branched-chain amino acids and, in consequence, protein synthesis. Thus, nitrogen consumption is reduced, leading to an accumulation of amino acids and a reduction of nitrogen uptake. The biological-chemical test system is based on the determination of aspartic acid, asparagine, glutamine, and NH4+ by ion chromatography and is suitable for monitoring changes of nitrogen metabolism in soybean seedlings. Of the measured free amino acids, glutamine and aspartic acid represent key substances that reflect changes in nitrogen uptake, assimilation, transport, and storage. Their concentrations increased due to metsulfuron-methyl 215 times in roots, stems, and leaves. The asparagine content is a measure of the nitrogen status of soybean. However, the sensitivity of asparagine content to metsulfuron-methyl depended on the nutritious status of the plant. In case the asparagine level was already high, the herbicide did not induce a significant increase in asparagine. The NH4+ concentration may also add valuable information in case NH4+ is present in the root medium. With respect to the test system, the lower stem section of soybean seedlings represents the optimal plant section for free amino acid analyses, because samples can reproducibly be taken, the concentration of the cell sap is, compared to roots, less influenced by the water status, and this section is, compared to leaves, rather sensitive to sulfonylurea herbicides in the root medium. A reduction of leaf transpiration rate is a further effect of metsulfuron-methyl, so that its measurement may represent a valuable additional parameter to the described biological-chemical test system. Eine einfache und verlssliche Methode fr die Rckstandsanalyse von Sulfonylurea-Herbiziden im Fruchtfolgeanbau wurde entwickelt und am Beispiel von Metsulfuron-methyl getestet. Metsulfuron-methyl beeintrchtigt wie andere Sulfonylurea-Herbizide die Synthese von verzweigten Aminosuren und, als Konsequenz, die Proteinsynthese. In Folge dessen wird der Stickstoffverbrauch reduziert, was zu einer Akkumulation von Aminosuren und zu einer Reduktion der Stickstoffaufnahme fhrt. Das biologisch-chemische Testsystem basiert auf der Bestimmung von Asparginsure, Asparagin, Glutamin und NH4+ mittels Ionenchromatographie und ermglicht, Vernderungen im Stickstoffmetabolismus von Soja zu erfassen. Von den gemessenen freien Aminosuren stellen Glutamin und Asparaginsure Schlsselsubstanzen dar, die Vernderungen in der Aufnahme, der Assimilation, dem Transport und der Speicherung von Stickstoff anzeigen. Ihre Konzentrationen in Wurzeln, Stngeln und Blttern steigen durch Metsulfuron-methyl um das 215-fache an. Der Asparagingehalt ist ein Ma fr den Stickstoffstatus von Soja. Die Empfindlichkeit der Asparaginkonzentration gegenber Metsulfuron-methyl hngt jedoch vom Ernhrungszustand der Pflanze ab. Im Falle eines schon erhhten Asparaginniveaus verursachte das Herbizid keine signifikante Steigerung des Asparagingehaltes. Die NH4+-Konzentration kann ebenfalls wertvolle Hinweise geben, wenn NH4+ im Wurzelraum vorhanden ist. Im Bezug auf das Testsystem stellt der untere Stngelbereich von Soja das optimale Pflanzenteil fr die Analyse von freien Aminosuren dar, weil Proben reproduzierbar gezogen werden knnen, die Konzentration des Zellsaftes im Vergleich zur Wurzel in einem geringeren Ma durch den Wasserstatus beeinflusst wird, und weil der untere Stngelbereich im Vergleich zu Blttern sehr empfindlich auf Sulfonylurea-Herbizide im Wurzelraum reagiert. Eine Abnahme der Blatttranspirationsrate ist ein weiterer Effekt von Metsulfuron-methyl, so dass deren Messung einen wertvollen zustzlichen Parameter fr das beschriebene biologisch-chemische Testsystem darstellt.
24126268|Seed quality of winter squash (Cucurbita maxima L.) seeds was studied during storage in the fruit up to 150 days after harvest of the fruit. Seeds were extracted from the fruits 12, 35, 63, 92, 150 days after harvest in 1999, and 30, 60, 90, 120, 150 days after harvest in 2000. Total seed germination following drying changed between 87 and 97 % in 1999, between 98 and 100 % in 2000. However, normal germination percentages and seed vigour assessed by cold test, accelerated ageing and emergence tests gradually increased until 60 days but significantly declined subsequently. Thus, maximum seed quality was obtained from seeds of 60 days in winter squash after harvest. Gegenstand der Untersuchungen ist die Qualitt von Krbissaatgut (Cucurbita maxima L), das bis zu 150 Tage nach der Ernte in den Frchten belassen wurde. 1999 wurden die Samen 12, 35, 63, 92 und 150 und im Jahr 2000 30, 60, 90, 120 und 150 Tage nach dem Fruchterntetermin entnommen. Die Keimrate im Anschluss an eine Trocknung der Samen betrug 1999 zwischen 87 und 97 % und 2000 zwischen 98 und 100 %. Die Rate normal gekeimter Smlinge und die Keimenergie, die nach einer Kltebehandlung ermittelt wurden, stiegen bis 60 Tage nach der Fruchternte an und fielen im weiteren Verlauf deutlich ab. Die beste Saatgutqualitt wurde deshalb 60 Tage nach Ernte der Krbisse erzielt.
24126678|Maize transposable elements, Activator (Ac) and Dissociation (Ds) have been transformed into several heterologous plant species and they have been successfully used to tag and clone genes in Arabidopsis, flax, petunia, tobacco, and tomato. To investigate the possibility of transposon tagging for subsequent cloning of carrot genes, carrot calli were transformed with a modified maize transposable element Activator-transposase (Ac-TPase) and Ds using an Agrobacterium-mediated transformation method. Ds excision was observed in the tissue culture-regenerated plants carrying both Ac-TPase and Ds. Analysis of Ds footprints in six plants demonstrated the occurrence of small deletions at the donor site. Reinsertion of Ds into new chromosomal sites was detected in the transgenic plants analysed and the analysis of sequences flanking Ds at the insertion sites using TAIL-PCR demonstrated that 37.5 % of Ds insertions were into gene regions in the carrot genome. Although previous studies suggested that the autonomous Ac element may not be a suitable transposon for insertional mutagenesis in carrot, our results deduced that the Ac/Ds based two-element transposon tagging system can be another tool to mutagenise the carrot genome for the purpose of cloning carrot genes.
24127091|Different levels of soil water capacity (SWC 30-50-70 %) resulted in significant changes in physiological parameters of Ocimum basilicum L. 'Genovese' in a pot experiment. Compared to the control plants (water supply to 70 % SWC) the driest condition (30 % SWC) caused a decrease of the relative water content (RWC) in the plants by 20 %. Additionally, their water potential was reduced to 45 % of the control plants. The same treatment increased the concentration of malondialdehyde (MDA) indicating the level of oxidative stress, by 52 % compared to the leaves of the control plants. However, under a moderate water deficit (50 % SWC), the plants exhibited a less severe decrease in RWC and water potential, as well as less oxidative stress. Although the reduction of the SWC to 50 % did not significantly affect the dry shoot mass, a more severe water stress (30 % SWC) reduced it by 34 %, compared to the control plants. The essential oil concentration per plant dry mass showed only a slight increase in consequence of drought stress (significant at 90 % confidence level). The essential oil production calculated to a single individual is determined basically by the changes in the biomass, thus, the lowest results were found in the driest soil. Water supply modified the quantitative composition of the o: the proportion of linalool decreased from 59.68 to 44.39 %. The samples of the stressed plants contained some minor components, (-myrcene, 2-octanone) not present in the control samples.
24126228|Variability in kiwifruit income generation was studied per individual vine within an orchard block of 'Hayward' kiwifruit over three consecutive growing seasons (2003-2005). The objective of this study was to assess the applicability of Lorenz curves and Gini coefficients (G) to characterise the magnitude of the between-vine variation in income, and determine whether spatial variability of vine income in a small orchard block (0.17 ha) was stable over time and whether site-specific management could be applied to the orchard area. Lorenz curves illustrated that vine income in the 2003 season was skewed towards lower incomes with 50 % of the orchard area's income coming from 35 % of the vines when frost differentially affected vines, a result reflected in the high G of 0.208. In subsequent seasons vine income was more homogeneous, indicated by lower G values (0.067 and 0.068). Income was highest in homogeneous vine populations. A strong spatial pattern to between-vine income variation was identified in season 2003; in the subsequent seasons of 2004 and 2005 vine income was increasingly randomly distributed within the test site. We conclude that there was little stability in the spatial structure of between-vine variation in income. Within the orchard area, vine populations were identified that consistently generated higher or lower incomes across seasons. However, the lack of aggregation and the low temporal stability of these vine populations made the adoption of zonal management strategies unfeasible for this site, and has implications about the practicality of zonal management in larger kiwifruit production blocks.
24126915|Turf managers and home lawn owners are often discouraged from using warm-season turf species in the transitional zones of Europe because they undergo dormancy during winter and lose colour up to five months. These issues may be addressed by mixing cool-season species together with warm-season turfgrasses. However, there is a lack of information on performances and dynamics of species succession in such turf grass mixtures. Therefore, a two-year study was carried out at Padova University (Northeastern Italy) to test the effects of overseeding red fescue in bermudagrass and zoysiagrass cultivars on turf quality and species succession in the mixtures. In September 2011, red fescue 'Corail' (FRR) was overseeded at a 50 g m-2 rate on mature turfgrass plots of eight Cynodon dactylon (CD) cultivars and Zoysia japonica 'Companion' (ZJ). Monostands of CD 'Princess-77' and FRR were established for comparison purposes. Turf quality was estimated visually every other week and the frequencies of species in the mixtures were determined every month using a point-intercept method, by recording species in 10-cm segments of four lines of 1 m each. With the exception of summer, CD 'Princess-77' monostand had the lowest visual turf quality in comparison to all the mixtures tested. Significant differences were also observed among mixtures, with zoysiagrass-red fescue polystand showing the most important decline in turf quality from one year to the next. The two best performing mixtures (CD 'Contessa' + FRR and CD Yukon' + FRR) were characterized by high frequency of CD (i.e., average  82 %) and intermediate frequency of FRR (i.e., average = 8288 %). The results of this study suggest that the choice of species and cultivar plays a key role for establishing functional mixtures of warm-season grasses with red fescue in a transitional zone environment.
24126883|High light intensities and high temperatures occurring during the development of grape berries are known to have persistent effects on their growth and ripening processes and also induce sunburn and, therefore, reduce berry quality. Vitis vinifera cv. 'Semillon' grapevines were grown in controlled environments, exposed at three stages of berry development to short-term temperature and light treatments and, at the time of harvest, assessed for impacts on berry ripening and susceptibility to sunburn. Despite treatments being imposed during development, there were highly significant interactions between temperature and light intensity and the growth stage on berry size and sugar content when measured at harvest. Berries treated to the conditions at the early stage of development (pea size) were largely unaffected and there was no carryover at harvest. By contrast, when treated at the mid (veraison) and late stages, the treatment effects were very persistent especially the highest temperature and light intensity, which caused continued marked reductions in berry size and sugar content compared to when the treatments were applied. Although rates of ripening for berries treated early in development in all conditions actually increased at harvest whereas mostly the ripening rates declined for those berries treated at 30 and 38 C and at the mid and late stages. There were similar interactive effects of temperature and light intensity on the susceptibility of the berries to sunburn, with nearly 100 % of berries affected when exposed to the highest temperature and the highest light intensity of 660 mol m-2 s-1. Again, stage of development had a marked influence with no sunburn occurring with vines treated early and most susceptible when treated late in development. These results suggest growers need to protect bunches in the late stages of development from exposure to high light intensities by maintaining an adequate canopy cover over bunches, especially when temperatures approach heat conditions.
24126423|Biotechnology may represent alternative ways to genetic improvement of sweet cherry exploiting somaclonal variation and genetic transformation. In this paper a method to induce efficient shoot regeneration from somatic expiants of 'Burlat C1' is reported: 52.0 % caulogenesis was obtained from basal callus formed after culturing shoot apical portions in the dark. Considering the significant onset of adventitious shoots showing variegated leaves their in vitro performances have been evaluated as compared to green (normal) shoots. The influence of cefotaxime, cefotaxime plus vancomycin and timentin was assessed both for decontamination and regeneration efficiency prior transforming morphogenic masses with A. tumefaciens (C58C1 pDN3514), carrying the rolABC genes from A. rhizogenes, p35GUS-intron visible marker and nptII antibiotic resistance gene. GUS test indicated the presence of transient expression in shoot primordia nevertheless it was not possible to recover transgenic shoots probably due to the formation of chimeric meristems.
24126325|Jojoba (Simmondsia chinensis L.) explants were cultured in vitro under four levels of sodium chloride salinity (0, 0.33, 0.66 and 0.99% w/v) during the proliferation stage. Explant growth was seriously affected by salinity treatments. The mean shoot number and the total mean shoot length per explant were significantly reduced under high salt concentration. Fresh and dry weight of explant were increased till the medium level of salinity and decreased at the high one. Proline and phenolic compound contents of explants were determined in relation to salinity treatments. At the high salt level, proline content was increased while the total phenol and o-diphenol content was higher in explants deriving from control treatment. Ferulic acid and 4-coumaric acid contents decreased at the high salt levels. There were no significant differences between treatments, during most of the time at the proliferation stage, concerning vanillic acid and protocatechuic acid content. Jojoba- (Simmondsia chinensis L.) Explantate wurden whrend der in vitro Proliferationsphase bei vier verschiedenen Natriumchlorid-Konzentrationen (0, 0.33, 0.66 and 0.99% w/v) kultiviert. Das Explantatwachstum wurde durch den Salzgehalt deutlich beeinflut. Die durchschnittliche Sprosszahl und die durchschnittliche Sprossgesamtlnge pro Explantat war bei dem hohen Salzgehalt statistisch nachweisbar reduziert. Das Frisch- und Trockengewicht der Explante nahm mit steigendem Salzgehalt bis zur mittleren Stufe zu und mit weiterer Zunahme (hoher Salzgehalt) wieder ab. Auch der Gehalt an Prolin und phenolischen Verbindungen in den Explanten war durch den Salzgehalt bestimmt. Beim hohen Salzgehalt war der Prolingehalt erhht, whrend der Gesamtphenol- und der o-Diphenol-Gehalt in der Kontrollbehandlung am hchsten war. Der Gehalt an Ferula- und 4-Cumarsure nahm bei der hohen Salzkonzentration ab. Hinsichtlich Vanillin- und Protokatechinsure war whrend der Proliferationsphase zumeist kein signifikanter Unterschied zwischen den Behandlungen nachweisbar.
24126190|In this research, a model for predicting the leaf area was developed for peach by using 'Earlyred', 'Dixired', 'Cardinal', 'Redhaven', 'Glohaven' and 'Cresthaven' cvs. by measuring lamina width, length and leaf area without destroying in 2002. Multiple regression analysis for the cultivars was separately performed. The proposed leaf area (LA) prediction model is: LA=0.5+0.23*L/W+0.67*L*W, R2=0.9975, LA is leaf area, W is leaf width, L is leaf length. The model was validated by measuring leaf samples of different peach trees of the six cultivars in 2003. In dieser Untersuchung wurde ein Modell zur Voraussage der Blattflche von Pfirsich entwickelt, in dem im Jahre 2002 bei den Sorten 'Earlyred', 'Dixired', 'Cardinal', 'Redhaven', 'Glohaven' und 'Cresthaven' die Breite, Lnge und Flche von Blttern gemessen wurde, ohne diese zu zerstren. Die mehrfaktorielle Regressionsanalyse wurde fr jede Sorte separat durchgefhrt. Das Modell fr die Voraussage der Blattflche lautet: LA=0.5+0.23*L/W+0.67*L*W, R2=0.9975, wobei LA fr die Blattflche, W fr die Breite und L fr die Lnge des Blattes steht. Die Gltigkeit des Modells wurde 2003 durch Messen von Blattproben unterschiedlicher Pfirsichbume der selben sechs Sorten berprft.
24126866|The effect of berry shrivel, a physiological disorder in grapevine, on the concentration of phenolic compounds in the cultivais 'Zweigelt', 'Pinot Gris' and 'Pinot Blanc' berries was studied. Specific phenolic compounds were analysed by HPLC and compared to concentrations in healthy berries of the same varieties and between the varieties. As resveratrol is often used as a marker for infection or stress induced defence mechanisms in grapevine, it was postulated that resveratrol concentration in the grape berries is positively correlated with berry shrivel. Other phenolic substances such as catechin, epicatecin and viniferin were also analysed to evaluate their potential effect on berry shrivel. Healthy berries from the variety 'Zweigelt' contained significantly more trans-resveratrol, trans-resveratrol-glucoside and -viniferin, whereas shriveled berries contained significantly higher concentrations of catechin and epicatechin. The phenolic concentrations were not significantly different between healthy and affected 'Pinot Gris' and 'Pinot Blanc' grape berries, respectively, except for 'Pinot Gris' with significantly higher catechin concentrations in healthy berries compared to shriveled berries. Cis-resveratrol could not be detected in any of the samples and cis-resveratrol-glucoside could not be definitely identified.
24126730|A sample of about 169 tomato landraces of varying fruit type and of diverse provenance was tested for reaction to infection with Verticillium dahliae, the causative pathogen of Verticillium wilt. Some individuals of the 'Sorrentino' landrace were as resistant as 'Florida Ve', whereas certain populations of the 'Ligure', rather known as 'Cuor di bue di Albenga', type included the extremes of susceptibility and resistance. Resistant selections from each landrace were allowed to self fertilize to generate breeding lines. A PCR analysis, based on a CAPS marker targeted to the Ve2 allele, was conducted on 'Sorrentino', 'Locale di Albenga 2', 'Locale di Albenga 3', 'Locale di Carmagnola', 'Locale di Cuneo', and 'Eraldo4', and the resulting genotype was fully consistent with reaction to infection with V. dahliae strain V7. Variation in the level of resistance among Ve2 carriers suggested that other genes are also involved in modulating the response to infection. Markers for resistant alleles at Ve should prove useful in marker assisted breeding for wilt resistance in tomato. Homozygous resistant selections were made from landrace materials, which retained the landrace fruit type.
24126181|The effect of 0.0 (control), 0.1, 0.2, 0.4, and 0.6 % of the hydrophilic polymer 'Stockosorb K-400 (TM)' hydrogel on survival and growth of buttonwood (Conocarpus erectus L.) seedlings grown in sandy soil under drought stress was investigated. Soil water retention increased with increasing hydrogel concentrations. The highest concentration of the polymer prolonged the time of water loss from the soil by about 66 % more than the control soil. During drought stress, the seedlings grown in soil with 0.6 % hydrogel survived for longer time than those grown in the control soil. Hydrogel-amended soil increased significantly the growth of shoots and roots as compared with untreated soil. Plant water potential increased significantly with hydrogel application, thus it may aid in the establishment and growth of Conocarpus seedlings under water stress conditions. Effects of 0.4 and 0.6 % of hydrogel on the measured parameters were nearly similar. The study indicates that an amendment of soil with 0.4 to 0.6 % of the hydrophilic polymer 'Stockosorb K-400' can be used in arid and semi-arid areas to provide a better enviroment for Conocarpus erectus seedlings to grow. Es wurde die Wirkung von 0.0 (Kontrolle), 0.1, 0.2, 0.4 und 0.6 % des hydrophilen Polymers 'Stockosorb K-400 (TM)'-Hydrogel auf das berleben und das Wachstum von Conocarpus erectus L.-Smlingen, die auf sandigem Boden unter Trockenstress kultiviert wurden, untersucht. Die Speicherung von Bodenwasser steigerte sich mit steigender Hydrogel-Konzentration. Die hchste Konzentration des Polymers verlngerte die Dauer bis zum Wasserverlustes im Vergleich zur Kontrolle um ber 66 %. Unter Trockenstress-Bedingungen berlebten die Smlinge mit 0.6 % Hydrogel im Substrat deutlich lnger als die Kontrollpflanzen. Substrat mit Hydrogel-Zusatz verbesserte das Wachstum von Trieben und Wurzeln im Vergleich zu Substrat ohne Zusatz significant. Das Pflanzenwasserpotenzial erhhte sich bei Hydrogel-Zugabe signifikant, so dass es bei der Etablierung und der Kultur von Conocarpus-Smlingen unter Trockenstress-Bedingungen hilfreich sein kann. Die Wirkung von 0.4 und 0.6 % Hydrogel auf die untersuchten Parameter war fast identisch. Die Untersuchung zeigt, dass die Zugabe von 0.4 bis 0.6 % des hydrophilen Polymers 'Stockosorb K-400' genutzt werden kann, um in ariden und semi-ariden Gebieten fr Conocarpus erectus-Smlinge bessere Wachstumsbedingungen zu schaffen.
24127678|The effect of three ground covers [alfafa (Medicago sativa), Dutch white clover (Trifolium repens) and perennial rye (Lolium perenne) on soil fertility, tree morphology, and tree nutrient status in a Fraser fir-cover crop intercropping system was investigated to assess the impacts of cover crop species and management practice on the sustainability of the cropping system. Ground cover were mowed every 21 days and returned to the ground as green mulch. Parameters monitored included soil moisture, soil organic carbon and nitrogen, soil mineral nitrogen, cover crop biomass and nutrient content, and tree morphological and nutrient characteristics. Results obtained indicated that the species selection affected the amount of green manure produced and its total nitrogen and phosphorus content. Soil organic carbon and nitrogen were stable in the upper soil profile due to the relatively small quantity added with the cropping system compared to the total stock of soil C and N. Mineral nitrogen decreased over the season due to the synchrony of cover crop decomposition, mineralization and nutrient uptake by trees in the upper profile. Species selection and management practices did not affect tree relative height growth and 100-needles weight, but management practices affected relative diameter growth, indicating competition for soil moisture. Tree foliar nutrient concentrations were not significantly affected by cover species, but were much lower in some of the management practices, suggesting competition for nutrients. We conclude that careful management should be used to capitalize on cover crop benefits and avoid competition for soil nutrients and moisture.
24126235|Vermicompost is a suitable alternative for peat and other organic substrates as potting media. To examine the quality of this material with respect to plant growth requirements, vermicomposts were produced from different organic wastes including yard leaf (YL), sewage sludge + woodchips (SW), municipal wastes (MW), saw dust (SD), wheat straw + urea (SU), sugar cane filter cake (FC) and dairy cattle manure (CM). The chemical characteristics of the vermicomposts and the organic wastes were determined. The carbon to nitrogen ratio (C:N) and the electrical conductivity of wastes decreased during vermicomposting. For the materials with initial low C:N ratio (SW and MW), the N content decreased. Total concentrations of other nutrients in the vermicomposts were much higher than that of the original solid wastes. Some physical characteristics of potting mixes produced from mixing of 0,15, 30, and 45 % (w/w) of the vermicomposts, soil, and sand were determined. Mixing of vermicomposts to potting media decreased the bulk density and particle density but increased the water holding capacity. In a greenhouse trial, the growth of tomato seedlings on the potting mixes was investigated by determination of the shoot dry matter yield, the nutrient uptake, and nutrient content of leaves at flowering stage. Tomato growth in pots containing SW, MW, and SU was higher than for other mixtures. Except N, the nutrient concentrations of the leaf samples were in the sufficiency range. Gegenber Torf und anderen organischen Substraten stellt Wurmkompost sicherlich eine geeignete Alternative als Pflanzerde dar. Um die Qualitt dieses Materials hinsichtlich der Erfordernisse fr das Pflanzenwachstum zu untersuchen, wurden Wurmkomposte aus verschiedenen organischen Abfllen wie Blattstreu (YL), Klrschlamm + Holzschnipsel (SW), Hausmll (MW), Sgemehl (SD), Weizenstroh + Harnstoff (SU), Zuckerrohrfilterkuchen (FC) und Kuhmist (CM) hergestellt. Es wurden die chemischen Eigenschaften dieser Wurmkomposte und der organischen Abflle bestimmt. Das Kohlenstoff-Stickstoffverhltnis (C:N) und die elektrische Leitfhigkeit des organischen Abfalls verringerte sich whrend der Wurmkompostierung. Fr die Materialen mit anfnglich niedrigem C:N (SW und MW) nahm der N-Gehalt ab. Die Gesamtkonzentrationen der anderen Nhrstoffe in den Wurmkomposten waren viel hher als in den ursprnglichen organischen Abfllen. Von Pflanzerdemischungen aus Sand mit 0,15, 30 und 45 % (w/w) Wurmkompostanteil wurden einige physikalische Parameter bestimmt. Die Zugabe des Wurmkompostes zur Pflanzerde verringerte die Lagerungsdichte und die Partikeldichte, erhhte jedoch die Wasserhaltekapazitt. In einem Gewchshausversuch wurde das Wachstum von Tomatensamen in den verschiedenen Pflanzerdenmischungen untersucht, indem man das Trockengewicht der Schsslinge bestimmte. Des Weiteren wurden die Nhrstoffaufnahme, und der Nhrstoffgehalt in den Blttern whrend der Bltezeit erfasst. Das Wachstum der Tomatenpflanzen in Tpfen mit SW, MU und SU war strker als fr die anderen Mischungen. Mit Ausnahme des Stickstoffs lagen die Nhrstoffkonzentrationen in den Blattproben in einem Bereich der fr die optimale Versorgung ausreicht.
24126667|The physiological mechanisms controlling the induction of lateral branching, which is part of the expression of growth vigour, were investigated in two hybrid rootstocks (GF 677 and Mr.S. 2/5) widely used in peach [Prunus persica (L.) Batsch] cultivation that were grafted to a nectarine scion (cv. 'Big Top'). As expected, field-grown rootstocks showed different degrees of vigour and also induced distinct patterns of growth on the scion. The higher the rootstock vigour, the greater the number and length of lateral shoots developed by the scion. Hence, the growth vigour affected paradormancy and we hypothesized that auxin, which is known to suppress axillary bud development following bud break when transported basipetally along the shoot, might mediate rootstock-induced branching in the top of the tree. The role of indole-3-acetic acid as a hormonal signal in lateral branching was assessed by analysing its concentration in apical and axillary buds collected from growing shoots, both intact and at different times after apex removal. Shoot pruning was used as a means to force axillary buds to overcome paradormancy, assuming that their responses would reflect their intrinsic capacity of resuming growth. The development of lateral buds of both grafted scions and intact rootstocks was positively correlated with the respective auxin concentration and following shoot apex removal the relationships became stronger. Therefore, auxin may be responsible for mediating the expression of growth vigour. The invigorating effect of a rootstock would then be dependent on its ability of inducing high auxin levels in axillary buds. The hormone would act directly within bud tissues to stimulate their growth following bud break.
24126304|PR 204/84 rootstock (peach x almond) is a promising rootstock for peach trees as an alternative to GF 677. The present study was the first attempt to micropropagate this genotype. Two experiments were conducted. In the first experiment, two benzylaminopurine (BAP) concentrations (0.08, 0.28 M) were employed in combination with four gibberellic acid (GA3) concentrations (0, 0.028, 0.28, 2.8 M). It was observed, that although there is not a clear statistical difference between 0.08 M BAP plus 0.028 M GA3 and 0.28 M BAP plus 0 M GA3 in terms of shoot length, the first treatment was the most appropriate because the shoots possessed better macroscopic appearance. In the second experiment, two GA3 concentrations (0.028, 0.28 M) were combined with four concentrations of activated charcoal (AC) (0, 4.2, 8.4, 20.8 mM). BAP was fixed at 0.08 M. It was observed that the treatments 0.028 M GA3 plus 20.8 mM AC and 0.28 M GA3 plus 8.4 mM AC in the medium during the elongation stage were not statistically different in terms of shoot length. However, inclusion of AC in the medium resulted in an improved overall macroscopic appearance of leaves and shoots in comparison to 0 mM AC. Die Unterlage PR 204/84 (Pfirsich x Mandel) ist eine vielversprechende Pfirsichunterlage und eine Alternative zu GF 677. Die vorliegende Untersuchung ist der erste Versuch der in vitro-Vermehrung dieses Genotyps. Zwei Experimente wurden durchgefhrt. Im ersten wurden zwei Benzylaminopurin- (BAP-) (0.08, 0.28 M) mit vier Gibberellinsure-(GA3-)Konzentrationen (0, 0.028, 0.28, 2.8 M) kombiniert. Obwohl keine statistischen Unterschiede zwischen den Kombinationen 0.08 M BAP plus 0.028 M GA3 sowie 0.28 M BAP plus 0 M GA3 hinsichtlich Sprosslnge nachweisbar waren, erwies sich die erstgenannte Kombination als geeigneter, da das makroskopische Erscheinungsbild der Sprosse besser war. In einem zweiten Experiment wurden zwei GA3-(0.028, 0.28 M) mit vier Aktivkohle- (AC-)Konzentrationen kombiniert. BAP blieb konstant bei 0.08 M. Dabei zeigte sich, dass die Kombinationen 0.028 M GA3 plus 20.8 mM AC sowie 0.28 M GA3 plus 8.4 mM AC im Medium whrend der Sprossstreckungsphase keinen statistisch nachweisbaren Einfluss hinsichtlich der Sprosslnge hatten. Allerdings verbesserte die Zugabe von Aktivkohle das makroskopische Erscheinungsbild von Blttern uns Sprossen.
24126251|'Amarillo' melon (Cucumis melo var. saccharinus) was freshly-cut into trapezoidal pieces and stored for up to 14 days in air (control) or in controlled atmosphere (CA) of 4 kPa O2 + 15 kPa CO2 (low O2 and high CO2), and 21 kPa O2 + 15 kPa CO2 (high CO2) at 5 C. Both types of CA reduced the respiration rate and C2H4 emission and led to melon pieces of a better sensory quality than control. Fresh-cut melon softened rapidly, a process slowed by low O2 plus high CO2 levels (33 % loss of firmness compared to 41 % in air). That combination reduced the total soluble solids consumption but not that of citric acid. Both CA reduced microbial counts [by 1.8 to 2 log10 cfu g-1 (colony forming units per g of sample)], while the control exceeded the Spanish legal limits of fungal counts. Melon pieces under both CA achieved a shelf life of 14 days although 4 kPa O2 + 15 kPa CO2 was preferable for keeping the firmness.
24126689|Characterization of plant with the use of molecular marker is an ideal approach for conservation of plant genetic resources and improvement. Modern molecular techniques have been developed to meet the demands of the horticulture industry. An overview on the use of molecular markers (RAPD, AP-PCR, DAF, RFLP, AFLP, ISSR, EST, RAMP) in ornamental plants is covered. Population genetics, genetic linkage map and marker assisted selection techniques have significantly simplified the breeding procedures and overcome some of the agronomic, abiotic and biotic problems, which other wise would not be achievable through conventional breeding methods. The development and remarkable achievements with molecular biotechnology in ornamental plants made during the three decades have been reviewed.
24126722|Several orchard management practices and postharvest strategies have been adopted to increase productivity and maintain fruit quality. Growth regulator sprays have been widely used to improve the size of stone fruits. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of sprays of different combinations of prohexadionecalcium (P-Ca) and naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) on 'Castlebrite' apricot trees, particularly on tree yield and maintain fruit quality after a cold storage period. The treatments were: TO = control; T1 = P-Ca spray with 10 cm-long shoots, spray with P-Ca 10 d after, and spray with P-Ca 20 d after; T2 = NAA spray with 10 cm-long shoots, spray with P-Ca and NAA 10 d after; T3 = NAA spray with 10 cm-long shoots; T4 = NAA spray with 10 cm-long shoots, spray with NAA 10 d later. The harvested fruit was stored in cold storage chamber for 0, 20 and 40 d, and then evaluated the quality attributes. Fruit quality was evaluated instrumentally and by sensory analysis conducted by a trained panel and a consumer test. Sprays that combine P-Ca and NAA induced a significant increase in mean fruit mass and yield compared to the control. Negligible differences were observed in the acceptability and sensory quality of the fruit.
24126333|In an experiment with roses grown hydroponically, a low (0.3 mM) and a high (2 mM) level of silicon were combined with a low (0.8 mM) and a high (40 mM) NaCl concentration in the nutrient solution supplied to the crop. The aim of the experiment was to detect possible beneficial effects of silicon on plant growth, yield and flower quality and to test whether the deleterious effects of NaCl-salinity on roses could be mitigated by increasing the Si concentration in the root zone. Silicon was added to the nutrient solution in form of a water-soluble potassium silicate compound. The electrical conductivity (EC) in the nutrient solutions with low and high NaCl concentrations was 1.8 and 6.1 dS m-1, respectively, while the corresponding values in the drainage water, which indicated the salinity status in the root zone, were 2.3 and 8.2 dS m-1, respectively. The increase of the NaCl concentration in the root zone restricted the above-ground vegetative weight of roses, the number of flowers per plant and the mean flower weight and stem length. The increased supply of Si significantly enhanced the vegetative growth of roses at both salinity levels, improved the overall appearance of the plants and resulted in a higher number of marketable flowers per plant at the low salinity level. However, silicon was unable to ameliorate the adverse effects of NaCl-salinity on flower production and quality. The increased Si concentration in the root environment restricted the translocation of Na and Cl to the young leaves of roses. However, net photosynthesis, stomatal conductance and transpiration rate were not affected either by Si or by NaCl-salinity at the concentration levels tested in this study. This finding indicates that the stimulation of the vegetative growth of roses by Si under conditions of high external salinity was not due to mitigation of toxic Na or Si effects on the photosynthetic apparatus.
24126441|Tomato (Lycopersicum esculentum Mill.) plants 'Manit F1' were sprayed with several plant cryoprotection treatments at the phenological stage with plants bearing four true leaves. The active ingredients of the potential cryoprotectors used were: Me2SO, proline, polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP), a preparation of free amino acids plus nitrogen and a preparation of glycerol plus vitamin E. The effectiveness of the cryoprotector was assessed 24 hours after spraying using differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) on leaf tissue and whole plant freezing simulations. The treatment composed of an aqueous solution of 5% glycerin and 0.35% vitamin E was found to be the most effective cryoprotector for reduction of freeze damage on tomato leaf tissue.
24126215|Experiments on the influence of rootstocks and foliar sprays of macro-and microelements on granulation and quality of Valencia sweet orange (Citrus sinensis (L.) Osbeck) fruits were carried out over a three-year-period (19961998) at the Agios Saranda Pomology Research Station. The Pondrus trifoliata rootstock markedly reduced granulation with 31 % compared with 73 % on C. aurantium rootstock. The combined spraying with zinc, + manganese and copper (each 0, 5 %) was the best treatment in reducing granulation and enhancing fruit quality. This combination reduced granulation on both rootstocks to about 1241 % compared to that of control treatment. Zinc or copper separately reduced the incidence of granulation to almost 24 % 28 % compared to the unsprayed control treatment on both rootstocks. Potassium nitrate (1 %), calcium hydroxide (2 %) and boric acid (100 mg 1-1) reduced granulation to a lesser extent. Most of these treatments improved fruit quality and resulted in much more endocarp juice, total soluble solids, and vitamin C content than the control and also markedly reduced peel weight and acidity. The use of specific rootstocks and foliar application of nutrients is a powerful tool in reducing granulation and in improving fruit quality in sweet Valencia orange. Whrend einer dreijhrigen Versuchszeit (19961998) wurde der Einfluss von Unterlagen und Blattspritzungen mit verschiedenen Makro- und Mikronhrstoffen auf die Granulierung und Qualitt von Valencia Apfelsinen (C sinensis (L.) Osbeck ) im Agios Saranda Obstbauforschungsinstitut untersucht. Die Veredelung auf P. trifoliata verminderte die Granulierung der Frchte um 31 %, whrend die Verwendung vom C. aurantium als Unterlage zu einer Verringerung von nur 73 % fhrte. Die kombinierte Spritzung mit 0,5 % Zinksulfat, 0,5 % Mangansulfat und 0,5 % Kupfersulfat bewhrte sich als die beste Behandlung fr die Reduzierung der Fruchtgranulierung und die Verbesserung der Fruchtqualitt. Diese Behandlung verminderte die Fruchtgranulierung auf ca. 2931 % im Vergleich zu der Kontrollvariante. Die Anwendung von nur 0,5 % Zinksulfat oder 0,5 % Kupfersulfat Spritzlsung reduzierte das Auftreten der Fruchtgranulierung um ca. 2428 % in beiden Unterlagen im Vergleich zu der unbehandelten Kontrollvariante. Die Spritzung mit 1 % Kaliumnitrat, 2 % Calciumhydroxid und 100 mg 1-1 Borsure reduzierte ebenfalls das Auftreten von Fruchtgranulierung zu einem geringeren Prozentsatz. Die meisten von diesen Veredelungs- und Blattspritzungsbehandlungen verbesserten die Fruchtqualitat, erhhten die Saftausbeute und die Konzentration an wasserlslicher Trockensubstanz und Vitamin C im Fruchtendocarp im Vergleich zu der Kontrollvariante. Darber hinaus senkten sowohl die Veredlung auf die zwei getesteten Unterlagen als auch die Blattspritzungen deutlich das Schalengewicht der Apfelsinenfrucht. Diese Ergebnisse deuten darauf hin, dass sowohl die Veredlung auf bestimmte Unterlagen als auch die Blattdngung, effektive Manahmen fr die Verminderung der Fruchtgranulierung und die Erhhung der Fruchtqualitt bei Valencia Apfelsinen sind.
24126518|The efficacy of hot-water dipping against apple storage rots caused by Neonectria galligena, Botrytis cinerea and Penicillium expansum was examined. Pure spore suspensions as well as artificially inoculated 'Elstar' apples were incubated for 3 min in a water bath heated to specific temperatures in the range of 32 C to 70 C, followed by incubation at 2 C (fruit) or 20 C (spores). Whereas there were striking interspecific differences in the dipping temperatures survived by spores, storage rots caused by all three species were significantly reduced by dipping temperatures around 50 C. Temperatures above 52 C caused serious heat scald on the fruit surface and gave rise to increasing levels of fruit rot in the case of N. galligena and P. expansum. Very similar temperature-response curves of blue mould development were observed in apples inoculated with P. expansum before or after hot-water dipping, except for the highest temperature tested (70 C). It is concluded that the major effect of hot-water dipping against these fruit rots is mediated by heat-induced acquired resistance of fruit rather than heat-mediated spore mortality. These results suggest possible applications for hot-water dipping of apples at harvest, after short-term cold storage or after the opening of controlled-atmosphere storage rooms in order to improve fruit quality during subsequent storage periods.
24126683|The influence of pedicel dimension on 'Hayward' kiwifruit (Actinidia deliciosa (A. Chev.) C.F. Liang et A.R. Ferguson var. deliciosa) size was studied. Plant growth regulators and defoliations were used to manipulate pedicel weight and length. When lateral pedicels, with fruit removed, were inserted into vials filled with Agromil-Plus (5 l L-1 CPPU (N-(2-chloro-4-pyridy)-N-phenylurea) plus natural bioregulators), the terminal pedicel dimensions were dramatically increased but the fruit size response (122 g) was inferior to that obtained by dipping fruit in CPPU (138 g). GA3 (100 mg L-1) supplied to the pedicel reduced the fruit weight and increased the length of terminal pedicels. ABA (50 mg L-1) did not significantly influence fruit weight or pedicel length. Fruit dipped in CPPU that additionally received a pedicel application of this compound had similar fruit weight (141 g) to that of dipped fruit but significantly greater pedicel weight. Cane defoliation initiated at bud burst produced pedicels of small size on fruit of similar fresh weight to untreated canes. The conclusion was reached that pedicel length and weight are not casually related to fruit size but conditions leading to large fruit may also produce large pedicels.
24127677|In Europe, lettuce (Lactuca sativa L., Asteraceae) is commonly raised in greenhouses and transplanted to the field at the age of two to four weeks in order to prolong the growing season. The sudden exposure to outdoor conditions including altered temperature, radiation levels and rainfall events is extremely stressful for non-acclimated seedlings. Particularly the increase in ultraviolet-B radiation is considered a serious threat. A new approach to pre-acclimate seedlings to ambient ultraviolet-B radiation is the use of ultraviolet-B transparent covering materials. In order to estimate the benefit of UV-B pre-acclimation, lettuce plants were raised in greenhouses covered with three different materials varying in ultraviolet-B transmittance and transplanted to the field at the age of three weeks. U1traviolet-B exposure during the greenhouse period led to a reduction in growth (leaf length, leaf area and leaf number) and an increase in flavonoid content. Transplantation to the field induced a strong enhancement in flavonoid content and a severe growth reduction overriding differences between UV-B treatment groups within a few days. At the time of harvest plant fresh weight was therefore independent from previous u1traviolet-B treatment. Effects of UV-B acclimation on plant performance immediately after transplantation require more detailed examination.
24126249|In this study, the effects of shading treatments at different time periods on yield and growth in the Junebearing strawberry 'Sweet Charlie' were evaluated. The plants were covered with 50 % shading material in a greenhouse during the following periods: 1) greenhouse check (GC), no shade, 2) flower initiation period (FIP1) in Fall 2002, 3) flower initiation period (FIP2) in Fall 2002, 4) the fruiting period (FP) in Spring 2003, 5) constant shading (CS), 6) open field (OF), no shade. Shading during the FP reduced runnering. In general, there was no consistent effect of shading on the crown and leaf number in the experiment. The leaf area of the plants in the CS treatment was generally larger than that in the other treatments in the spring and summer period. Also, the petiole length of the plants in GC and CS was higher than that of the plants in OF in the spring and summer periods. Yield was significantly reduced in the FIP1 and FIP2 treatments. Shading during FP reduced inflorescence number and yield. CS significantly reduced all of the yield parameters. In OF, the number of inflorescences and flowers and the yield per plant was significantly reduced compared to other treatments possibly because of lower temperature preventing flowering or injuring the flowers. The increased fruit weight with CS and OF treatments was the result of reduced inflorescence and flower numbers. Fruit was the smallest in FIP1. The soluble solid content of the fruits in OF was the highest possibly due to the high light intensity while those of the fruits in CS and FP was the lowest. The amount of discarded fruit (deformed, rotten and small fruit) on plants shaded during FP was the highest while the least amount of total discarded fruit was from plants in the open field. In summary, the results of the study suggest that 'Sweet Charlie' responded negatively to shading.
24127048|In this study we investigated the in vitro flowering of Begonia parvula, a highly ornamental wild species from China. Seeds were sown in a hormone-free defined medium (1/4 MS). Eight weeks after culture, seedlings were transferred to 1/2 MS medium. A period of 5.5 months elapsed from the seed state to the stage when male and female flowers were fully open. A comparison was made between both the in vivo and in vitro male and female flowers. We noted that a number of the flowers' reproductive organs in vitro were smaller than in vivo. Flowers from both investigations had identical reproductive organs. Pollen viability was 63 % and 53 % respectively from the in vitro and in vivo male flowers after incubation in a liquid pollen germination medium for 24 h. In vitro fruit ripening was observed and viable seeds were obtained six to seven weeks after manual pollination. The seed size in vitro were 323.40 m long and 205.00 m wide, which was not significantly different statistically from that of the seeds in vivo. Our study showed that the life cycle of B. parvula can be completely controlled in vitro. As a result, we can eliminate the limitation from unsynchronized bloom in the future breeding attempts using B. parvula as a parent.
24126387|Five pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) lines with varying degrees in flesh firmness were used to identify biochemical characteristics related to fruit softening. Firmness of fruit flesh (with epidermis attached) and flesh (without epidermis) was measured at different developmental stages: premature [1520 days post-anthesis (DPA), stage 1], green mature (commercially ripe, 3035 DPA, stage 2), colour turning (fruit becoming 3040 % red, 4050 DPA, stage 3), and red ripe (fruit totally red, 6070 DPA, stage 4). Since firmness with and without the epidermis attached changed similarly in all pepper lines during development, flesh firmness (without the epidermis) was used to represent pepper fruit firmness. Biochemical characteristics measured included insoluble pectin, soluble pectin, and cellulose contents, and the activities of pectin methyl-esterase (PME), polygalacturonase (PG), -galactosidase, and cellulase. In all lines, flesh firmness was highest at stage 3, and then decreased during development. Soluble pectin content also increased in all lines. Cellulose content normally decreased after stage 3, but these changes varied among lines. With ripening PG and PME decreased in the most firm lines, and cellulase and -galactosidase were the key enzymes involved in the less firm lines. These biochemical characters related to fruit firmness and firmness type should provide for breeding for improvements in storage and transportation.
24126293|The primary and secondary metabolites, in addition to the berry grape colouration, of eleven table grape varieties (Vitis vinifera L.) (white 'Aurora', 'Matilde', 'Perlette', 'Regina dei vignetti', and red 'Cardinal', 'Chasselas red', 'Muscat Hamburg', 'Michele Palieri', 'Perlon', 'Ribier' and 'Ribol') from sub-Mediterranean traditional wine production region of Slovenia were screened in the years 2004, 2005 and 2006. Phenols, carbohydrates, and organic acids in grapes were analysed using a high-performance liquid Chromatograph (HPLC), while for the colour analysis, a colorimeter and an O.I.V. descriptor were used. In primary and secondary metabolite content levels, significant differences were observed among varieties. The screened phenol content showed differences, especially in the average (+)-catechin (0.857.3 mg kg-1 FW), (-)-epicatechin (1.13.1 mg kg-1 FW), M-3-G (27170 mg kg-1 FW), trans-resveratrol (0.243.05 mg kg-1 FW) and kaempferol (2.820.2 mg kg-1 FW) contents. In terms of flavan-3-ols, anthocyanins, trans-resveratrol and kaempferol content levels, the most abundant phenol levels were quantified in the red varieties, especially in 'Michele Palieri'. The red varieties, compared to the white varieties had higher and statistically significant average total sugar content (154 g kg-1 FW) and total acid content (6.0 g kg-1 FW). Taking into account all the determined metabolites of grape quality, the 'Perlon' variety differed most, but the grape quality properties of all the screened varieties were satisfactory.
24126378|Maintenance of stomata activity during post-harvest period is one of the key factors keeping water status of cut roses in balance, thereby determining their vase life. In order to study their stomata function and stomata adaptation ability to water stress, transpiration and cavitation rate of cut roses (Rosa hybrida 'Candid Prophyta') were measured simultaneously. Rose stems with an ultrasonic sensor fixed at the peduncle were placed in a gas exchange chamber. Transpiration as well as acoustic emissions were recorded under fluctuating 3 h light-dark rhythm or under continuous light, respectively in dehydration experiments. When starting the experimental procedure roses showed a strong dependence of transpiration rate on light-dark rhythms, indicating a stomata function. The first cavitations appeared after 5 light-dark cycles in this experiment. Parallel to an increase of cavitation rate the transpiration rate declined. Exposure of rose stems to air led first to a short increase of the transpiration rate (Iwanoff effect), which then progressively decreased during the following 3 h dehydration period. With a time lag of a few minutes to the increase of transpiration the cavitation rate increased rapidly as well, and reached its maximum within the following 20 minutes of dehydration. Thereafter the cavitation rate started to decline nearly parallel to the transpiration rate, and stayed on a low level within the rest of the rehydration period. In most cases replacing the roses back into water increased the transpiration rate only partially caused by the long after effect of water stress on stomata function. A strong relationship between cavitation occurrence and transpiration rate was observed also during their following vase life. Furthermore, simultaneous measurements of cavitations and transpiration rate has been shown to be a very helpful aid in studying water stress management of cut roses.
24126870|In this experiment the effects of a moderate nutrient or NaCl salinity on growth, gas exchange and water relations in pepper grown in a substrate soilless closed system were studied. A control (2 dS m-1) and two saline nutrient solutions (4 dS m-1) differing in the salt sources (fertilizers or NaCl) were compared. Total plant dry mass was reduced more by NaCl salinity (-41 %) than nutrient salinity (-17 %) as well as total fruit yield (-48 and -33 %, respectively). In both salinity treatments, the yield decrease was due to a strong reduction in the mean fruit mass (-42 %), whereas NaCl-stressed plants also produced less fruits (-20 %). The results obtained on plant water relations, gas exchange and ion content in different plant organs demonstrated that the negative response of pepper to salt stress depends on both osmotic and ion specific effects. The detrimental effect on pepper response was more evident under NaCl stress. This could be mainly explained by the toxicity of Cl-, although slight nutrient imbalances due to Na+ and Cl- antagonisms were observed.
24126723|Rooting in tree peony (Paeonia suffruticosa Andr.) remains the most difficult challenge in the tissue culture of this woody ornamental plant. In a bid to increase rooting ability of tree peony plants in vitro, several abiotic factors were assessed. Indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) concentration, carbon source, substrate, and light source affected the root induction ability of tree peony cv. 'Wu Long Peng Sheng'. Without IBA, no roots formed. At 4 mg l-1 IBA, all rooting parameters were highest. When plantlets were cultured under light-emitting diodes (LEDs) or cold cathode fluorescent lamps (CCFLs) on rooting medium, rooting percentage on rockwool was higher than on Gellan gum. However, rooting percentage was higher under heat fluorescent lamps than under LEDs or CCFLs, independent of the medium substrate. Sucrose resulted in higher rooting ability than CO2-enrichment under any light source; moreover, CO2-enrichment appeared to have a detrimental effect on rooting percentage. Rooting was better under heterotrophic than under photoautotrophic conditions. Rooting of tree peony was successfully achieved under various conditions, which will gready benefit the micropropagation of this difficult-to-root tree.
24126400|Fruit samples of seven sweet cherry cultivars grouped into three different groups of fruit flesh firmness (soft-fruited: 'Ranna Ljaskovska', 'Vista' and 'Sunburst', medium firm: 'Ulster' and 'Sylvia' and firm cultivars: 'Van' and 'Lapins') were harvested over a three week period with 34 d intervals prior to, during and after normal harvest time in 1997 and 1998 in Ullensvang, western Norway. Fruit firmness was measured at each harvest date along with measurements of soluble solids content (SSC), air temperature, precipitation and estimation of fruit colour. Corresponding samples picked at normal harvest date were stored in normal air atmosphere at temperatures 2 C and 8 C, respectively, and firmness was measured during storage with 35 d intervals. All the tested cultivars reached normal firmness, colour and SSC at harvest both years. Fruit were generally darker in 1998 than in 1997. All cultivars showed a more or less distinct reduction in firmness over the period prior to and slightly after normal harvest. Exceptions were 'Sunburst' in the 1998-season, that increased in firmness after normal harvest date, and the two firmest cultivars that increased in firmness over the ripening period in 1997. Generally, firmness increased during the first part of storage followed by a decrease after 12 weeks, the decrease being usually earlier and more distinct at 8 C than at 2C. 'Van' in 1998 showed no change in firmness development throughout the storage period but a small increase in the last part. 'Lapins' in 1997 had, however, a pronounced drop in firmness in the middle of the storage period followed by an increase. All the tested cultivars were more firm at normal harvest time in 1998 than in 1997, except the two firm-fleshed cultivars 'Van' and 'Lapins'. The warm and sunny 1997-summer produced softer fruits than the cold and rainy 1998-season, except for the firm-fleshed cultivars. It was anticipated that the many contradictory results of sweet cherry fruit firmness reported by other authors may be caused by differences in weather conditions as demonstrated.
24126734|With the rapid intensification of agriculture in Sudan salinity problems are increasingly hampering efforts to meet the food demands of a growing population. To increase income and subsistence needs of farmers and to counteract land degradation increased reliance on salt-tolerant fruit trees are of particular interest for many marginal areas. Given lacking knowledge about tolerance of Grewia tenax (Forssk.) Fiori to NaCl salinity, this study aimed at investigating the tolerance of this species to NaCl stress. Seedlings of G. tenax were exposed to four different levels of NaCl salinity for a period of 7 weeks. Treatments were 0, 20, 40 and 80 mM in the irrigation solution corresponding to an EC of 1.8, 3.8, 5.6 and 8.6 dS m-1 for the first four weeks of the experiment, representing the early seedling stage of G. tenax. In an effort to mimic salt stress under field conditions the subsequent three weeks salt concentrations were doubled reflecting EC values of 1.8, 5.6, 8.6 and 15.2 dS m-1. Plants treated with 40/80 mM and 80/160 mM NaCl dropped 6 and 10 % of their leaves, respectively. Leaf area per plant decreased due to a decreased number of leaves rather than a reduction in area per leaf. The reduction in leaf area was 33, 42 and 54 % at 20/40 mM, 40/80 mM and 80/160 mM NaCl, respectively, whereas the corresponding reduction in total dry matter was 25, 36 and 49 % of the control. Net photosynthesis was reduced by 29 and 42 % at the moderate and high salt levels, respectively. Similarly, stomatal conductance and transpiration decreased with increasing salt level, however, internal CO2 increased. Given the accumulation of Na and Cl in plant tissues, G. tenax classifies as a salt-includer species whereby leaves managed to maintain the level of K constant under high NaCl.
24126417|The influence of flesh firmness on consumer acceptance and its relationship with total soluble solids concentration (TSSC), titratable acidity (TTA) and sensory analysis was studied to understand their interaction in determining acceptance judgments, for different organoleptic typologies of peaches and nectarines. The investigation was carried out during summer 2006 on fruit of 'September Sun' and 'Sweet September' (low acid) peach {Prunus persica (L.) Batsch), and 'Maria Dolce' (low acid) and 'Venus' nectarines {Prunus persica (L.) Batsch, var. nucipersica). Sensory descriptors for peaches and nectarines were Flesh firmness, Sweetness, Sourness, Aroma, and Acceptability. The panel was able to discriminate different fruit ripening stages, in terms of fruit firmness, aroma and sweetness and to relate those parameters to fruit acceptability. 'Maria Dolce', "Venus' and 'September Sun' fruit ranging from 3.2 to 5.3 kg cm-2 of flesh firmness, were accepted by the panel, while acceptability of low-acid fruit of 'Sweet September' was related to their aroma and firmness. Values of flesh firmness higher than 5.5 kg cm-2 always resulted in unacceptable fruit quality.
24126916|Persisting drought conditions and diminishing water resources are common in arid and semi-arid zones; therefore, it is important to find turf species and cultivars that can survive with less water. A field study was conducted in 2009 and 2010 at the University of California, Riverside USA to assess the drought tolerance of 8 tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreb.) cultivars, and 2 populations of Festuca  Lolium hybrids [Festulolium [FL]). Commercial tall fescue cultivars were: 2nd Millennium, Avenger, Bonsai 3000, Fawn, Firenza, Forrest Green, Mason, and Silver Hawk. Festulolium populations were created through wide hybridization of tetraploid perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne L.; Lp) with diploid meadow fescue [Festuca pratensis (Huds.) P. Beauv. (Fp)] backcrossed to Lp. Also evaluated were commercial cool-season blends or mixtures consisting oftall fescue cultivars; a perennial ryegrass, Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis L.), creeping red fescue (Festuca rubra rubra L.), and chewings fescue (Festuca rubra commutata Gaudin) mixture; a tall fescue and annual ryegrass mixture; and a perennial ryegrass and Kentucky bluegrass mixture. Irrigation was suspended during the Stimmer for 21 days and subsequently resumed at 100 % ETo for the following month. No differences were detected after 21 days without water among individual tall fescue cultivars and FL populations. The two FL populations showed the highest quality (6.8) and colour (6.6) before the drought period, but showed the lowest ratings during recovery (3.4). Although no differences were observed 21 days after irrigation was withheld, blends or mixtures containing tall fescue recovered better than perennial ryegrass or Kentucky bluegrass.
24126488|This study investigated the effect of grafting on the vegetative growth and reproductive development of tomato plants under controlled prolonged heat stress conditions. The heat tolerant tomato cultivar (cv.) 'Summerset' and the eggplant cv. 'Black Beauty' were selected as rootstocks and the heat sensitive tomato cv. 'UC 82-B' as scion. Grafted (tomato/tomato (T/T), and tomato/eggplant (T/E)) and non-grafted plants were grown under high (37/27 C day/night) temperature and control (26/20 C) temperature conditions in growth chambers. The experiments were conducted twice with the same conditions. This study indicated that grafted plants developed better under heat stress conditions than the non-grafted ones. T/E plants, for instance, showed significantly higher values of chlorophyll fluorescence at late fruiting stage, greater leaf area, leaf fresh and dry weight, number of pollen grains per flower and lower values of electrolyte leakage than non-grafted 'UC 82-B' at 37/27 C. Also T/T plants had a better vegetative growth than 'UC 82-B'. However, there was no positive effect on reproductive traits including yield due to grafting. Further combinations with good productive scions and heat stress tolerant rootstocks need to be tested.
24126819|Consumers are becoming increasingly demanding with regard to vegetable quality. For slicing cucumbers, appearance and shelf life are often described. However, little is known about taste. The main objective of this paper was to describe physicochemical parameters of slicing cucumbers and their relation to consumer sensory evaluation. Shrink filmed slicing cucumbers (Cucumis sativus L.) from eight different producers, four Norwegian and four Spanish, were obtained through Norwegian wholesalers. The fruits were analysed on arrival and during four weeks of storage at 12 C in darkness. On arrival, significant differences between cucumbers from different producers were found for all measured physicochemical parameters: fruit length, weight, diameter, colour, endocarp diameter, dry matter content, firmness, soluble solid content (SSC), electrical conductivity (EC), total titratable acids (TTA), content of fructose, glucose, sucrose, malic and citric acids. During storage the green colour faded, and there was a reduction in dry matter, firmness and EC, whereas SSC and TTA increased. At harvest fructose, glucose and sucrose were the main sugars with a relative distribution of 48, 35 and 15 % respectively. Malic acid was the main organic acid (64%). During storage citric acid content raised from 211 to 266 mg 100 g-1 fresh weight. Sensory evaluation showed significant differences between cucumbers from different producers. A positive correlation was obtained for consumer preference and SSC, whilst a negative correlation was found towards EC. A strong correlation (r = 0.96) was revealed between consumer preference and the relation SSC2  (TTA  EC)-1. This indicates that consumer preference for cucumbers might be predicted by measurements of SSC, TTA and EC.
24126822|New lighting technologies of interest for the greenhouse horticulture have been introduced in the market during the last couple of years. The LED-technology has attended special interest from researchers and business, with attractive features such as long lifetime, high efficiency and possibilities for tailoring the light spectrum. In this study, common horticultural crops were grown in greenhouse conditions using different LED-light sources as well as HPS-lamps for supplementary lighting. Experiments were conducted both during increasing (spring) and decreasing (fall) natural light conditions. Biometrie as well as photosynthetic evaluation of plant performance was performed. Plant parameters such as internodal length, development of flowers and lateral shoots, biomass accumulation (fresh/dry weight) and developmental time were recorded, in addition to photosynthesis and stomata conductance. Results indicate that biomass production was the highest when HPS-light was used. For photosynthesis and stomata conductance there were no differences with respect to the different treatments. Plant morphology was affected, with a reduction in stem elongation when red/blue or white LEDs were used as light source in ornamental plants grown during autumn period, and development was also delayed when LEDs were applied. However, in experiments performed dining springtime there were no differences in plant morphology related to the different light sources.
24126427|Basic features and special problems of modelling plant/crop development, in this part the impacts of photoperiodism and temperature on reproduction and yielding are reviewed, extended and utilisations in vegetable production are discussed.
24126419|The aim of this work was to determine the long-term response of growth, leaf morphology and gas exchange of three widely grown shrubs to the level of irradiance. To this purpose, one-year-old uniform rooted cuttings of Camellia x williamsii W.W.Sm. 'Debbie', Photinia x fraseri Dress 'Red Robin' and Viburnum tinus L. 'Eve Price' grown in containers were placed for 2 years under different woven polypropylene fabrics that reduced light intensity by 60 % and 30 % and, as a control, plants were also grown in full sun. Plant dry weight, LAI, LAR, NAR, RGR, mean leaf area, number, ultrastructure and gas exchange were measured during the experiment. The species reacted in different ways to shading, indicating a strong genetic influence, even if some parameters as transpiration, leaf thickness, leaf size and stomatal frequency responded similarly to irradiance. Camellia showed a great adaptability to light conditions. Shading photinia greatly reduced root biomass but did not alter leaf gas exchange, thus is not a recommendable practice for this species. Viburnum increased leaves and stems biomass and increased net photosynthesis and water use efficiency under shaded conditions. In conclusion, effects of shading can positively affect plant growth and physiology, but response to shading is species-specific.
24126520|Artichoke is a source of caffeolquinic acids and flavonoids for pharmaceutical industry as their concentrations in the leaves tend to be very high. A three-year field experiment was conducted in Poland to estimate the effects of irrigation and various plantation modalities on the concentrations and productions of these substances. In the experiment four methods of plantation establishment (single-grain direct seeds sowing, seeds sowing with covering with nonwoven polypropylene film, seedlings produced in a plastic tunnel transplantation, seedlings produced in multicell trays in a plastic tunnel transplantation) as well as drip irrigation on the background of unwatered plots were used. Generally, supplemental irrigation was connected with better developed plants, that produced greater number of longer leaves and as a result higher above ground parts weight, whereas dining the second cut (performed in October) significantly higher yields of better quality artichoke leaves were obtained. Both, with and without irrigation, yield was lower in the case of transplantation of seedlings with bare roots and at a less degree in the case of direct sowing without covering. The concentration of CQA and flavonoids were higher without irrigation and much lower in direct sowing than in transplantation. Thus, studies showed that direct sowing (even though with crops covering) resulting in lower yields of worse quality of artichoke raw material. Seedlings produced previously in plastic tunnel transplantation could be indicated as better method of artichoke plantation establishment for pharmaceutical purposes.
24134264|There has been very little literature on the mid season spatial variability of fruit production in horticulture crops published to date. Most of the existing literature refers to data collected post harvest. Crop load data taken prior to hand thinning and prior to harvest were collected in 3 blocks of a commercial apple (Malus domestica Borkh.) orchard in the province of Ferrara, Italy. The purpose of the survey was to characterize the within field variability of crop load, using spatial statistics, and assess the effectiveness of the hand-thinning treatment. Crop load estimations were taken at 156 sites pre and post hand-thinning over a defined distance (0.8 m) and the data used to model a variogram and associated spatial variation. Variation in the spatial distribution of the fruit load prior to the hand-thinning was observed, indicating a possibility to spatially differentially manage the orchard. No spatial variation in fruit number was observed prior to harvest (post-thinning), indicating that thinning had removed the previously observed spatial variation in crop load. Under the current uniform management approach this indicates that thinning has been effectively implemented. However, the spatial variation observed prior to thinning may indicate that a differential crop load management strategy may be optimal for maximizing quality in the orchard.
24126335|An efficient and rapid system was established for direct shoot regeneration from leaf explants of sweet potato [Ipomoea batatas (L.) Lam.]. Adventitious shoots were induced from leaf explants of cvs. 'Tainong (T) 57', 'T 64' and 'T 66' of sweet potato on modified MS medium [MS inorganic salts (Murashige and Skoog 1962), 0.6 mM myo-inositol, 5.0 M thiamine-HCl, 10.0 M nicotinic acid, 5.0 M pyridoxine-HCl (Zheng et al. 1996)] supplemented with benzyladenine (BA), thidiazuron (TDZ), 2-isopentenyladenine (2ip) alone as well as TDZ in combination with indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). Type and concentrations of cytokinins influenced adventitious shoot induction. Among BA, TDZ and 2ip, TDZ was the best for adventitious shoot induction with an optimal concentration of 5.0 M (average of 73.6, 72 and 50.3 shoots were induced from 30 leaf explants of cvs. 'Tainong 66', 'T 64' and 'T 57', respectively). Adventitious shoot induction was not improved with the addition of IAA; however, it promoted elongation of shoots. In vitro grown shoots were rooted on MS medium alone and also on MS supplemented with IBA. The well developed plantlets were successfully acclimatized in growth chamber under controlled environmental condition. Hardened plants were transplanted to pots and maintained in green house. The survival rate of the plantlets was 8695 %. This protocol of direct induction of adventitious shoots could be useful for the genetic transformation of sweet potato.
24126906|Like all modem agriculture sectors, turfgrass production and management is headed towards cost reduction, resource optimization and reduction of the environmental impact. In recent years the development of new technologies has provided new tools for monitoring agricultural crops. In particular, the combined adoption of geographic information systems, global positioning systems, multispectral lenses on board satellites and cartographic techniques allow a large scale management of agricultural resources. This paper reports the results of a trial attempting to evaluate the spectral signatures of several turf grass species\cultivars, for future use in satellite monitoring. This experimental study focused on 20 turfgrass species\cultivars, including perennial ryegrasses, tall fescues, kentucky bluegrasses, bermudagrasses (ecotypes, seeded and vegetatively propagated cultivars) and zoysiagrasses. Various agronomical and biological parameters were studied (quality, colour, dry matter, chlorophyll, carotenoids, nitrogen content) and turfgrass spectral reflectance for all entries was gathered. Results showed that, within the same species, selected vegetation indices are often able to discriminate between different cultivars that have been established and maintained with identical agronomical practices. Evaluation of the spectral reflectance of plants using field spectroradiometry provides the possibility to identify different species\ cultivars, especially through the use of hyperspectral proximity and remote sensing.
24126660|The effect of different Fe sources [FeSO47H2O, (NH4)2[Fe(SO4)2]6H2O, FeEDDHA (ferric ethylenediamine di (o-hydroxyphenylacetic acid)] and concentrations (0.1, 0.2, 0.4 mM Fe) on multiplication and rooting of the pear rootstock OHF 333 in vitro was studied. The length of shoots significantly increased in the presence of 0.2 mM FeSO47H2O in comparison to the rest treatments. However, the number of shoots per expiant and the fresh mass were significantly increased in the presence of 0.4 mM FeEDDHA. FeEDDHA at all concentrations significantly promoted shoot proliferation in comparison to the rest Fe sources. Expiants supplied with 0.1 mM Fe in the form of (NH4)2[Fe(SO4)2]6H2O had higher rooting percentage, as well as greater number of roots per expiant, root length, and fresh and dry mass of cultures compared to the rest Fe sources. The organic form of Fe (FeEDDHA) resulted in low percentage of rooting compared to the other Fe sources. Expiants grown on media without Fe showed low rooting percentage. Calcium, Mg and B concentrations of plants treated with the various Fe forms were not significantly different compared to the control. By increasing Fe concentration of the culture medium from 0.1 to 0.4 mM, Mn and Zn concentrations of cultures declined.
24126422|Several factors affecting in vitro regeneration of the difficult to regenerate apple rootstock M.9 type T337 have been examined by modifying the composition of tissue culture media, namely basal salt mixture as well as cytokinin (TDZ, BAP) and auxin (NAA) concentration and combination. MS medium (with Van der Salm modification) gave consistently better results than DKW medium. Highest regeneration rates (ca. 87 %) were obtained with 0.54 M NAA/0.45 M and 15.0 M TDZ, respectively. However adventitious shoots were hyperhydric irrespective of the TDZ/NAA concentration. Replacing TDZ by 22.0 M BAP resulted in a little lower regeneration rate (68 %) but here only 7 % of the explants were hyperhydric.
24134257|Nodal sections of Quillaja saponaria, 'Quillay', including the proximal part of leaf laminae from 2-year old trees, as well as polynodal sections (34 axillary buds), were cultivated in MS-medium (Murashige and Skoog (1962) in the presence of various cytokinins, especially high levels of benzyladenine (BA) or thidiazuron (TDZ). This initiated profuse branching of the axillary bud and the induction of many new shoots and also callus formation in both explant types. From a single polynodal explant, more than 200 new multiple shoots developed in a period of 3 4 months. Proliferation of new shoots occurred mostly under the preexisting axillary bud(s) of the section and at the proximal end of the petiole with its intact leaf attached. Shoot clusters or isolated shoots elongated in subculture in the presence of MS-medium without growth regulators or formed roots when supplemented with indolebutyric acid (IBA) within a period of 3060 days, leading to plantlets. Root formation occurred in  strength MS-medium with added 1 % sucrose and 0.6, 1.2 and 5.0 mg l-1 IBA, as single hormone. Roots did not form in lower IBA levels (0.1 mg l-1) while the addition of phloroglucinol or thiamine did not enhance rhizogenesis besides the IBA. Despite the strong shoot initiation occurring in both nodal and polynodal explants, morphogenesis was not observed in leaf explant sections, and callus derived from nodal sections, formed green globular structures only without further differentiation. Nodale Segmente einschlielich der proximalen Blattenden von zweijhrigen Quillaja saponaria Pflanzen als auch polynodal-Segmente mit 34 axillren Sprossen wurden in Murashige und Skoog (1962) -Medium (MS) mit einer hohen Konzentration von Benzyladenin (BA) und Thidiazuron (TDZ) kultiviert. Beide Explantate zeigten eine Verzweigung der vorhandenen axillren Sprosse und Bildung von neuen Sprossen sowie Kallus. Aus einem einzigen polynodalen Explantat bildeten sich innerhalb von 34 Monaten mehr als 200 neue Sprosse. Die Bildung von neuen Sprossen zeigte sich unter den axillren Sprossen und am proximalen Ende des Blattstiels. In Subkultur verlngerten sich die neuen Sprosse oder konnten auf MS-Medium (Makroelemente -Konzentration) mit 1 % Saccharose und 0.6, 1.2 oder 5.0 mg l-1 IBA innerhalb von zwei Monaten zur Wurzelbildung induziert werden. Bei niedriger Konzentration von IBA (0.1 mg l-1) oder bei Zugabe von Phloroglucinol oder Thiamin zeigten sich keine frdernden Effekte auf die Wurzelbildung verglichen mit IBA-Behandlungen ohne Addendazugabe. Trotz der intensiven Sprossbildung der nodalen bzw. polynodalen Explantate konnte bei nodalem Kallus sowie bei Blttern keine Morphogenese nachgewiesen werden und die Differenzierung erfolgte nur bis zur Bildung von grnen globulren Strukturen.
24126468|This study focuses on the characterization of the xylem vulnerability of Asparagus officinalis L. to cavitation by calculating the drought-induced loss of hydraulic conductivity (K) per xylem water potential (xyl). This relationship is used to create vulnerability curves (VC) and to derive a drought stress threshold applicable for irrigation purposes. Three shoot treatments for generating VC and for revealing the drought resistance of this species are compared: the "diurnal transpiration treatment", the "soil drying treatment" and the "lab transpiration treatment". The "lab transpiration treatment", using excised, rehydrated and subsequently dehydrated shoots, was selected as the best method to produce VC compared to natural dehydration treatments. Using this method, VC were established for field-grown plants over the season to detect changes in xylem vulnerability with time. The cavitation resistance decreased during the period, when shoots were fully developed but not senescent. Asparagus experienced 50 % loss of K when xyl at predawn reached -0.3 MPa in July and -0.2 MPa in September. This seasonal shift of the critical xyl has to be taken into consideration for plant-based irrigation scheduling using xyl as irrigation signal.
24126192|This study was aimed to select valuable genetic resources of fig in Birecik (Urfa) situated on the Southeast part of Turkey during 1998 and 1999. Populations consisting of native fig genotypes were examined in terms of fruit, leaf and tree characteristics, and 35 genotypes were selected for future breeding efforts. Their leaves and desirable fruit characteristics were determined by comparing with 'Bursa Siyah', which has prime importance among table fig varieties in Turkey for fresh market. Some selections produced larger fruits than 'Bursa Siyah'. All genotypes showed a range of 23 to 84 g in fruit weight, 36 to 56 mm in fruit width, 30 to 56 mm in fruit length and 0.08 to 0.2 mm in peel thickness. While total soluble solid contents ranged from 12 to 21.3 %, titratable acidity changed from 0.1 to 0.4 %. In addition, all types were investigated in terms of fruit shape index, skin colour, internal colour, peel thickness, skin cracks, ribs of peel, ease of peeling, number of leaves per shoot, leaf dimensions, lobes, hairs, venation, presence of teeth, growth habit of tree and seasonal shoot growth. Many genotypes were evaluated as promising for further breeding efforts. Ziel der Untersuchung in den Jahren 1998 und 1999 war, wertvolle Genotypen der Feige in Birecik (Urfa), dem Sdosten der Trkei, zu selektieren. Die Populationen aus einheimischen Feigen-Genotypen wurden hinsichtlich Frucht-, Blatt- und Baumeigenschaften untersucht und daraus resultierend 35 Genotypen fr weitere Zchtungsschritte ausgewhlt. Als Vergleichssorte fr wnschenswerte Blatt- und Fruchtmerkmale wurde 'Bursa Siyah', die wichtigste Tafelfeigensorte auf dem trkischen Frischmarkt herangezogen. Einige Selektionen hatten grere Frchte als 'Bursa Siyah'. Alle Genotypen wiesen beim Fruchtgewicht Werte zwischen 23 und 84 g, in der Fruchtbreite zwischen 36 und 56 mm, in der Fruchtlnge zwischen 30 und 56 mm und in der Schalendicke zwischen 0.08 und 0.2 mm auf. Der Gesamtanteil lslicher Trockensubstanz betrug 1221.3 %, die titrierbare Sure 0.10.4 %. Alle Genotypen wurden hinsichtlich Fruchtformindex, Schalen- und Fruchtfleischfarbe, Schalendicke, -rissen, -rippen, Anzahl der Bltter pro Trieb, Blattgre, -lappung, -behaarung, -nerven, -zahnung, Wuchseigenschaften des Baumes und saisonalem Triebwachstum untersucht. Viele Genotypen wurden als vielversprechend fr weitere Zchtungsarbeit eingestuft.
24126716|Cinnamaldehyde (CA) is a major component of volatile oil extracted from the leaves and bark of Cinnamomum osmophloeum Kaneh. In the present study, effects of CA were investigated on the vase life of cut rose. Our results showed that CA markedly enhanced the vase life of rose by 2.8 more days in comparison to control. This increase in vase life is chiefly governed by CA induced higher activities of antioxidant enzymes POD, SOD and CAT that in turn lowered the levels of MDA. Besides that proline and soluble protein contents were also improved. Therefore, CA could be used in commercial preservatives to improve the longevity of cut rose.
24126166|The relationship between the growth of the shoot and a storage organ was studied in radish (Raphanus sativus L. var. sativus). To quantify the relationship the ratio r of the relative growth rates of the tuber dry mass and the leaf area was used. On the basis of growth data, measured on twenty-four crops in the field and growth chamber, a system analysis was carried out to test whether the determined values of this ratio can be explained as result of an optimal process. The following hypothesis was examined: The adjustment of tuber and leaf growth occurs in such a way, that the harvest stage, defined here by a certain tuber dry mass, is attained in shortest length of time. For theoretically deriving the ratio a simple growth model and optimisation procedures were used. Inputs were the measured values of net assimilation rate and specific leaf mass. In the case of describing the growth with a mean value of ratio r during the growth interval from seedling stage to harvest, the calculated values were in good accordance with the measured. But, if the ratio was allowed to vary over time only the general response could be confirmed by the calculation: at first predominant leaf growth and then transition to predominant tuber growth. In order to achieve a sufficient quantitative accordance additionally several constraints (e.g. a upper limit of the relative growth rate of the tuber) were necessary. Conclusions for further investigations were drawn from the results. Die Beziehung zwischen dem Wachstum von Spross und einem Speicherorgan wurde am Beispiel von Radies (Raphanus sativus L. var. sativus) untersucht. Als quantitative Gre fr die Darstellung der Beziehung wurde der Quotient r aus den relativen Wachstumsraten der Knollentrockenmasse und der Blattflche verwendet. Auf der Grundlage von Wachstumsdaten, gemessen an vierundzwanzig Kulturen im Freiland und in der Klimakammer, wurde eine Systemanalyse durchgefhrt, um zu prfen, ob die ermittelten Werte dieses Quotienten als Ergebnis eines optimalen Prozesses angesehen werden knnen. Geprft wurde die Hypothese: Zwischen Knollen- und Blattwachstum stellt sich eine solche Balance ein, dass das Erntestadium, definiert durch eine bestimmte Knollentrockenmasse, in krzester Zeit erreicht wird. Fr die theoretische Bestimmung des Quotienten wurde ein einfaches Wachstumsmodell zugrunde gelegt, dessen Input die beobachteten Werte der Nettoassimilationsrate und der spezifischen Blattmasse waren. Im Falle, dass das Wachstum im Zeitintervall vom Ende des Keimblattstadiums bis zur Ernte mit einem Mittelwert des Quotienten r beschrieben wird, ergab sich eine gute Ubereinstimmung der berechneten mit den gemessenen Werten. Im Falle zeitabhngiger Werte jedoch konnte lediglich das prinzipielle Verhalten besttigt werden: zu Beginn vorherrschendes Blattwachstum, danach bergang zu berwiegendem Knollenwachstum. Um eine ausreichende quantitative bereinstimmung auch hier zu erzielen, waren zustzlich mehrere Nebenbedingungen (z.B. eine obere Grenze der relativen Wachstumsrate der Knolle) notwendig. Aus den Ergebnissen wurden Vorschlge fr die Weiterfhrung der Arbeiten abgeleitet.
24126250|The purpose of this research project was to determine how mulching, specific harvesting times, and the differing weather conditions of the years involved affected the biochemical content of two Rubus family species: the raspberry (Rubus idaeus L.) 'Tomo' and the blackberry (Rubus fruticosus coll.) 'Agawam'. The appropriate data were recorded in the course of the years 20012004. The 'Tomo' and 'Agawam' fruit weight was not significantly influenced by cultivation technology, but was influenced by harvesting time and the weather conditions of the particular year involved. The fruit dry matter (DM) was directly related to the berries' harvesting time. The soluble solids content (SSC) in the raspberry fruits was 9.913.3 % and 8.916.0 % in the blackberries. The raspberry fruits' SSC was significantly influenced by cultivation technology: the SSC was higher in berries grown without mulch. The ascorbic acid content (AAC) varied over the years, and depended mostly on the particular species. The raspberry fruits' AAC was significantly influenced by cultivation technology: the AAC was higher in berries grown without mulch. The blackberry fruits' AAC was also influenced by the harvesting time, being higher in berries from the last harvesting. The differing yearly wheather conditions had a greater effect on the blackberry fruits' titratable acids (TA) content. The results indicated that fruit weight and biochemical content were primarily influenced by the differing weather conditions of the various years involved. The berries, for instance, contained more DM and soluble solids, and less TA in 2002. Cultivation technology had significant influence only on the raspberry fruits' AAC and SSC. Harvesting time had an impact on both the raspberry and the blackberry fruit weight and DM content, but the fruit SSC, AAC, and TA were affected only in the blackberry.
24126308|To investigate the effect of nitrogen on curd compactness and the onset of cauliflower bolting, (Brassica oleracea var. botrytis) greenhouse trials in nutrient solution were conducted at optimum (6.5 g plant-1) and at limiting (2.6 g plant-1) N supply. With limiting N supply, bolting started four days earlier than at optimum N supply. The transfer from limiting to optimum N supply delayed bolting by four days. The foliar application of the gibberellic acid GA3 (10 mg plant-1) and the gibberellin synthesis blocker chlorcholinchloride (CCC, 100 mg plant-1) did not affect the onset of bolting. The application of the cytokinin benzylaminopurine (BA, 40320 g plant-1) using the stem-infusion technique delayed bolting by three and four days at optimum and limiting N supply, respectively. The effect of BA increased with increasing amount of cytokinin infused. The data suggest that promoted bolting at limiting N supply might be attributed to a limited export of cytokinin from the root to the shoot due to N shortage. Der Einflu des Stickstoffangebotes (optimal, 6.5 g Pflanze-1 und suboptimal, 2.5 g Pflanze-1) auf Kopffestigkeit und Schossbeginn bei Blumenkohl wurde in Nhrlsungsversuchen im Gewchshaus untersucht. Bei suboptimalem N-Angebot setzte das Schossen vier Tage frher ein als bei optimalem N-Angebot. Der Wechsel von optimal auf suboptimales N-Angebot bei 3 cm Kopfdurchmesser verzgerte den Schossbeginn um vier Tage. Die Blattbehandlungen mit Gibberellinsure GA3 (10 mg Pflanze-1) und Chlorcholinchlorid (CCC, 100 mg Pflanze-1) als Gibberellinsynthese-Hemmer hatten keinen Einflu auf den Schossbeginn. Die Stamminfusion mit dem Cytokinin Benzylaminopurin (BA, 40320 g Pflanze-1) dagegen verzgerte den Schossbeginn um drei Tage bei optimalem bzw. um vier Tage bei suboptimalem N-Angebot. Die schossverzgernde Wirkung nahm mit steigender Cytokinin-Zufuhr zu. Die Ergebnisse lassen vermuten, dass das beschleunigte Schossen bei limitiertem N-Angebot zurckzufhren ist auf einen durch Stickstoffmangel induzierten, geringeren Export von Cytokinin aus der Wurzel in den Spro.
24126396|Fruit set limits the productivity of the tomato crop in the greenhouse. In North Mediterranean conditions two tomato crop cycles can be carried out in the same year. Environmental constraints limiting pollination in the cycles may impose the use of different pollination techniques, both from the productive and from the economical point of view. The aim of this study is to analyze whether flower vibration, bumblebee pollination, or auxin spraying, improve fruit production of early and late tomato greenhouse crops. Treatments were more effective in the early crop, carried out in spring, than in the late one in summer-autumn. For both crop cycles, the highest production was for the bumblebee pollinated plants. The mechanical flower vibration technique and the auxin treatment significantly increased production in the early crop, but they were ineffective in the late cycle crop. However, treating the early crop with auxins may result in nipple-shape fruits. Earliness was not affected by the treatments. Fruit set was improved by all treatments tested and in both crop cycles. In both seasons, the use of bumblebees was the most successful treatment, and the maximum effectiveness was observed during the periods of low night temperatures in the early cycle, when fruit set was limited due to impaired production of viable pollen and/or poor pollen release. Auxin and vibration enhancement of fruit set was higher for the early than for the late crop cycle. The environmental conditions were determinant for the effectiveness of the treatments. Moreover, the bumblebee efficiency was demonstrated not only when the climatic factors were limiting for tomato fruit set, but also when fruit-set was not limited by natural climatic conditions.
24126353|The effect of the sharka (Plum pox virus, PPV) disease on the chemical composition of leaves and fruits of the PPV tolerant apricot cultivar (cv.) 'Harcot', and on the susceptibility to the physiological disorder tip burn of the apricot cv. 'Bebeco' were studied. Leaf analysis revealed that concentrations of N and Fe were increased by 9 and 21 %, while P, K and Ca concentrations were decreased by 32, 15 and 9 %, respectively on infected trees of the cv. 'Harcot' in comparison to the control. No significant differences were observed in chemical composition of fruits from PPV-infected and healthy trees of the cv. 'Harcot'. The N/Ca and N/P ratios of leaves infected by the PPV were increased by 23.6, and 61.1 % in comparison to the control, respectively. Nitrogen and Zn concentrations of the cv. 'Harcot' were higher, K and Ca concentrations were lower, whereas P, Mg, Fe and Mn concentrations were not altered significantly in comparison to the cv. 'Bebeco'. The ratios N/P, N/Ca, K/Ca, and K+Mg/Ca in leaves and fruits of the cv. 'Bebeco' were significantly higher in comparison to the cv. 'Harcot'. In conclusion, infection of apricot trees of the cv. 'Harcot' by PPV may affect their nutrient status (especially the N/P and N/Ca ratios in leaves). Furthermore, low Ca concentration of fruits of the cv. 'Bebeco' in comparison to the cv. 'Harcot', and high ratios of N/Ca, K/Ca, K+Mg/Ca, and N/P are related with the appearance of the physiological disorder tip burn. Es wurden die Auswirkungen der Scharkakrankheit (Plum pox virus, PPV) auf die chemische Zusammensetzung von Blttern und Frchten der PPV-toleranten Aprikosensorte 'Harcot' und auf die Anflligkeit der Sorte 'Bebeco' gegenber der physiologisch-bedingten Spitzendrre untersucht. Blattanalysen von infizierten Bumen der Sorte 'Harcot' zeigten im Vergleich zur Kontrolle einen Anstieg der N- und Fe-Konzentrationen um 9 bzw. 21 %, sowie einen Rckgang der P-, K- und Ca-Konzentrationen um 32,15 und 9 %. Es konnten keine statistischen Unterschiede in der chemischen Zusammensetzung der Frchte von PPV-infizierten und gesunden Bumen der Sorte 'Harcot' festgestellt werden. Das N/Ca- und N/P-Verhltnis von PPV-infizierten Blttern erhhte sich im Vergleich zur Kontrolle um 23.6 bzw. 61.1 %. Die Stickstoff- und Zn-Konzentrationen waren bei 'Harcot' im Vergleich mit 'Bebeco' hher, die K- und Ca-Konzentrationen geringer und die P-, Mg-, Fe-, und Mn-Konzentrationen unverndert. Die N/P-, N/Ca-, K/Ca- und K+Mg/Ca-Verhltnisse in Blttern und Frchten von 'Bebeco' waren signifikant hher als die von 'Harcot'. Zusammenfassend kann gesagt werden, dass sich die Infektion von Aprikosenbumen der Sorte 'Harcot' mit PPV auf deren Ernhrungszustand (vor allem in Hinsicht auf das N/P- und das N/Ca-Verhltnis in den Blttern) auswirken kann. Des weiteren besteht ein Zusammenhang zwischen der im Vergleich zu 'Harcot' geringen Ca-Konzentration der Frchte von 'Bebeco' sowie den hohen Werten beim N/Ca-, K/Ca-, K+Mg/Ca- und N/P-Verhltnis und dem Auftreten der physiologisch-bedingten Spitzendrre.
24126634|Grafting, even for tomatoes and eggplants, can be considered a useful tool for tackling the problems of soil borne diseases. However, marked variations in plant vigour in relation to scion rootstock combinations are observed in field conditions. Among the mechanisms causing such variations, are those connected to plant nutrition; however, information on this is incomplete and limited mainly to the cucurbits species. Bearing this in mind, the purpose of this study was to verify in which ways grafting combinations in tomato and eggplant determine variations in plant assimilation and macronutrient uptake. The study was carried out on tomato ('Rita' F1) and eggplant ('Mission Bell' F1) grafted with three rootstocks (Energy, PG3 and Beaufort) and self-grafted (Control). Self-grafted tomato plants and those grafted on intraspecific rootstocks (PG3 and Energy) were less vigorous and produced less dry epigeous biomass than plants grafted on interspecific rootstock (Beaufort). However, the converse was found in eggplant when Beaufort was used, proving the interaction between scion and rootstock. Nutrient uptake per hectare differed greatly in relation to grafting combinations, particularly with regard to phosphorous, calcium and sulphur for which the variations ranged between 100 and 300 %. This variability seems related to a differing degree of nutrient absorption, expressed by varying concentrations of these in the plant tissues, as well as to the different plant vigour expressed by the biomass production. The results have allowed highlighting how, scion/rootstock combinations in tomato and eggplant can considerably affect plant growth and the content of different macronutrients; therefore, fertilization should take account of the different uptakes in relation to grafting combinations when grafted plants are used.
24126691|The influence of planting stock, storage temperature, and of greenhouse temperature on sprouting of tubers, shoot emergence, and flowering time of two Asian populations of Gloriosa superba L. was investigated. Effects of the temperature during the first weeks and the last four weeks ("preparation") of dry storage as well as of greenhouse temperature could clearly be shown. If a temperature of 10 C during the first weeks of storage was followed by high temperatures of 24 C or 32 C during preparation, the dormancy of the tubers was broken. Prolongation of storage at 10 C and temperatures of 24 C or 32 C during preparation improved sprouting of tubers and shoot emergence after planting and decreased the number of days to flowering. The 32 C treatment gave the best results. If 32 C was applied in preparation a greenhouse-temperature of 22 C as compared to 17 C did not decrease the number of days to flowering. After storage and preparation at 10 C, sprouting and time of flowering showed the poorest results. Significant differences between origins have been found regarding shoot emergence and flowering time. Possible effects of temperature treatments in storage, preparation and cultivation of Gloriosa are discussed in comparison to effects of temperature treatments on Sandersonia, Gladiolus, Freesia, and Sparaxis.
24126273|American chestnut, hybrid hazelnut and grapevine were cultured in vitro on Nas and Read Culture Medium. Micropropagated scions (shoots) were micrografted on in whro-propagated unrooted rootstocks by hand. The scions (24 cm) and rootstocks (2 3 cm) were fixed using an elastic electric-wire tube or alginate gel beads. After grafting, the bases of rootstocks were dipped in 1000 ppm indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) solution for 5 s (grapevine) or 10 s (American chestnut and hybrid hazelnut). Grafted plantlets were then cultured in Jiffy peat plugs in vitro or placed in Jiffy peat plugs ex vitro and were gradually acclimatized. Scions of in vitro cultured grafts developed aerial roots and the grafting was unsuccessful. Two months after grafting, the survival of successful ex vitro grafts was ca. 50 % for grapevine, 70 % for hazelnut, and 80 % for American chestnut. The results indicate that, when grafted plants are preferred to own-rooted plants, micropropagated scion and rootstocks can simultaneously be grafted, rooted and acclimatized ex vitro. Amerikanische Kastanien, Hybridhaselnsse und Weinreben wurden in vitro auf Nas- und Read-Medium kultiviert. Mikrovermehrte Reiser (Sprosse) wurden von Hand auf in vitro-vermehrte unbewurzelte Unterlagen mikroveredelt. Zur Fixierung von Reis (24 cm) und Unterlage (23 cm) fanden entweder Ummantelungen von Elektrokabeln oder Alginatgelklemmen Verwendung. Nach der Veredlung wurden die Unterlagen 5 s (Wein) oder 10s (Amerikanische Kastanie und Hybridhaselnuss) in 1000 ppm Indol-3-Buttersure-Lsung (IBA) getaucht. Die veredelten Pflnzchen wurden anschlieend auf Jiffy Torfblcken in vitro oder extra vitrum mit schrittweiser Akklimatisierung kultiviert. Die Reiser der in vitro-kultivierten Veredelungen entwickelten Luftwurzeln und die Veredelung misslang. Bei den extra Veredelungen betrug die Anwachsrate zwei Monate nach der Veredelung beim Wein 50 %, bei den Haselnssen 70 % und bei den Kastanien 80 %. Die Ergebnisse zeigen, dass es bei Veredelungen mglich ist, die mikrovermehrten Reiser und Unterlagen gleichzeitig zu veredeln, zu bewurzeln und extra vitrum zu akklimatisieren.
24126878|Calcium (Ca) is an essential plant nutrient affecting the cell wall structure and many cell functions. Our earlier study carried out on carrot farms indicated a positive association between high Ca content in soil and good storage quality of carrots. Based on these preliminary results, the present study was conducted with the aim to improve the Ca status of carrot plants and strengthen the storage quality of carrot roots. Ca was added to soil by applying gypsum that contained calcium sulphate (CaSO4  2H2O). Field experiments were performed on four separate farms located in southwestern Finland in 2009 and 2010. Three Ca dosages were compared: 0, 575 and 1150 kg of Ca ha-1. Soil and carrots were analyzed for their Ca contents, and the storability of carrots was measured in storage experiments at 0.5 C. Soil amendment with gypsum had minor effects on the soil Ca content, but it did not increase the Ca content of the carrot roots. The soil sulphur (S) content increased considerably, but the higher S supply in soil did not enhance the S uptake of the plant. The Ca fertilization did not improve the storage quality of carrots. However, the Ca content of carrots showed great variation between different fields. Further research is needed to investigate the significance of the nutrient status in terms of the storage quality of carrot.
24126127|The results of a quick method for the determination of the water capacity of substrates are compared with those from DIN EN 13041. The results of the quick method have a good correlation to those from DIN EN 13041 when the substrate is filled into the cylinder of the quick method with a volume weight determined according to Vdlufa (2002b). Using the quick method the water capacity is slightly underestimated. If the air capacity is calculated from the total pore space and the water capacity, the air capacity is overestimated. Die Ergebnisse einer Schnellmethode zur Bestimmung der Wasserkapazitt von Substraten werden mit denen der Methode DIN EN 13041 verglichen. Die Ergebnisse der Schnellmethode korrelieren gut mit denen der Methode DIN EN 13041, wenn das Substrat mit einem Volumengewicht in den Zylinder der Schnellmethode gefllt wird, das nach der Methodenvorschrift des Vdlufa (2002b) ermittelt wurde. Mit der Schnellmethode wird die Wasserkapazitt der Substrate geringfgig unterschtzt. Wird der Wert fr die Berechnung der Luftkapazitt verwendet, wird diese berschtzt.
24126693|The purpose of this research was to know whether xylem differentiation and microsporogenesis processes were synchronised with the dormancy cycle in apricot (Prunus armeniaca L.) flower buds. These processes were related to the dormancy breaking in three apricot cultivars with a different environmental adaptability. Cultivars were selected on the basis of their different flowering and fruiting pattern: 'San Castrese', 'Canino' and 'Orange Red'. Biological and anatomical observations were carried out during an autumn-winter season in central Italy. The three cultivars showed a great difference in flower bud endodormancy overcoming and their chilling requirement varied from low to very high. During the different dormancy phases, anatomical observations showed a continuous and regular acropetal progression of primary xylem differentiation along the flower bud axis up to the ovary. In the cultivar with a low chilling requirement ('San Castrese'), the appearance of xylem 'Stage 3' (xylem vessels up to 3/4 of bud axis) and tetrads coincided with the end of endodormancy. In cultivars with a medium and high chilling requirement ('Canino' and 'Orange Red', respectively), a desynchronism between different events (endodormancy release, xylematic differentiation and microsporogenesis) was observed. Xylem differentiation and microsporogenesis appeared in advance with respect to endodormancy breaking. This state could be one of the causes determining the low or inconstant rate of blooming of certain apricot cultivars under non native environmental conditions.
24127047|Swedish ornamental nurseries are supplying fertiliser to field crops only during the first half of the growing season, due to the concern of growers that late fertilisation will delay development of freezing tolerance. Effects of fertilisation on freezing tolerance were investigated in two climate chamber experiments. Three different fertilising strategies were used on plants of silver birch and blue holly; one treatment according to ordinary practice with all fertiliser applied within the first half of the growing season, secondly a treatment with all fertiliser almost evenly spread out over the growing season, and the third treatment as the second one but with additional potassium and phosphorus added at the end of the growing season. The total applied amount of nitrogen was the same for all treatments. The plants had a growing season of 12 weeks, followed by 6 weeks of autumn climate, simulated in the climate chamber. During the autumn period plants were tested for freezing tolerance in freezing tests. The study showed that a fertiliser strategy with an almost even distribution of a balanced fertiliser during the growing season had no negative effect on the development of frost tolerance in silver birch and blue holly. Growth and freezing tolerance showed small differences between treatments, although the rate of development of freezing tolerance seemed to be slightly faster in the third treatment. However, the results showed differences in growth and development of freezing tolerance between the experiments, indicating that other growth factors than nutrient distribution had an impact on developing freezing tolerance. Nevertheless, the results indicate that growers can even out the application of fertilisers over the entire growing season without jeopardising the development of freezing tolerance and, thus, decrease the risk for nutrient leakage to underlying soil and water table.
24126917|Broadening the genetic base of cultivated plant species is crucial for breeding. A large genetic variation exists for common bermudagrass [Cynodon dactylon (L.) Pers.] in the Mediterranean region, shown to be within the center of diversity for the species. Thus, the objective of this study was to develop turf type tetraploid bermudagrass lines. Five local hexaploid C. dactylon var. dactylon genotypes were crossed with diploid C. transvaalensis Burtt-Davy (African bermudagrass) during JuneOctober 2011. The seeds were germinated and seedlings grown in pots. Hybrid individuals were determined via sequence related amplified polymorphic (SRAP) molecular markers. Thirty four percent of the 910 seedlings were found to be true hybrids, and 60 % (182) of these were selected for their turfgrass characteristics and transplanted into the field along with commercial bermudagrass cultivars ('Riviera', 'Tifway', 'Princess 77') and parental lines at a density of four plugs per m2. The experimental design was a randomized complete block design with three replications, established at Akdeniz University, Antalya on 28 July, and Alata Horticultural Research Station, Erdemli, Mersin, Turkey on 5 August 2012. Establishment rate (plot coverage), fall colour retention, spring green up, turfgrass colour and quality, seed head density, leaf texture, and growth habit were assessed from August 2012 to September 2013. One year after establishment, the turfs were subjected to drought stress for 45 days, which was followed by resumption of irrigation for recovery of the turf. Percentage of leaf firing under drought stress, and post-drought stress turf recovery were recorded. Significant variations existed for establishment rate, growth habit (prostrate vs. upright), seed head density (0756 seed heads per m2, leaf texture (very fine to coarse), drought resistance, colour and turf quality among hybrids. Morphological and adaptive traits were significantly correlated with each other at varying magnitudes. Turfgrass quality was significantly and positively associated with spring green up (r = 0.74), leaf texture (r = 0.45), establishment rate (r = 0.53) and turf recovery after drought stress (r = 0.35), indicating possibility for indirect selection. The hybrid genotypes with superior turf characteristics and drought resistance can be used to develop new, better adapted tetraploid bermudagrass cultivars for landscaping and sports turf.
24126519|The aim of this research was to evaluate the effects of three new different agricultural bio-stimulants, based on hydrolyzed protein coming from algae (M.A.E.), animal epithelium (A.P.H.), and lucerne origin (H.S.), compared to a control treatment (distilled water) on crop cycle, stem quality and root system growth in L. A. 'Brindisi' soilless cultivation. The bio-stimulants were applied eight times both at foliar and drenching level. The three bio-stimulants gave performances similar among them and higher than the water only according to some of the parameters: the crop cycle came early, the leaves resulted more expanded in the lamina and greener, the flower buds had a higher diameter; the root system showed a higher length development. Finally stem and bulb dry weights values were higher than the control. The bio-stimulant based on animal epithelium differed, from the vegetal and the algae-based ones, in the flower buds number (same values of the control), in the fresh and dry weights of leaves, buds and stem roots (values higher than the control ones). Regarding the cut stem quality if, on the one hand, drenching application method enhanced the stem height, on the other the foliar application increased in the flower buds number. With regard to bulb roots the foliar application method promoted the highest fresh weight value. The A.RH. with foliar application, compared to the water, advanced both the harvest of nine days.
24126124|Quality changes of three strawberry cultivars ('Camarosa', 'Cavendish' and 'Chandler') packed with perforated plastic boxes during the cold storage (0 C and 9095 % relative humidity) were investigated. Weight loss of strawberries increased as a function of storage time. Strawberry fruits were firmer in cold-air storage than at harvest. Colorimeter values (L*, a*, b*, C* and h) of strawberries stored 10 days decreased in comparison to initial values in all cultivars. Titratable acidity and vitamin C (ascorbic acid) contents of fruits decreased during the storage time. While the total soluble solid content of 'Cavendish' decreased, an increase was observed in 'Chandler'. Citric acid content showed an increase depending on storage time, whereas malic acid contents fluctuated during the storage period and decreased in all cultivars at the end of storage time. The postharvest life based on sensory evaluation was 10 days for 'Camarosa', 'Cavendish' and 'Chandler' fruits stored in cold air. Untersucht wurden Qualittsnderungen bei drei Erdbeersorten ('Camarosa', 'Cavendish' und 'Chandler'), die in perforierte Plastikboxen verpackt und kbl gelagert wurden (0 C und 9095 % relative Feuchte). Die Gewichtsverluste stiegen bei den Erdbeeren in Abhngigkeit von der Lagerdauer. Die Erdbeerfrchte waren im Khllager fester als zum Zeitpunkt der Ernte. Die Colorimeter-Werte (L*, a*, b*, C* und h) aller drei Sorten waren nach 10-tgiger Lagerung geringer als zu Beginn. Der Gehalt an titrierbarer Sure und Vitamin C (Ascorbinsaure) in den Frchten verringerte sich bei der Lagerung. Whrend der Gehalt an lslicher Trockensubstanz bei 'Cavendish' geringer wurde, konnte bei 'Chandler' ein Anstieg beobachtet werden. Der Zitronensuregehalt fiel in Abhngigkeit von der Lagerdauer, wohingegen der Apfelsuregehalt whrend der Lagerung schwankte und am Lagerende bei allen Sorten reduziert war. Die sensorische Beurteilung ergab, dass bei 'Camarosa', 'Cavendish' und 'Chandler' eine 10-tgige Khllagerung ohne uere Qualittseinbue mglich ist.
24127044|To reduce losses due to microbial spoilage and to meet new food safety regulations, the optimization of postharvest treatments and storage requirements is essential in the food supply chain management. In recent years, a couple of reports have shown that treatment of several fruits with acetic acid (AA) vapour could effectively suppress fungal decay. Strawberries are one of the most perishable fruits in the market and extremely susceptible to fungal spoilage. Gray mould, caused by Botrytis cinerea, is the main reason for decay. Applications of AA vapour at a concentration of 2 mg l-1 for 30 min once, twice or three times were evaluated as fumigation treatments for strawberry disinfection. AA vapour was also applied at 4 and 6 mg l-1 for 30 min each. Triple fumigation with 2 mg l-1 AA vapour was found to be most effective treatment resulting in a 56 % reduction of decay. Alternatively, a single treatment with 6 mg l-1 AA vapour resulted in 12 % lower infection. The aerobic mesophilic bacteria plate count (initial counts: 1.9  104 cfu g-1) was only slightly affected by fumigation. Mould counts (initial counts: 2.0  105 cfu g-1) were reduced to less than 103 cfu g-1at an AA concentration of 3 mg l-1.
24126170|Growth, flowering and cold hardiness of Rhododendron jakushimanum 'Blurettia' and 'Percy Wiseman' cultivated on ebb-and-flow benches and flooded with six different nutrient solutions was compared to plants fertilized with controlled release fertilizer (2 g L-1 Osmocote 15-9-9) under overhead irrigation. The following nutrient solutions were used for fertigation 60-20-60, 120-20-60, 180-20-60, 120-40-60,120-60-60 and 120-20-120 (N-P-K levels in mg L-1). 'Blurettia' plants fertigated with the highest N level were higher then in other treatments including controlled release fertilizer but number of leaves per plant was not affected. The lowest N level decreased both height and number of leaves of 'Percy Wiseman'. In both cultivars low N level as well as fertilization with controlled release fertilizer resulted in poor flowering. Also, increased P and K levels reduced number of flowers per plant in 'Blurettia' but in 'Percy Wiseman' the opposite was true. Overall EC values of growing media were several-fold higher in pots fertigated with ebb-and-flow system then in these given overhead irrigation and fertilization with Osmocote. In contrast, pH increase in the medium was more evident under overhead irrigation. Subirrigation resulted in significant salt accumulation in the upper part of growing medium even though plants were cultivated outdoor and some leaching due to rain should be expected. Nutrient content of leaves generally reflected composition of nutrient solution. However, plants fertilized with controlled release fertilizer had relatively low P and high Ca content in leaves. High N and K levels increased cold hardiness of Rhododendron leaves compared to both low N nutrient solution as well as Osmocote treatment. Es wurden Wachstum, Blte und Frosthrte der Rhododendron-Sorten 'Blurettia' und 'Percy Wiseman' verglichen, die auf den Ebbe-Flut-Systemtischen mit Verwendung von 6 verschiedenen Nhrmedien oder unter Sprhnebel gedngt mit Langzeitdnger (2 g L-1 Osmocote Exact 15-9-9) angebaut wurden. Fr die Fertigation wurden folgende Nhrmedien verwendet: 60-20-60, 120-20-60, 180-20-60, 120-40-60, 120-60-60 und 120-20-120 (N-P-K in mg L-1). Die Pflanzen der Sorte 'Blurettia', die mit dem hchsten N-Gehalt gedngt wurden, waren hher als alle anderen Kombinationen einschlielich der mit Langzeitdnger. Die Anzahl Bltter pro Pflanze war fr alle Kombinationen gleich. Der niedrigste N-Gehalt verminderte bei 'Percy Wiseman' nicht nur die Pflanzenhhe, sondern auch die Anzahl Bltter. Bei beiden Sorten fhrten niedriger N-Gehalt wie auch Langzeitdngung zu schwacher Blte. Die Erhhung von P und K verursachte bei der Sorte 'Blurettia' eine Verringerung der Bltenknospen, wohingegen bei 'Percy Wiseman' eine umgekehrte Tendenz festgestellt wurde. Der mittlere EC-Wert der Substrate in den Pflanzentpfen auf den Ebbe-Flutsystem-Tischen war um ein mehrfaches hher als der in den mit Osmocote gedngten und beregneten Tpfen. Im Gegensatz dazu war der Anstieg des pH-Wertes des Substrates bei der Beregnung viel deutlicher. Die Bewsserung auf den Ebbe-Flut-Systemtischen hat dazu beigetragen, dass sich in der oberen Substratschicht Salze akkumuliert haben, obgleich die Pflanzen im Freiland angebaut wurden und man annehmen konnte, dass der Regen diese auswaschen wrde. Die Nhrstoffgehalte in den Blttern entsprachen denen des Substrats. Es wurde aber festgestellt, dass, die mit Langzeitdnger gedngten Pflanzen ziemlich geringe P-Gehalte und hohe Ca-Gehalte in den Blttern aufgewiesen. Der hohe N- und P-Gehalt erhhte die Frosthrte der Rhododendronbltter im Vergleich zu Nhrmedien mit niedrigem N-Gehalt und zu der Kombination mit Osmocote.
24126204|In poinsettia plants (Euphorbia pulcherrima Willd ex Klotsch) the periclinal chimeric structure was demonstrated in two cultivars, 'Lilo Pink' and 'Marbella Marble', by gamma-ray treatment of the meristems. Ionizing radiation killed cells in L1 of meristems and cells from L2 (L1), which in turn were displaced by cells from L3 (L2). When the plants were induced to flower, these displacements resulted in red sectors in the pink bracts of 'Lilo Pink' and pink sectors in the marble bracts of 'Marbella Marble'. The outermost cell layer of pink bracts and of pink regions in marble bracts obviously contained anthocyanin even though these cell layers are reported to have the genotype for anthocyanin-free (white). When ten-week-old poinsettia plants were decapitated, in vivo adventitious shoots were produced on the cut surface of the excised stems. Averages of 14 and 19 adventitious shoots per plant were obtained with the periclinal chimeric cultivars 'Marbella Marble' and 'Lilo Pink', respectively. Most of the adventitious shoots, which were induced to flower, developed red bracts, which indicated the formation of adventitious shoots from stem tissue derived from L3 (the corpus) of the apical meristem. Only two adventitious shoots showed sign of a chimeric structure. The decapitation method is a very simple and low-cost method to produce adventitious shoots from poinsettia. Phytoplasma is carried from the mother plants to the adventitious shoots and thus the plants retain free-branching characteristics. In Poinsettien (Euphorbia pulcherrima Willd ex Klotsch) konnte die periklinalchimrische Struktur der zwei Sorten 'Lilo Pink' and 'Marbella Marble' durch Bestrahlung der Meristeme mit Gammastrahlen nachgewiesen werden. Ionisierende Strahlung ttete Zellen der L1 und auch der L2 des Meristems ab, welche wiederum von Zellen der L3 ersetzt wurden. Nach der Blteninduktion resultierte dieser Ersatz in roten Sektoren bei den rosa Brakteen von 'Lilo Pink' und rosa Sektoren bei den marmorierten Brakteen von 'Marbella Marble'. Die uerste Zellage der rosa Brakteen und die rosa Regionen in den marmorierten Brakteen enthielt offenbar Anthocyane, obwohl berichtet wurde, dass diese Zellagen den Genotyp "anthocyan-frei (wei) haben. Nach dem Stutzen 10 Wochen alter Poinsettien in vivo wurden an der Schnittflche des abgeschnittenen Stamms Adventitivtriebe gebildet. Eine durchschnittliche Anzahl von 14 bzw. 19 Adventivtrieben pro Pflanze wurde bei den periklinalchimrischen Sorten 'Marbella Marble' und 'Lilo Pink' erhalten. Die meisten Adventivtriebe, die Blten induzierten, entwickelten rote Brakteen, was zeigt, dass die Bildung der Adventitivtriebe von der L3 (Corpus) des Apikalmeristems abgeleitet ist. Nur zwei Adventivtriebe zeigten Anzeichen von Chimrstruktur. Das Stutzen ist eine sehr einfache und kostengnstige Methode Adventivtriebe von Poinsettien zu produzieren. Das Phytoplasma wird von den Mutterpflanzen zu den Adventivtrieben bertragen, wodurch die Pflanzen das Merkmal der guten Verzeigung beibehalten.
24126302|There is still a lack of information about the actual critical points of the industrial fresh-processing chain and on the current and feasible advances in the technologies to successfully preserve the minimally fresh processed (or fresh-cut) vegetable products. It is known that the minimal fresh-processing industry continuously needs to improve their technical support by renewing the processing lines as well as by introducing emerging and alternative preservation techniques, which reduce production losses and provide safer and higher quality products. In this work, an exhaustive review was done to put together information about the most critical points throughout all the stages of the production chain and storage conditions of minimally fresh processed leafy vegetables which determine their final microbial and sensory quality. The first part of the review includes an extensively discussion about the critical points of the production chain of fresh processed leafy vegetables such as cutting and washing. Recent improvements in washing and sanitizing agents such as chlorine, ozone, hydrogen peroxide, chlorine dioxide and antioxidant solutions, and their advantages and disadvantages are evaluated. The second part of this report is focused on the evaluation of feasible emerging preservation techniques such as superatmospheric O2 atmospheres, hot water treatments and UV-C radiation, as alternatives to the conventional ones to improve the final microbial quality and to extend the sensorial quality of minimally fresh processed vegetables. Es bestehen immer noch Informationsdefizite hinsichtlich derzeit auftretender kritischer Punkte in der industriellen Verarbeitungskette sowie hinsichtlich aktueller und potentieller Fortschritte in den Methoden zur erfolgreichen Qualittserhaltung von frischen minimal-bearbeiteten Blattgemsen. Es ist bekannt, dass die minimal-bearbeitende Industrie ihre technische Ausstattung sowohl durch Erneuerung von Bearbeitungsablufen als auch durch die Einfhrung neu entstehender und alternativer Qualittserhaltungstechniken, die die Produktionsverluste verringern und sicherere und bessere Qualitt liefern, stndig verbessern muss. In dieser Arbeit wurde ein ausfhrlicher Uberblick an Informationen ber die kritischsten Punkte in den einzelnen Stufen der Bearbeitungskette und in den Lagerbedingungen von minimal-bearbeiteten Blattgemsen zusammengestellt, die letztendlich ber ihre mikrobielle und sensorische Qualitt entscheiden. Der erste Teil des berblicks beinhaltet eine umfassende Diskussion ber kritische Punkte in der Bearbeitungskette wie dem Zerkleinern und Waschen. Aktuelle Verbesserungen bei den Wasch- und Desinfektionsagenzien wie Chlor, Ozon, Wasserstoffperoxid, Chlordioxid und Antioxidationslsungen sowie ihre Vor- und Nachteile werden beurteilt. Im zweiten Teil der Arbeit steht die Beurteilung von neu hinzugekommenen Konservierungstechniken wie der superatmosphrischen O2-Atmosphre, der Heiwasserbehandlung und der UV-C-Bestrahlung, die als Alternativen zu den herkmmlichen Techniken die mikrobielle und sensorische Endqualitt von minimal-bearbeiteten Blattgemsen verbessern knnen.
24126795|In this study, the impact of scion/rootstock combinations on the composition of carotenoids and fruit firmness during three ripening stages was investigated. Two tomato cultivars were assessed as scions: 'Amati F1', and 'Gardel F1', grafted on two rootstocks: 'Body F1' and 'Robusta F1'. To evaluate the effect of grafting and ripening stages on firmness and colour evolution of tomato fruits, the lightness coefficient L* and a*/b* index were monitored in tomatoes, harvested at technological ripening stages (orange to light red and red). The effect of scion/rootstock combinations on the coloration of fruits was more pronounced than on the firmness of fruits. Significandy lower a*/b* ratio and higher L* values were measured on fruits from 'Body F1' rootstock, which could indicate slower ripening compared to 'Robusta F1' rootstock and non-grafted plants. Fruit firmness was only significantly affected by the scion cultivars and ripening stages. In tomato fruit, three carotenoids were detected; lycopene represented the major, -carotene the second prevailing and lutein the minor carotenoid. Grafting significantly affected the composition of carotenoids in fruits of 'Amati F1' scion, where a significant increase of lycopene and a decrease of -carotene were measured in fruits correlated with a change from orange to red colour. The composition of carotenoids in tomato fruit is usually under genetic control, which was confirmed also in our study. However, our results also indicate that the levels of carotenoids and their composition can additionally be affected by scion/rootstock regulation and ripening stages.
24126126|The responses of pepper anthers to different concentrations of silver nitrate and in dependence of the donor plant growing conditions were studied for haploid embryo production via anther culture. U-247 and U-238 genotypes, which were selected from a local paprika pepper population, were used as plant materials. Flower buds were collected from the plants grown either in greenhouse or in open field conditions. Four different silver nitrate concentrations (5, 10, 15 and 20 mg l-1) were tested. Haploid embryos were obtained from all the concentrations tested, but with different production rates. The highest embryo formation (45.7 embryos per 100 anthers) was obtained from the genotype U-247 in the medium containing 15 mg l-1 silver nitrate. The anthers taken from the plants grown in the greenhouse produced more embryos than that of the open field conditions. In dieser Arbeit wurden die Wirkungen unterschiedlicher Silbernitrat-Konzentrationen in Kombination mit den Kulturbedingungen der Spenderpflanze auf die Bildung haploider Embryonen aus Paprikaantheren in vitro untersucht. Als Pflanzmaterial dienten ausgewhlte Genotypen (U-247 und U-238) einer lokalen Paprika-Population. Die Bltenknospen wurden sowohl von Gewchshaus- als auch von Freilandpflanzen genommen. Im Versuch wurden vier unterschiedliche Silbernitrat-Konzentrationen (5, 10, 15 und 20 mg l-1) getestet. Haploide Embryonen wurden bei allen getesteten Konzentrationen allerdings in unterschiedlichen Mengen produziert. Die von Gewchshauspflanzen entnommenen Antheren bildeten mehr Embryonen als die aus dem Freiland. Die hchste Embryonenproduktion (45,7 Embryonen pro 100 Antheren) wurde von Antheren des Genotyps U-247 auf einem Medium mit 15 mg l-1 Silbernitrat erzielt.
24126100|Tomato (Lycopersicum esculentum Mill.) seed lots harvested 60, 70, 80 and 90 and 50, 60, 70 and 80DAA (days after anthesis) in 1998 and 1999, respectively, were treated with controlled hydration at 25C for 26 h. Following drying, treated and untreated seeds were incubated (at 25C) and emerged (in peat moss) in lOOmM NaCI in order to assess the effect of the treatment on germination (total, normal and abnormal germination) and seedling growth (emergence, mean emergence time, seedling fresh and dry weight, hypocotyl and cotyledon length) in saline conditions. Na and Cl contents of the treated and untreated seedlings were also determined. The treatment enhanced normal germination, emergence, mean germination time, seedling fresh and dry weights, hypocotyl and cotyledon length, compared with untreated seeds. Treated seeds produced seedlings that had higher Na and CI contents compare with control under salt stress. Results indicated that controlled-hydration treatment increased resistance to salt stress in all developmental stages. Saatgut von Tomaten (Lycopersicum esculentum Mill.), das 1998 60, 70, 80 oder 90 und 1999 50, 60, 70 oder 80DAA (Tage nach Bltenffnung) geerntet worden war, wurde 26 Stunden lang bei 25C einer kontrollierten Hydratisierungsbehandlung unterzogen. Nach der Trocknung wurden behandelte und unbehandelte Samen bei 25C inkubiert und zum Auflaufen (in Sphagnum) in 100 mM NaCI-Lsung verbracht, um die Wirkung der salinen Bedingungen auf die Keimung (Gesamt-, normale und abnorme Keimung) und das Keimlingswachstum (Keimrate, durchschnittliche Keimdauer, Keimlingsfrisch- und -trockengewicht, Hypokotyl- und Kotyledonenlnge) zu untersuchen. Auerdem wurde der Na- und Cl-Gehalt der behandelten und unbehandelten Smlinge bestimmt. Die Vorbehandlung steigerte im Vergleich zur Kontrolle die normale Keimung, die Keimrate, die durchschnittliche Keimdauer, das Keimlingsfrischund -trockengewicht sowie die Hypokotyl- und Kotyledonenlnge. Das vorbehandelte Saatgut brachte unter Salzstress Smlinge mit hheren Na- und Cl-Gehalten hervor. Die hier dargestellten Ergebnisse weisen darauf hin, dass die kontrollierte Hydratisierungsbehandlung die Resistenz der Smlinge gegen Salzstress in allen Entwicklungsstadien erhht.
24126859|'Fuji' apple (Malus  domestica Borkh) is a popular cultivar due to its superior flavour, texture, and storability; however, poor fruit colour of this cultivar is a major problem worldwide. The objective of this study was to investigate effects of five 'Fuji' strains on yield (in 7 years) and fruit harvest-time quality attributes (in 6 years) under climate conditions of Intermountain West region of the United States. The strains were: 'Beni Shogun Fuji', 'Naga Fu 12 Fuji', 'Sun Fuji', "T.A.C. 114 Fuji', and Torres Fuji' on M.9 T337 rootstock. 'Sim Fuji' often had lower fruit weight than other strains. Strains differed widely with respect to their fruit peel colour. In general, fruits of'Sun Fuji' and "T.A.C. 114 Fuji' always had less but 'Beni Shogun Fuji' had more red colour than other strains. Torres Fuji' also tended to have slightly higher colour than some strains. Fruit of 'Beni Shogun Fuji' had higher starch degradation pattern than other strains because this strain matured earlier. 'Beni Shogun' also had higher sunburn and surface cracks but lower watercore than all other strains. Considering all yield and quality attributes at harvest, 'Beni Shogun Fuji' was a great choice for an early strain.
24126459|South African Iridaceae contain many genera with a high potential for new floricultural crops. This potential was accessed in four geophytic species of the genera Freesia, Sparaxis and Tritonia, native to the Cape Floral Region which are winter growing and spring flowering in the Southern Hemisphere. If forced as pot plants for the European autumn and winter months, their low temperature requirements during cultivation could represent substantial energy savings. The aim of this study was to evaluate and compare temperature and light intensity requirements of the chosen species when subjected to selected forcing regimes for pot plant production under Central European conditions. The trials focused on the following aspects: export during corm dormancy, storage conditions after export, forcing experiments at different periods of the year in Berlin and general cultivation requirements of the different species/hybrid. These were compared to Freesia  hybrida, a well known geophytic ornamental crop originating from South Africa, although mostly grown as a cut flower. Results were obtained by regular monitoring of inflorescence initiation in the shoot apex meristem as well as of the plant development. The export of dormant corms from South Africa proved to be uncomplicated as their dormancy could be further maintained by subsequent storage at temperatures above 20 C. Temperature during forcing was found to be the main factor affecting flowering after planting. The species varied in their sensitivity to growth temperatures above 20 C, but generally cultivation at 13 C at night was essential, with temperatures of 17 C and above possible during the day. During the Central European summer months, inflorescences in the terminal bud failed to completely develop or flower primordia were aborted within the corm due to the high growth temperatures. Also, low natural light levels during European autumn months increased flower abortion of the investigated species. A reduction in plant height and enhanced flowering could be achieved for some species by specific storage regimes.
24126672|Besides to conventional fertiliser use, organic and low-input technologies are being increasingly used for soil management in vegetable production. However, different factors operating during crop growth (i.e. the pre-harvest factors) and related to soil properties may affect yield and quality of vegetable crops. The present research aimed to study how different soil management regimes influence soil physical and chemical properties and how these affect yield and some quality traits of two major vegetable crops. We focused on lettuce, a major crop in the area under both conventional and organic production, and on cherry tomato, which is increasingly grown in organic vegetable systems. The soil management systems were: conventional (CM), following recommended fertilisation rates; low input (LI), using minimum fertilisation rates as needed; and organic, including manure application (MA) and incorporation of oat as green manure (GM) and of maize residues (MR). Preliminary results indicate that after 7 years of rotating vegetable crops soil properties tended to improve with some systems: e.g. lower bulk density and higher porosity with MA; higher cation exchange capacity (CEC) with MA and CM. After these 7-year pre-treatments, significant differences in crop growth and yields were observed for cherry tomato and lettuce grown under different production systems, but not for the overall quality indicators. The highest yields of cherry tomato were achieved with CM and MA, due to increased number of fruits per plant, with no differences in fruit weight. Lettuce yields were generally higher with CM compared to LI, although the effect was different for different types of lettuce: the leafy type produced higher yields per area whereas the Latin type produced heavier individual plants. Under organic soil management systems, the relative survival and the visual quality of the Latin type was reduced by Botrytis cinerea infections. The results of the study indicated that plots that underwent long-term applications of 15 t ha-1 manure every two years produced similar yields than conventional systems and had comparable soil fertility attributes. However, the visual quality of the end product may be affected under organic systems. As observed for lettuce, cultivar choice may also play a role, since some lettuce types appeared to be more suitable for such systems than others.
24126291|Flowering plants were regenerated from in vitro grown leaves of miniature rose (Rosa hybrida L. 'Linda') via somatic embryogenesis. Sufficient amounts of callus were produced on in vitro leaves of 8 cultivars ('Leonie', 'Linda', 'Sonja', 'Toledo', 'Tiffany', 'Mette', 'Etna' and 'Andromeda') incubated on MS media fortified with either 45.2 or 90.5 M 2,4- dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) for 6 weeks. Except for 'Tiffany' and 'Andromeda', embryogenic callus was induced on the callus of all cultivars incubated on MS media supplemented with different concentrations of zeatin or thidiazuron (TDZ). The highest frequency of primary somatic embryogenesis (30 %) was achieved with 'Sonja' on medium containing 22.7 M TDZ, but the embryos from 'Sonja' failed to develop into plants. Only the somatic embryos of 'Linda' developed into flowering plants thus further work was carried out with this cultivar. The frequency of primary somatic embryogenesis in 'Linda' was 3.3 % on medium containing either 45.6 M zeatin or 45.4 M TDZ. The highest proliferation rate (3.8-fold) and the highest frequency of embryo maturation (76.6 %) were obtained on 1/2 MS medium fortified with 7.57 M abscisic acid. Germination and subsequent shoot development on mature somatic embryos occurred in a medium containing 1.42 M 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), 17.76 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP) and 1.44 M gibberellic acid (GA3). Shoots were rooted on 1/2 MS medium supplemented with 5.7 M 3-indole acetic acid (IAA) and 9.84 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) and transferred to the greenhouse. The plants flowered after about 10 weeks and were morphologically indistinguishable from the original plant.
24126682|Coriander (Coriandrum sativum L.) belonging to Apiaceae family is one of the essential oil and spice plants in the world. Developmental stage at harvest is an important factor influencing seed yield and essential oil quality in coriander because of the changes during maturation period in fruits. This research was conducted in order to investigate adaptation and suitable harvesting stage in two coriander varieties (var. vulgare Alef. and var. microcarpum DC.) during 1999 and 2000 in temperate climatic conditions of the Central Black Sea region (Tokat) in Turkey. Field study was designed as a randomised block with a split-plot arrangement. Varieties were harvested at six different harvesting stages, from unripe-fruit periods to over ripened periods. The results indicated that var. microcarpum of coriander was more suitable for mild temperate climatic conditions of Central Black Sea Region. Brown-fruit stage in fruit developmental stage (45 days in var. vulgare and 40 days in var. microcarpum after the flowering) was suitable for harvesting stage. Both early and late harvesting stages caused yield losses and lower linalool content.
24126440|Godronia canker (Godronia cassandrae f. sp. vaccinii) is a severe disease in young plantings of highbush blueberry (Vaccinium corymbosum L.) in Norway. In Europe, only the imperfect stage (Topospora myrtillii) has been reported, and thus conidia produced in pycnidia are assumed to be important for dissemination of the fungus. The seasonal pattern of production of conidia was investigated in a commercial planting of 'Jersey' in 1998 and a research planting of 'Bluecrop' in 1998 to 2000. The disease became apparent in March on shoots infected the preceding growing season, and lesions started to form pycnidia containing conidia in April. Samples of stems with distinct lesions of Godronia canker were collected from the bushes every two to three weeks from early spring to autumn. Stem pieces with lesions were shaken in water to release conidia from the pycnidia, and the numbers of conidia were determined by microscopy. Conidia were present throughout the growing season, but the highest numbers occurred during May, with 106 to more than 107 conidia per lesion. The numbers generally decreased during July to 20% or less of that found in May, and decreased further during September to around 4%. Ability to germinate remained high throughout the period conidia were trapped, from April to November/December. Options to manage the disease are discussed.
24126475|Eight tomato cultivars of different origin were evaluated for heat tolerance. Plants were grown in growth chambers under two temperature regimes (37/27 C or 37/22 C day/night). Variations in leaf gas exchange rate as well as the vegetative growth and reproductive development in response to heat stress were investigated. Heat tolerant cultivars showed higher photosynthetic rate under heat stress conditions at the different growth stages in comparison to the heat sensitive ones. Photosynthetic rate increases from the vegetative stage, peaks at the flowering and declines at the late fruiting stage. The reproductive processes in tomato were more sensitive to high temperatures than the vegetative ones. Number of pollen grains, fruit set percentage and fruits fresh weight produced by the heat tolerant cultivars were higher than those produced by the heat sensitive ones. Night temperature had an effect on the number of pollen grains produced and released and fruit set percentage. A positive correlation between the photosynthetic rate and fruit set was observed.
24126300|Four different NaCl concentrations in the irrigation water, 0.8, 5, 10 and 15 mM, were applied as experimental treatments to cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.) grown in a closed hydroponic system. These treatments were attained by automatically injecting the required amounts of NaCl into irrigation water containing 0.8 mM NaCl, whenever water was mixed with fertilizers and drainage solution to prepare fresh irrigation solution. Initially, the Na+ and Cl- concentrations increased rapidly in both the fresh nutrient solution supplied to the crop and the drainage water, but they were stabilized to maximal levels depending on the treatment 4555 days after initiation of solution recycling. It was concluded that the Na+ and Cl- concentrations in the root zone were maximized as soon as the Na/water and Cl/water uptake ratios reached equal levels with the NaCl concentration in the irrigation water. Based on these data, relationships between the Na/water or Cl/water uptake ratios and the NaCl concentration in the root zone were established. The leaf Na+ and Cl- concentrations were influenced by both the external Na+ and Cl- concentrations and the season. The Cl:Na uptake ratio (mol basis) was higher than 1 at low external NaCl concentrations but decreased below 1 as salinity increased, thereby indicating a more rapid decline in the ability of the plant to exclude Na+ from the leaves as compared to that for Cl-. In einem Gewchshausversuch mit Gurken, die in geschlossenen Hydrokultursystemen angebaut wurden, enthielt das mit der Sickernhrlsungen gemischte Bewsserungswasser 0,8, 5, 10 oder 15 mM NaCl. Die vier obengenanten Behandlungen wurden durch automatischen Zusatz der bentigten Mengen von NaCl zu Wasser mit einem Gehalt von 0,8 mM NaCl erzielt. Die Na+- und Cl--Konzentrationen erhhten sich bald nach Aktivierung der geschlossenen Systeme sowohl in der Frisch- als auch in der Sickernhrlsung drastisch. Nach einer anfnglichen Steigungsphase reduzierten sich aber die Na+- und Cl--Anreicherungsraten in allen Nhrlsungen stufenweise bis auf Null. Dies fhrte 4555 Tage nach Aktivierung der geschlossenen Systeme zur Stabilisierung der Na+- und Cl--Konzentrationen in allen Frisch- und Sickernhrlsungen auf bestimmten Hchstniveaus, deren Hhe von den Behandlungen abhngig war. Die fortlaufende Anreicherung von Na+ und Cl- in den geschlossenen Systemen wurde auf die Angleichung der Na/Wasser- und Cl/Wasser-Verhltnisse mit der entsprechenden NaCl-Konzentration im Bewsserungswasser zurckgefhrt. Die gemessenen Hchstwerte der Na+- und Cl--Konzentrationen in den Sickernhrlsungen und die entsprechenden NaCl-Konzentrationen im Wasser ergaben mittels Regressionsanalyse ein Model, das die Schtzung der Na+- und Cl--Aufnahmeraten von Gurken in Abhngigkeit von der NaCl-Konzentration im Wurzelraum ermglicht. Die Na+- und Cl--Blattkonzentrationen wurden sowohl bei nderungen in der NaCl-Konzentration im Wurzelraum, als auch von der Jahreszeit beeinflusst. Das Cl:Na-Aufnahmeverhltnis, bezogen auf Mol, das bei verhltnismig geringen NaCl-Konzentration im Wurzelraum hher als 1 war, unterschritt diesen Grenzwert sobald die Salzkonzentration im Wurzelraum ber ein bestimmtes Niveau anstieg. Dieses Ergebnis weist auf eine schneller abnehmende Ausschlussfhigkeit der Gurkenpflanze fr Na+ als fr Cl- bei steigenden NaCl-Konzentrationen im Nhrmedium hin.
24126320|In this study, relationships between rooting capability and the changes of endogenous IAA and ABA hormone levels during rooting of hardwood cuttings of 5 BB, 41 B, and 420 A grapevine rootstocks were studied by RP-HPLC. The chromatographic method that we developed was used for the separation and determination of these hormones. For this purpose, the mobile phase composition was optimised in order to separate IAA (indole-3-acetic acid) and ABA (abscisic acid). Mobile phase was optimised by establishing relationships between retention parameters and single solvent polarity parameter. pH measurements in acetonitrile-water binary mixtures were carried out by using IUPAC rules. Different levels of IAA and ABA substances correspond to the different rooting ability of 5 BB, 41 B and 420 A hardwood cuttings. Low IAA and high ABA levels were detected in cuttings of 41 B and 420 A having low rooting rate, whereas high IAA and low ABA levels were detected in cuttings of 5 BB, having high rooting rate in dormant stage. In general, endogenous IAA increased, while ABA decreased during rooting process. It was found that there was a positive correlation between IAA level and rooting rate, but a negative correlation between ABA level and rooting rate. In dieser Untersuchung wurden die Zusammenhnge zwischen der Bewurzelungsfahigkeit und dem endogenen IAA- und ABA-Hormongehalt whrend der Wurzelbildung von Steckhlzern von 5BB, 41 B, und 420 A Rebenwurzelstcken mittels RP-HPLC ermitteln. Das hierfr entwickelte Chromatographieverfahren diente der Trennung und Bestimmung dieser Hormone. Fr diesen Zweck wurde die Zusammensetzung der mobilen Phase fr die Trennung von IAA (Indolessigsure) und ABA (Abscisinsure) optimiert. Diese Optimierung erfolgte dadurch, dass Beziehungen zwischen Retentionsparametern und den Polarittsparametern von Lsungsmitteln hergestellt wurden. Die pH-Messungen in der Acetonitril-Wasser-Mischung wurde nach IUPAC-Richtlinien durchgefhrt. Die verschiedenen IAA- und ABA-Konzentrationen entsprechen den Unterschieden in der Bewurzelungsfahigkeit der 5 BB-, 41B- und 420 A-Steckhlzer. Geringe IAA- und hohe ABA-Konzentrationen fanden sich in 41B- und 420 A-Steckhlzern mit geringer Bewurzelungsrate, wohingegen hohe IAA- und geringe ABA-Gehalte in 5 BB-Steckhlzern festgestellt wurden, die whrend der Ruhephase eine hohe Bewurzelungsfahigkeit aufweisen. Im allgemeinen nimmt der endogene IAA-Gehalt in der Bewurzelungsphase zu, whrend der ABA-Gehalt abnimmt. Zwischen IAA-Gehalt und Bewurzelungsrate konnte eine positive zwischen ABA-Gehalt und Bewurzelungsrate eine negative Korrelation festgestellt werden.
24126467|It is known that in the phenophase of crops exists several correlations. Former studies showed that the flowering stage was significantly correlated with the maturing stage in a negative manner and that the flowering stage could be used as the basis for early identification of the future fruit maturing stage. To study the correlation between the flowering stage and the maturing stage in pears, 113 pear varieties and 3 cross combinations consisting of 165 hybrid seedlings were used as materials to study the correlation between the flowering stage and the maturing stage in pears. The results showed that, in pears, there was a tendency that the later the flowering, the earlier the maturing, and that the florescence of very early flowering was significant later than middle and late maturity varieties. There was significant negative correlation between flowering period and fruit maturing period of 113 varieties. However, there was no correlativity in four maturity types, very early maturity, early maturity, middle maturity and late maturity, and the three cross combinations got the same results. The relatively centralized maturing stage of hybrid seedlings may constitute the main reason for the insignificant correlation between the flowering stage and the maturing stage thereof. So, florescence can't be used to predict maturity in not extensive segregation cross combination.
24126656|Open-pollinated (OP) processing tomato cultivars are preferred in Turkey by resource-poor farmers. Seven seed or tomato paste companies (14 % of the total) were found to be still distributing OP seeds. Seed samples of 38 different seedlots from a total of 6 cultivars ('C-37', 'Interpeel', 'Rio Fuego', 'Rio Grande', 'T2 Improved' and 'VF 6203') were collected. Only 68.4 % of the seed sources (26 seedlots) were free of seed-borne viral (tomato mosaic virus) or bacterial (Clavibacter michiganensis subsp. michiganensis) pathogens. In replicated field trials, conducted in the districts of Karacabey (Marmara Region) and Muradiye (Aegean Region), seedlots of OP cultivars were generally inferior to Fi hybrids ('Brixy', 'NDM 055' and 'Shasta') in yield and technological traits. In principal component (PC) analysis, F1 hybrids were the most separated group, while the phenotypes of some OP seedlots were more heterogenic. Hybrids were mainly separated by the 1st PC axis which mainly contains yield and Brix  yield (BY). Besides source-specific genetic differences, high degrees of phenotypic variances for yield were also present within most seedlots. Cultivar purity is apparently lost following many seed multiplication cycles carried out by the seed companies and/or the farmers. A comparison of selected populations with their original populations revealed that selection significantly increased yield and BY in all cultivars. Possibilities for genetic re-improvement are also discussed.
24126820|An investigation was carried out to study the effects of wood type (semi-hardwood and hardwood) and spermine (Spm) application on rooting and growth of Damask rose (Rosa damascena) and Musk rose (R. moschata) cuttings. The bases of cuttings were soaked in aqueous solutions containing 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4 mM Spm (plus 200 mg L-1 IBA in each concentration) for 24 hr and then were placed in greenhouse benches containing rooting medium under intermittent mist. In Damask rose, the highest rooting percentage (91.50 %), number of roots per rooted cutting (2.58), and root length (8.64 cm) were obtained for hardwood cuttings at 2 mM Spm. Shoot length was not significantly affected by Spm application. In Musk rose, the highest rooting percentage (66.25 %) and root length (5.21 cm) were observed in hardwood cuttings at 3 mM Spm. Semihardwood cuttings treated with 3 mM Spm showed the highest number of roots per rooted cutting (1.91). The highest shoot length (24.53 cm) was obtained on hardwood cuttings at 4 mM Spm. Overall, in both species, hardwood cuttings treated with 2 to 3 mM Spm, showed the best rooting and growth in the presence of a uniform 200 mg L-1 IBA which can be useful for propagators of these rose species.
24126434|The efficacy of CO2 enrichment for greenhouse production of woody plants has received scant attention. We present the results of studies to test the hypothesis that CO2 enrichment would increase the growth of vegetatively-propagated olive trees during greenhouse production during winter in a Mediterranean climate. One-month-old rooted cuttings of Olea europaea 'Arbequina' were grown for three months in greenhouses that were maintained at ambient CO2 concentrations or enriched to CO2 concentrations of 500 or 750 mol mol-1. CO2 enrichment at either level enhanced growth, with no differences in effects of the two elevated CO2 concentrations. Enrichment of greenhouse air to 500 mol mol-1 did not increase the growth rate of one-year-old trees in comparison to that of plants grown at the ambient CO2 concentration. Use of CO2 enrichment can facilitate rapid nursery production of olive trees during the winter season under Mediterranean conditions.
24126101|Onion (Allium cepa var. cepa; cv. 'Sherpa', type Rijnsburger) bulbs were stored for 36 weeks at 2C under different oxygen concentrations (0.5, 1.0 and 21%). Samples were collected after 9, 18, 27 and 36 weeks of storage. Water-soluble carbohydrates, respectively fructans were analysed using anion exchange chromatography combined with pulsed amperometric detection. Concentrations of total water-soluble carbohydrates in onion bulbs were different only for sampling dates after 27 and 36 weeks of storage. The reduction in water-soluble carbohydrates was highest during storage at 21% oxygen and lowest during storage at 0.5% oxygen. The reason for this effect was a reduced breakdown of fructans during low oxygen storage indicated by the fructan concentration and the degree of polymerisation. Our experiments' results suggest that vegetable crops containing higher concentrations of fructans are principally suitable for low oxygen storage. Speisezwiebel (Allium cepa var. cepa; Sorte 'Sherpa', Typ Rijnsburger) wurde ber einen Zeitraum von 36 Wochen bei 2C und unterschiedlichen Sauerstoffkonzentrationen (0,5, 1,0 und 21%) gelagert. Die Probennahme erfolgte nach 9-, 18-, 27und 36-wchiger Lagerung. Wasserlsliche Kohlenhydrate, insbesondere Fruktane, wurden mittels Anionen-Austausch-Chromatographie und gepulster amperometrischer Detektion analysiert. Unterschiede in den Konzentrationen der wasserlslichen Kohlenhydrate in den Bulben der Speisezwiebeln konnten erst nach einer Lagerdauer von 27 und 36 Wochen nachgewiesen werden. Die Abnahme der wasserlslichen Kohlenhydrate whrend der Lagerung war bei einer Lageratmosphre mit 21 % Sauerstoff am hchsten und bei einer Lageratmosphre mit 0,5% Sauerstoff am geringsten. Der Ursache dieses Effekts lag im verringerten Fruktanabbau bei der Lagerung unter reduzierter Sauerstoffkonzentration, was sich in hheren Fruktankonzentrationen und Polymerisierungsgraden der Fruktane manifestierte. Die Ergebnisse unserer Versuche legen den Schluss nahe, dass Gemsearten mit entsprechend hohen Fruktankonzentrationen grundstzlich fr die Lagerung bei niedrigen Sauerstoffkonzentrationen geeignet sind.
24126146|The effects of different priming treatments on final germination percentage (FGP), rate (G50), and synchrony (G1090) of the seeds of two lettuce (Lactuca sativa L.) cultivars before and after storage were investigated. Seeds of 'Cortina' and 'Greenlakes' were osmotically primed in K3PO4, KH2PO4 or NH4H2PO4 and PEG 8000, having a water potential of -0.49 or -1.5 MPa for 10 or 20 hours at 15 C in darkness. Following priming, the seeds were subjected to germination tests at 20 C from which FGP, G50, and G1090 values were calculated. Among all the priming agents, only priming with KH2PO4 (-1.5 MPa) for 20 hours improved the germination synchrony of low vigour cultivar, 'Greenlakes' and therefore KH2PO4 was selected to be the priming agent for subsequent experiments. Primed (-1.5 MPa KH2PO4, for 20 hours) 'Cortina' and 'Greenlakes' seeds were either surface dried for 2 h at 21 C and 58 % relative humidity or dried back at 20 C and 20 % RH for 2 h, then they were stored at 4 C (refrigerator) or 20 C (incubator) for one month. Following storage, germination tests were performed and it was seen that storing the primed seeds of both cultivars for one month had little or no effect on the viability (FGP) and germination rate (G50), but slightly reduced the germination synchrony (G1090). Die Wirkung von unterschiedlichen Behandlungsmethoden mit und ohne anschlieender Saatgutlagerung auf die Keimung in Prozent (FGP), die Keimrate (G50) und die Gleichmigkeit der Keimung (G1090) wurde an Saatgut zweier Salatsorten (Lactuca sativa L.) untersucht. Saatgut der Sorten 'Cortina' and 'Greenlakes' wurde in K3PO4, KH2PO4 oder NH4H2PO4 mit PEG 8000, das ein Wasserpotential von -0.49 oder -1.5 MPa aufwies, 10 oder 20 Stunden bei 15 C und Dunkelheit osmotisch aufbereitet. Die Keimversuche erfolgten bei 20 C, aufgrund der ermittelten Werte wurden FGP, G50 und G1090 errechnet. Da von den Agenzien nur KH2PO4 (-1.5 MPa) mit einer Behandlungsdauer von 20 Stunden die gleichmige Keimung der schwachwchsigen Sorte 'Greenlakes' verbesserte, wurde KH2PO4 als das Behandlungsmittel fr weitere Versuche ausgewhlt. KH2PO4-behandeltes (-1.5 MPa, 20 Stunden) Saatgut von 'Cortina' und 'Greenlakes' wurde dabei entweder 2 h bei 21 C und 58 % relativer Feuchte oberflchengetrocknet oder 2 Stunden bei 20 C und 20 % RH zurckgetrocknet und anschlieend bei 4 C (Khlschrank) bzw. 20 C (Inkubator) ein Monat lang gelagert. Nach dieser Lagerung wurden wiederum Keimversuche durchgefhrt, die zeigten, dass die Lagerung der behandelten Samen ber einen Monat bei beiden Sorten geringen oder gar keinen Einfluss auf die Keimfhigkeit (FGB) und die Keimrate (G50) hat, dass aber die Gleichmigkeit der Keimung (G1090) leicht reduziert wurde.
24126480|A better understanding and quantification of the interdependent relationships within the system crop production serves as a base for production planning and control in research, advice and commercial practice. Since the last decades a new tool was developed, designated by the item modelling, enabling to integrate the numerous factors and relationships involved in decision support and optimisation. Especially at the beginning, scores of approaches and programs nowadays outdated were used, aggravating the use and integration of older files and parameters. Therefore the authors tried to review the modelling research done as a base for future upgrading and application. Concerning crop growth the reviews are restricted to the models elaborated in their institute (parts I and II). Concerning crop development the reviews are based on international literature for vernalisation (III), photoperiodism (IV), endodormancy (V) and emergence (VIa, b). These reviews recognise the general physiological and modelling basics, the application, however, is focused on vegetable production. In this last review, the basics of crop emergence are presented (VIa) and approaches to model seed germination and subsequent heterotrophic growth, combined defined as emergence, are outlined as a function of temperature, soil/medium moisture, physical seedling emergence forces, sowing operations and soil properties. Criteria are emergence ability as well as emergence rate, the last resulting in the duration of the emergence phase. Parameters related to vegetable production are compiled, economic aspects are considered and conclusions on horticultural relevance are derived.
24126793|Increasing energy costs are a main concern in greenhouse plant production. At this it is uncertain, how the expected climate change will affect this problem regionally. Therefore the future greenhouse energy consumption was simulated with the help of climat realizations of high spatio-temporal resolution from the regional climate model REMO (UBA-Runs), based on the IPCC climate projections A1B, A2 and B1. Simulations were conducted for each hour of the periods 20012015 and 203145 on a 100 km  100 km grid for Germany, as well as continuously for each hour from 1951 to 2099 on a 10 km  10 km grid for the federal department Lower Saxony (Germany), employing the energy simulation system HORTEX. Furthermore the influence of a consistent 2-d bias correction on the projected signal was tested in a case study (53 03 N, 08 48 E). The results consistently show a strong mean decrease of greenhouse energy consumption for all scenarios by 2038 and up to 45 % for the area of Germany, diverging regionally. Higher absolute reductions in energy consumption can be expected in warm greenhouses, while low temperature set points result in higher relative energy consumption reduction. The latter might influence future utilisation concepts.
24126178|Plant regeneration was achieved from callus and cell suspension cultures derived from disc floret, ray floret and petal expiants of Gerbera jamesonii cv. 'Diablo'. The highest callus induction from these expiants was achieved with 1.5 mg l-1 NAA, 2 mg l-1 NAA and 2 mg l-1 2, 4-D, respectively. The highest number of calli producing shoots and highest average number of shoots per callus was recorded on MS basal medium supplemented with 2 mg l-1 BA + 0.5 mg l-1 IAA. The calli derived from all expiants cultured in media containing 2 mg l-1 2, 4-D were highly friable, had poor regeneration potential and were selected for cell suspension studies. Cell suspensions were initiated with liquid MS medium containing 2 mg l-1 2, 4-D and sub-cultured weekly to fresh medium to obtain maximum cell density. The cultures were allowed to grow into micro-colonies in liquid medium and subsequendy into calli on semisolid and solid MS medium. Calli differentiated into adventitious shoots on MS medium containing 2 mg l-1 BA and 0.5 mg l-1 IAA. Plandets were obtained from in vitro derived shoots with 5660 % survival after 30 days of their transfer to pots. Kallus- und Zellsupensionskulturen aus Scheiben- und Strahlenblten sowie aus Bltenblttern der Gerbera jamesonii-Sotte 'Diablo' konnten zu Pflanzen regeneriert werden. Die hchsten Kallusinduktionsraten wurden bei diesen Explantaten mit 1.5 mg l-1 NAA, 2 mg l-1 NAA bzw. 2 mg l-1 2, 4-D erzielt. Die grte Anzahl sprossbildender Kalli und die grte durchschnittliche Sprosszahl wurde auf dem MS-Grundmedium mit 2 mg l-1 BA + 0.5 mg l-1 IAA erzielt. Die Kalli aller untersuchten Explantate waren in Medien mit 2 mg l-1 2, 4-D stark krmelig, wiesen nur geringes Regenerationspotenzial auf und wurden fr die Untersuchungen mit Zellsuspensionskulturen ausgewhlt. Zellsuspensionen wurden zunchst in flssigem MS-Medium mit 2 mg l-1 2, 4-D kultiviert und dann wchentlich umgesetzt, um eine mglichst hohe Zelldichte zu erreichen. Die Kulturen konnten sich in dem flssigen MS-Medium zu Mikrokolonien und dann schrittweise auf halbfestem und festem MS-Medium zu Kallus entwickeln. Die Kalli differenzierten auf MS-Medium mit 2 mg l-1 BA und 0.5 mg l-1 IAA Adventivsprosse. 5660 % der in vitro-gebildeten Pflnzchen waren 30 Tage nach berfhrung in Erde vital.
24126911|The performance of an irrigation system is most often described in terms of its distribution uniformity. The standard procedure for measuring irrigation distribution uniformity does not take into account the spatial variability of water in the soil following irrigation events. This research was initiated to evaluate the irrigation distribution uniformity of golf course irrigation systems and soil moisture distribution uniformity following their application. The lower quarter distribution uniformity (DULQ) at five courses averaged 55 % and ranged from 45 to 63 %. Soil moisture lower quarter distribution uniformity (SMDULQ) was 11 to 20 % higher than irrigation distribution uniformity. Semivariance analysis revealed a strong spatial relationship for irrigation distribution. However, spatial analysis of soil moisture was not consistent with the variability in irrigation delivery. It was concluded that the interaction of soil properties with turfgrass, not irrigation delivery, is the most significant contributing factor to soil moisture uniformity. From this study it was concluded that irrigation distribution should not be the only measure of irrigation system performance when considered in the context of water availability.
24126234|It was the aim of this study to investigate denitrification N loss and plant effects on its variability in cultures of potted ornamental plants. Experiments were conducted in flow-through chambers with plants of P. zonale 'Grand Prix' and E. pulcherrima 'Sonora Red' grown in peat substrate. Acetylene was applied at 5 vol.% to inhibit reduction of N2O. N emissions from planted pots started to evolve 2 to 4 hours after each irrigation event and followed a peak shaped curve. Variability in height and width of peaks was high among replications. N emissions strongly depended on high substrate water content; they ceased when water content dropped below a threshold value. Permanent flooding as well as reduction of plant transpiration retarded the decrease in water content and increased the duration of N emissions. Plant transpiration showed a close relationship to vapour pressure deficit (vpd) of air and mean N losses showed good correlation to vpds. It was concluded that plant transpiration determined the duration of denitrifying activity. With increasing plant age and size the duration of N emissions shortened but plants also seemed to increasingly stimulate N emissions. Emissions from potted eight-week old P. zonale evolved sooner and reached a maximum that was more than twice as high as those of four-week old plants. Possible reasons for stimulating and reducing plant effects on denitrifkation are discussed. Das Ziel der Untersuchungen war, N-Verluste durch Denitrifikation sowie den Einfluss der Pflanze auf die Variabilitt der Verluste in Zierpflanzen-Topfkulturen zu erforschen. Dazu wurden in Durchflusskammern Versuche mit in Torfsubstrat kultivierten Pflanzen der Arten P. zonale 'Grand Prix' und E. pulcherrima 'Sonora Red' durchgefhrt. Acetylen wurde mit 5 vol.% eingesetzt, um die Reduktion von N2O zu hemmen. Zwei bis vier Stunden nach jedem Bewsserungsereignis begannen N-Emissionen aus den bepflanzten Tpfen zu entweichen. Die Emissionen folgten einem Peak-frmigen Verlauf. Die Variabilitt der Hhe und Breite der Peaks war zwischen den Wiederholungen hoch. Die N-Emissionen zeigten eine starke Abhngigkeit von einem hohen Wassergehalt und endeten erst, wenn dieser unter einen Grenzwert abfiel. Dauerhafte Anstaubewsserung sowie die Einschrnkung der Transpiration verzgerten das Absinken des Wassergehalts und erhhten die Dauer der N-Emissionen. Die Transpiration der Pflanzen zeigte eine enge Beziehung zum Wasserdampfdruckdefizit (vpd) der Luft und die mittleren N-Verluste waren mit dem vpd korreliert. Daraus wurde geschlossen, dass die Transpiration der Pflanze die Dauer der denitrifizierenden Aktivitt bestimmte. Mit steigendem Alter und steigender Gre der Pflanzen verkrzte sich die Dauer der N-Emissionen, gleichzeitig schienen die Pflanzen die N-Emissionen zunehmend zu frdern. Emissionen aus Substrat mit acht Wochen alten P. zonale entwichen frher und erreichten ein mehr als zweifach hheres Maximum als die aus Substrat mit vier Wochen alten Pflanzen. Mgliche Ursachen stimulierender und hemmender Pflanzeneffekte auf die Denitrifikation werden diskutiert.
24126621|The group of grapevine (Vitis vinifera L.) varieties with the denomination 'Vitouska', 'Vitovska', 'Grganja', 'Garganja' and 'Grganija' in their names (synonyms) still cause disorder, because they are often considered indigenous and ancient varieties in their cultivation area. Therefore ampelographic characterisations of these varieties were conducted with O.I.V. descriptor codes, some phyllometric measurements and also with DNA analyses. Furthermore, the results were compared to evaluate phenotypic and genotypic similarities among analyzed varieties, which still cause misunderstanding in varietal discrimination. Ampelographic and phyllometric observations determined the similarities between 'Vitovska grganja' and 'Maratina', especially in the characteristics of young shoots, mature leaves, bunches and berries. On the other hand, these two varieties differed from 'Vitovska grganija', 'Vitouska' and 'Grganja' in many characteristic. The 'Vitovska grganja' variety grown in Kras (Slovenia) showed an unexpectedly high similarity (91 %) with the 'Maratina' variety, nowadays considered an indigenous variety from Dalmatia (Croatia). According to previous studies the 'Maratina' variety corresponds to the 'Pavlos' and 'Malvasia del Chianti' varieties but this was not confirmed in our study. The variety 'Garganja' from Central Istria (Croatia) had a unique SSR profile which did not match any other studied varieties (not even 'Rebula'); only a weak similarity (38 %) with 'Vitovska grganja' variety was detected. The DNA analyses additionally contributed to the resolvance of the synonym and homonym dilemma linked to the denominations 'Vito(u/v)ska' and 'G(a)rgan(i)ja'; however, the importance of simultaneous usage of phenotypic and genotypic methods for the varietal distinction has to be underlined.
24126134|A molecular typing analysis by Randomly Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) was performed on the large collection of Gallica roses from the conservatory of the Roseraie de la Cour de Commer' (France; 281 cultivars). A Principal Components Analysis (PCA) of the PCR data produced a map of distances between varieties. The identification of varieties by date of creation and breeder reveals the occurrence of two allele flows in opposite directions during the domestication history (XIXthXXth centuries) of this horticultural group. The first flow corresponds to an increased molecular polymorphism of PCR fragments resulting from a higher heterozygosity. This increased polymorphism is due to extensive crosses between Gallica varieties and selection of cultivars with original morphologies and hybrid vigour. The second flow corresponds to achievement of inter-specific crosses of Gallica (4n) varieties by Rosa chinensis (2n) and parent cultivars; these crosses result in introgression of chinenses characters (red coloration of young follicles, recurrence) together with some decrease of the molecular polymorphism probably due to some reduction of polyploidy and/or heterozygosity. The description in the horticultural literature of the pollination practices suggests that the many Gallica varieties corresponding to the first allele flow were created by productive breeders using simple cross intraspecific pollinations between Gallica cultivars. The few varieties corresponding to the second flow were created by careful breeders who practised strict interspecific pollinations between Gallicas and Chinenses roses. Eine molekulare Klassifizierung mittels 'Randomly Amplified Polymorphie DNA (RAPD) wurde mit der sehr umfangreichen Sammlung von Gallica-Rosen des Konservatoriums 'Roseraie de la Cour de Commer' durchgefhrt (Frankreich; 281 Varietten). Eine 'Principal Components Analysis' (PCA) der PCR Daten ergab ein Diagramm mit Abstnden zwischen den Varietten. Zusammen mit der Beschreibung neuer Varietten durch die Zchter und den genauen Daten der Kreation belegen diese Daten zwei Allelflsse in entgegengesetzter Richtung whrend der Domestikation (19. und 20. Jahrhundert) dieser Gartenbaugruppe. Der erste Fluss entspricht einer erhhten Rate von molekularen Polymorphismen der PCR Fragmente, die wahrscheinlich auf eine hhere Heterozygositt zurckzufhren ist, die ihrerseits vermutlich auf sehr zahlreichen Kreuzungen zwischen Gallica-Varietten und der Selektion von Kulturvarietten mit ursprnglicher Morphologie und Hybridstrke beruht. Der zweite Fluss entspricht interspezifischen Kreuzungen von Gallica- (4n) -Varietten mit Rosa chinensis (2n) und ihren Vorfahren; diese Kreuzungen fhren zu einer Introgression von Chinenses-Charakteren (rote Frbung der jungen Follikel, Wiederaustreiben) zusammen mit etwas Abnahme der molekularen Polymorphismen, vermutlich wegen einer Abnahme der Ploidie und/oder der Heterozygositt. Die Beschreibung der Bestubungspraktiken in der Gartenbauliteratur fhrt zu der Schlussfolgerung, dass die zahlreichen Gallica-Varietten des ersten Allelflusses durch sehr produktive Zchter geschaffen wurde, die einfache intraspezifische Kreuzungen zwischen Gallica-Kulturvarietten ausfhrten. Die sehr viel geringere Anzahl von Varietten des zweiten Allelflusses zeugt von umsichtigen Zchtern, die sehr gezielte interspezifische Kreuzungen zwischen Gallica- und Chinenses-Rosen ausbten.
24126156|Experiments were conducted to determine the protective effect triggered by the plant growth retardant prohexadione-Ca (Regalis), bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPS) and oligosaccharides (OLS) in different host-pathogen systems. These molecules did not show any direct antibacterial activity in vitro. On tobacco leaves, LPS infiltration (100 g ml-1) prevented hypersensitive reaction (HR), whereas OLS at different concentrations did not give constant and reliable responses. On micropropagated pear plantlets in vials, only Regalis and LPS (100 g ml-1) gave a significant defence-related response against fire blight (Erwinia amylovora): in particular, plant-derived antimicrobial compounds were related to flavan-3-ols and appeared to be newly synthesized after LPS application. Regalis, applied at different concentrations, significantly lowered progression of bacterial wilt (Ralstonia solanacearum) and reduced leaf lesions of bacterial speck (Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato) and spot (Xanthomonas vesicatoria) on tomato plants in the greenhouse. OLS application (100 g ml-1) significantly protected tomato leaves from bacterial speck, but not from bacterial spot. Two treatments with Regalis, at a twelve-day interval and at different concentrations (75+50 ppm), gave a valuable protection of grapevine leaves to downy mildew (Plasmopara viticola) in the greenhouse. When Regalis was sprayed at different concentrations and at different times on potted plum trees kept outdoors it was apparently ineffective against bacterial spot/canker (Xanthomonas arboricola pv. pruni). These findings further support the potential of prohexadione-Ca and of other biotic molecules as tools for plant defence responses against different pathogens, in the perspective of integrated, eco-friendly and sustainable control programmes. Die Untersuchungen wurden durchgefhrt, um die Schutzwirkung des Wuchshemmstoffs Prohexadion-Ca (Regalis) und von bakteriellen Lipopolysacchariden (LPS) sowie Oligosacchariden (OLS) in unterschiedlichen Wirt-Pathogen-Beziehungen zu ermitteln. In vitro weisen diese Molekle keinerlei direkte antibakterielle Wirkung auf. Auf Tabakblttern verhindert die LPS-Infiltration (100 g ml-1) Hypersensitivittsreaktionen (HR), whrend OLS in unterschiedlichen Konzentrationen keine konstante und zuverlssige Reaktion hervorruft. Mikrovermehrte, getopfte Birnenpflnzchen zeigten nur bei Regalis und LPS (100 g ml-1) signifikante Abwehrreaktionen gegen Feuerbrand (Erwinia amylovora): die von den Pflanzen gebildeten antimikrobiellen Verbindungen waren insbesondere mit Flavan-3-ol verwandt und wurden offenbar nach der LPS-Gabe neu synthetisiert. Regalis, das in unterschiedlichen Konzentrationen angewendet wurde, verlangsamte bei Gewchshaustomaten die Entwicklung der bakteriellen Welkekrankheit (Ralstonia solanacearum) signifikant und reduzierte Blattlsionen, die durch Blattflecken- (Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato) und Ringfleckenkrankheit (Xanthomonas vesicatoria) verursacht wurden. Die OLS-Gabe (100 g ml-1) schtzte Tomatenbltter mit signifikantem Erfolg vor Blattflecken jedoch nicht vor Ringflecken. Zwei Behandlungen mit Regalis, im Abstand von zwlf Tagen und in unterschiedlichen Konzentrationen (75+50 ppm), fhrten bei Reben unter Gewchshausbedingungen zu einem Schutz gegen Falschem Mehltau (Plasmopara viticola). Regalis, das in unterschiedlichen Konzentrationen und Zeitpunkten auf getopften Pflaumenbumen im Freiland ausgebracht wurde, war gegen eckige Fleckenkrankheit/Krebs (Xanthomonas arboricola pv. pruni) wirkungslos. Die beobachteten Ergebnisse ermglichen die Anwendung als Pflanzenschutzmittel sowohl von Prohexadion-Ca als auch von anderen biotischen Signalmoleklen bakterieller Herkunft, welche bestimmte Abwehrreaktionen der Pflanze hervorrufen knnen. Das ist besonders wichtig im Hinblick auf integrierte, umweltfreundliche und nachhaltige Kontrollprogramme.
24126513|Red beet (Beta vulgaris L. ssp. vulgaris) is rich in betacyanins and total phenolics, which are desired by consumers due to their considerable free radical scavenger and antioxidant properties. The aim of the present research was to evaluate the effect of N starvation on accumulation of betacyanins and total phenolics in leaves and roots, as well as biomass production, tissue N concentrations, total chlorophyll content and leaf gas exchange. Leaves of hydroponically cultivated red beet plants subjected to nitrogen deprivation (22.4 mg l-1 N in the nutrient solution) over 26 d exhibited a dramatic increase of 262 % in betacyanin concentration, in comparison to adequately-fed plants (224 mg l-1 N in the nutrient solution). The corresponding increase of betacyanin concentration in the roots of N-starved red beet was also significantly higher, specifically 225 %. Furthermore, total phenolics concentration under N-starvation conditions increased by 39 % in the leaves and 379 % in the roots, in comparison to standard N supply. These results suggest that the biosynthesis of certain secondary plant metabolites, such as total phenolics and betacyanins, can be stimulated by nutritional stress in red beet plants. Dry leaf and root biomass production in N-deficient plants was significandy restricted by 300 and 250 %, respectively, in comparison with the control plants. The total N concentration decreased by 13 % in leaves and 66 % in roots of N-starved plants. Furthermore, the rates of net CO2-assimilation and transpiration, the stomatal conductance, and the concentration of total chlorophyll, were severely restricted by N- deprivation, indicating that the primary metabolism was severely limited by low nitrogen availability. Our results indicate that, in red beet plants grown under prolonged N-deficiency stress, high amounts of total phenolics and betacyanins accumulate especially in the roots, presumably because the allocation of N to secondary metabolic processes aimed at survival takes strong precedence over N utilization in growth processes.
24126113|Water resources for irrigation are becoming increasingly limited, therefore, reducing irrigation is a sensible strategy to save water and possibly improve fruit quality in apple production. We investigated plant water relations, growth, yield, and fruit quality of 'Pacific Rose' apple subjected to the following irrigation treatments: commercially irrigated (CI) control, where soil was maintained near field capacity throughout the season; partial rootzone drying (PRD), where half of the irrigation volume of CI was applied to only one side of the rootzone; and no irrigation (NI), where water was withheld for the duration of the experiment. Volumetric soil water content of NI and the un-irrigated PRD side were significantly lower than CI and the irrigated PRD side from 62 days after full bloom (DAFB). Leaf water potential () of PRD was similar to CI on most occasions, whereas  of NI was generally lower than CI from 95 DAFB. Neither irrigation treatment significandy affected shoot growth, fruit growth, photosynthesis, and stomatal conductance. However, NI leaves discriminated significantly less against 13CO2 late in the season. At harvest, PRD and NI had saved 0.78 and 1.56 megalitres of water per hectare compared to CI, respectively, and did not significantly reduce fruit quality or yield. Weil die Wasservorrte immer begrenzter sind, ist die Reduzierung der Bewsserung eine vernnftige Methode, um Wasser zu sparen und dabei mglicherweise die Qualitt der produzierten pfeln zu erhhen. Wir untersuchten die Pflanze-Wasser-Beziehungen, das Wachstum, die Erntemenge und Fruchtqualitt von pfeln der Sorte 'Pacific Rose', die hinsichtlich der Bewsserung wie folgt behandelt wurden: (i) die im Erwerbsanbau bliche Bewsserung (CI) als Kontrolle, hierbei wurde die Erde ber die ganze Saison nahe der Feldkapazitt gehalten, (ii) partielle Wurzelzonentrockenheit (PRD), hierbei wurde die Hlfte der CI-Menge auf nur einer Seite der Wurzelscheibe ausgebracht sowie (iii) keine Bewsserung (NI), hierbei wurde whrend des Versuchs kein zustzliches Wasser gegeben. Die Volumeterwerte des Wassergehalts der NI-Variante und der nichtbewsserten Seite der PRD-Variante waren ab 62 Tage nach Vollblte (DAFB) signifikant niedriger als die der CI-Variante und der bewsserten Seite der PRD-Variante. Das Blattwasserpotential () der PRD-Variante war fast gleich, das  der NI-Variante ab dem 95 DAFB im Allgemeinen geringer als das von CI. Keine der Bewsserungsvarianten hatte deutlichen Einfluss auf das Spross- und Fruchtwachstum, die Photosynthese oder die stomatre Leitfhigkeit. Allerdings unterschieden NI-Bltter zum Saisonende hin weniger deutlich bezglich 13CO2. Zum Zeitpunkt der Ernte hatten PRD und NI 780 bzw. 1560 m3 Wasser pro Hektar im Vergleich zu CI gespart, ohne dass signifikante Unterschiede bei der Fruchtqualitt und Erntemenge auftraten.
24126501|Chemicals are usually applied to fruit tree orchards with air-assisted sprayers. This involves a significant risk of off-target contamination by spray drift and losses on the ground. Wind is one of the most significant climatic factors influencing the efficiency of chemical distribution, since it may account for a large drift. The aim of the research was to evaluate the wind effect on the efficiency of an air-assisted sprayer in terms of spray coverage and leaf deposit on the canopy. An artificial vineyard was used to perform the different tests under standard conditions in terms of vegetation structure, and microclimate. Canopy coverage and leaf deposit were measured. The former did not allow to point out the influence of a moderate wind (2 m s-1), while the latter made it possible to evaluate the influence of wind speed  2 m s-1 on the efficiency of the spray distribution. In windy conditions (5 m s-1) treatment efficiency was reduced by approximately 70 % compared to no wind condition.
24126345|In postharvest the risk of produce losses due to mechanical injuries during harvest and handling, and to contamination with phytopathogenic microorganisms is very high. Root vegetables such as carrots are washed before packaging to remove inorganic and organic debris and to present the product appealingly. Hence, effective disinfection of the washing water is indispensable to eliminate the risk that carrots strongly loaded with microorganisms might infect previously uncontaminated tap roots. During the last few years, the addition of various sanitizers has been considered one of which is ozone. Ozone is highly bactericidic and fungicidic, and does not generate hazardous residues. On the other hand, ozone is a strong oxidant and might damage the produce. The aim of this study was to investigate the suitability of ozonated wash water for the assurance of carrots' quality and safety stored at 20 C during 10 days. Both in solution and on carrots, ozonated water effectively inactivated Pectobacterium carotovorum, a bacterium which causes the soft rot. On the other hand, washing carrots with ozonated water (ozone concentration: 4 ppm) for 2 min did not affect the physiological activity of the products. Hence, ozonated water can be recommend as a rather easily applicably and efficient sanitizer for the washing of root vegetables.
24126116|Valuable genotypes were identified in the existing genetic resource of black mulberry (Morus nigra L.) in Mahmatlar and Eirdir at Lake Eirdir (Mediterranean region) of Turkey. First, native black mulberry genotypes were surveyed for fruit and tree characters and second, twenty-eight pre-selected genotypes were evaluated as potential candidates for conservation of M. nigra germplasm. Flowering started in the beginning of April. Harvesting period was between first week of July and September. The leaf shape of all genotypes was unlobed, dentate and cordate and the leaves (except from M-22 and M-23) had dark-green colour. Values between 3.74 g and 5.67 g was found for average fruit weight, 15.7317.42 mm for fruit diameter, 21.6627.04 mm for fruit length, 13.1116.23 % for soluble solid, 1.351.86 % for acidity and 2.823.0 g g-1 for vitamin C. All genotypes had an attractive black-purple colour and medium-large sized fruits. Innerhalb der in Mahmatlar und Eirdir am Eirdirsee (trkische Mittelmeerregion) vorhandenen genetischen Ressourcen der schwarzen Maulbeere (Morus nigra L.) wurde nach wertvollen Genotypen gesucht. Hierfr wurden im ersten Schritt die Frucht- und Baummerkmale einheimischer Genotypen ermittelt und im zweiten Schritt 28 selektierte Genotypen als mgliche Kandidaten fr eine Erhaltung der Genotypen nher untersucht. Die Blte begann Anfang April. Die Erntezeit reichte von der ersten Juliwoche bis in den September. Die Bltter aller Genotypen waren ungelappt, gezhnt und herzfrmig und mit Ausnahme von M-22 und M-23 dunkelgrn. Fr das durchschnittliche Fruchtgewicht wurden Werte zwischen 3.74 und 5.67 g, fr den Fruchtdurchmesser 15.7317.42 mm, fr die Fruchtlnge 21.6627.04 mm, fr die lsliche Trockensubstanz 13.1116.23 %, fr den Suregehalt 1.351.86 % und fr das Vitamin C 2.823.0 g g-1 gemessen. Die Frchte aller Genotypen waren schwarz-violett und mittelgro.
24126858|Strategies to improve the nutrient use efficiency in the orchard should allow a synchronization of the dynamics of nutrients demand by trees with their availability in the soil. In the present study we assessed the dynamics of nutrient accumulation along a vegetative season into the bourse shoot (including one apple attached at its base) in two apple cultivais ('Golden Delicious' and 'Nicoter'). This model tree organ accounted for about three quarters of the fruits and for more than half the leaves present on the trees. On June 10, July 24, August 28 and October 8 (ripening stage for both cultivars) 2008, randomly-chosen shoots were removed, separated into leaves, shoot axis and fruit and their dry weight and nutrient content were determined. The bourse shoots of the two varieties differed in their dry matter allocation, the fruit being a stronger sink in 'Golden Delicious' and in 'Nicoter'. Nutrient uptake and biomass increases were partially decoupled. For all macronutrients except potassium (K) the accumulation rate peaked between June and July and decreased thereafter. The accumulation of K, on the contrary, occurred at highest rate until the end of August, and diminished only close to fruit harvest. All nutrients, with the exception of calcium (Ca), increased in the fruit until harvest. At harvest, more Ca and magnesium were found in the bourse shoots of "Nicoteti as compared to 'Golden Delicious', which in turn accumulated more K. The two genotypes did not differ for the total amounts of nitrogen and phosphorus accumulated in the bourse shoot.
24126732|A model has been developed which assesses the economic and environmental performance of crop rotations, in both conventional and organic cropping, for over 70 arable and horticultural crops, and a wide range of growing conditions in Europe. The model, though originally based on the N_ABLE model, has been completely rewritten and contains new routines to simulate root development, the mineralisation and release of nitrogen (N) from soil organic matter and crop residues, and water dynamics in soil. New routines have been added to estimate the effects of sub-optimal rates of N and spacing on the marketable outputs and gross margins. The model provides a mechanism for generating scenarios to represent a range of differing crop and fertiliser management strategies which can be used to evaluate their effects on yield, gross margin and losses of nitrogen through leaching. Such testing has revealed that nitrogen management can be improved and that there is potential to increase gross margins whilst reducing nitrogen losses.
24126138|Cultivars of the genus Pyrus, commonly known as pear, are generally propagated, by budding on rootstocks. Pyrus cvs. on their own roots may overcome the problems of Pyrus cvs. on the often used quince rootstock in calcareous soils and the problem of poor winter hardiness. Because small cuttings are difficult to root, at the first time investigations on propagation of long cuttings (100 cm) of Pyrus cultivars were initiated. The influence of pH and application of a slow release fertilizer on rooting in Pyrus communis cv. 'Williams Christ' long cuttings was investigated. The highest rooting percentage was observed at a pH of 5.7 in the substrate, while application of 2 kg m-3 Plantacote Mix 4M was optimal for rooting. The pH of the substrate affected the root number and the length of the roots. Use of Plantacote Mix 4M did not improve root length. The pH of the substrate and the use of slow release fertilizer influenced the length of side branches. The influence of apical and basal position and length of cuttings on rooting properties of Pyrus communis cv. 'Conference' was studied in an unheated greenhouse experimental set-up. The length of cuttings did not significantly affect rooting percentage. Cuttings taken from the basal parts had higher rooting than cuttings from apical parts. Long cuttings tended to have the highest number and length of side branches per cutting. Most of the rooted long cuttings develop flower buds before transplanting in the field. Loss of rooted cuttings due to poor overwintering is a common problem in many nurseries. The effect of two overwintering methods on subsequent field establishment was studied. Field establishment of rooted Pyrus cv. cuttings was more successful after leaving the cuttings in an unheated greenhouse in winter and planting out in spring as compared to field planting in autumn. Pyrus communis-Obstsorten werden generell ber Okulation auf Unterlagen vermehrt. Birnensorten auf Quitte okuliert wachsen schlecht auf alkalischen Bden und zeigen mangelnde Winterhrte. Sorten auf eigener Wurzel knnten diese Probleme lsen. Da Kurzstecklinge von Birne schwerer vermehrbar sind, wurden zum erstenmal Untersuchungen zur Vermehrung von Birnensorten ber Langstecklinge (100 cm) durchgefhrt. Es wurde der Einfluss von pH-Wert und Aufdngung des Stecksubstrates mit Depotdnger auf die Bewurzelung von P. communis 'Williams Christ' Langstecklingen untersucht. Das beste Bewurzelungsprozent wurde bei pH 5.7 und Applikation von 2 kg m-3 Plantacote Mix 4M erreicht. Der Substrat-pH-Wert beeinflusst die Wurzelzahl und die Wurzellnge. Plantacote Mix 4M beeinflusst die Wurzellnge nicht. Substrat-pH und -aufdngung beeinflussen die Lnge von Seitentrieben. In einem unklimatisierten Foliengewchshaus wurde der Einfluss der Stecklingslnge und -position (apikal/basal) auf die Bewurzelung der Birnensorte 'Conference' untersucht. Die Lnge der Stecklinge beeinflusst den Prozentsatz der Bewurzelung nicht signifikant. Basalstecklinge verschiedener Lnge zeigen bessere Bewurzelung als Terminalstecklinge. Langstecklinge haben die hchste Anzahl und Lnge von Seitentrieben. Die meisten bewurzelten Langstecklinge haben noch vor dem Auspflanzen Bltenknospen gebildet. Das Absterben von bewurzelten Stecklingen whrend der berwinterung ist ein bekanntes Problem. Der Einfluss von zwei berwinterungsmethoden auf das berleben nach der Verschulung wurde untersucht. Dabei war das berleben von Stecklingen, die im unbeheizten Gewchshaus berwintert und im Frhjahr verschult wurden, besser als nach Herbstverschulung.
24126292|In the life cycle of Venturia nashicola, causing scab of Asian pears, especially the stages of colonization and sporulation in the susceptible pear cultivar 'Suli' as well as the interference of the fungicide mixture Clarinet combining the anilinopyrimidine derivative pyrimethanil and the triazole compound fluquinconazole in different stages of the life cycle of the pathogen were studied by means of scanning and transmission electron microscopy. The results showed that conidia of the pathogen germinated and developed appressoria on leaves 1 day after inoculation (DAI). After penetration of the leaf cuticle, hyphae developed between cuticle and epidermal cells and beyond hyphae also spread intercellularly into the leaf tissues. Hyphae did not penetrate into the cytoplasm. The ultrastructure of host cells which had been contacted by hyphal cells showed marked alterations: their cytoplasm was disorganized, cell wall layers became indistinct, showed electron transparent areas and some host cells were collapsed. Sporulation of the fungus started with the formation of conidia 12 DAI. Subcuticular stroma produced a group of associated conidiophores (fascicles) that sometimes emerged through stomata. The cytoplasm of hyphal cells was dense with cell organelles and lipid droplets. Concentric bodies were found in the cytoplasm of conidiophores. Preinfectional treatment with the fungicidal mixture Clarinet showed that the product only exhibited a short protective action on preinfectional stages of V. nashicola. On the other hand, postinfectional treatments displayed pronounced ultrastructural changes such as disorganization and increased vacuolization, necrosis and irregularly thickened cell walls in stroma, subcuticular and intercellular fungal cells. Even when Clarinet was applied 12 DAI cytoplasm of subcuticular hyphae and fungal cells in the intercellular space of mesophyll tissue became disorganized and showed large vacuoles. The fungicide mixture severely interfered in development of conidiophores and production of conidia by causing morphological alterations. The specific modes of action and interference of both fungicides in the life cycle of V. nashicola as well as aspects of an antiresistance strategy mediated by application of the mixture are discussed.
24126816|In a five-year survey of blossom-end rot of apples in Northern Germany, Botrytis cinerea and Neonectria galligena were the most important pathogens, being present in 41.6 and 33.9 % (respectively) of a total of 1085 infected fruits. Two unidentified Alternaria spp. (together 10.2 %), Diplodia seriata (6.5 %), Fusarium avenaceum and F. lateritium (together 4.2 %), Phoma exigua and an unidentified Phoma sp. (together 1.8 %), and Stemphylium vesicarium (1.4%) were also isolated from disease lesions. In contrast, Neofabraea alba, N. perennans and Sclerotinia sclerotiorum were rare, totalling 5 infected fruits throughout the entire survey. Characteristic symptoms of blossom-end rot were associated with different taxa and are described. Successive years showed substantial variations in the relative contribution of different pathogens to blossom-end rot in Northern Germany, B. cinerea being dominant in 2008 and 2011, and N. galligena in 2010. In samples collected in 2012 from the Palatinate and Lake Constance regions of Southern Germany, the range of pathogens was as above, and B. cinerea was the dominant species in both areas. Implications of these findings for regional fruit production are discussed.
24126284|Simple, accurate and non-destructive equations determining leaf area of plants are important for many experimental comparisons. Determining the individual leaf area (LA) of eggplant (Solanum melongena L.) involves measurements of leaf parameters [length (L) and width (W)]. Two year investigation were carried out during 2005 (on five cultivars) and 2006 (on one cultivar) under open field and greenhouse conditions, respectively to test whether a equation could be developed to estimate leaf area across cultivars. Regression analyses of LA versus L and W revealed several equations that could be used for estimating the area of individual eggplant leaves. A linear equation having LW as the independent variable provided the most accurate estimate (R2 = 0.97, MSE = 89) of eggplant LA, but double the time required for leaf measurement. The quadratic equation (LA = 0.763 L + 0.340 L2) exhibited a high accuracy and precision (R2 = 0.92, MSE = 220) in estimating individual eggplant LA. We preferred this equation because of its simplicity and convenience, as it only involves one variable. Validation of the quadratic equation having L of leaves measured in the 2006 experiment under greenhouse conditions showed that the correlation between calculated and measured areas was very high.
24126457|The influence of fruit load per tree and reflective mulch on the content of phenol compounds was studied in two experiments conducted on nectarines (cultivar 'Stark Red Gold') from two orchards differing in tree density (1.660 and 830 trees ha-1). Low crop load significantly increased fruit size and weight in both trials. Other parameters such as soluble solids, flesh firmness, acidity and skin color were affected only in nectarines from the low density orchard. At harvest, fruits from the low density orchard were more mature on low crop load trees compared to intermediate and high crop load trees. Crop load clearly affected the concentration of phenolic compounds: low-load fruits had a higher accumulation of phenolic compounds in skin and pulp tissues. Concentrations of cinnamic acids and flavan-3-ols consistently showed an inverse relationship to crop load. Inter-row reflective mulching modified average maximum temperature and the intensity of reflected light in the canopy. The mulching also changed fruit quality at harvest by promoting the ripening and generally increasing the concentration of the main classes of phenolic compounds. Our data indicate that health promoting value of nectarine fruits can be enhanced by increasing phenolic content via crop load and reflective mulches.
24126645|The most common stated reason to consumer dissatisfaction with tomatoes is lack of flavour. It has been shown that a common storage practice among consumer households is to store tomatoes in the refrigerator, which have a negative impact on tomato taste. Thus, consumer postharvest treatment in home may be a reason to diminishing taste. In a Swedish consumer survey we find that 53 % are dissatisfied with tomato taste and that 74 % store their tomatoes after purchase in a temperature below recommendations. Research done on the effect of tomato storage has led to the suggestion that growers should educate consumers on handling practices in order to remove the negative effect chilling has on taste experience. However, past research has been conducted on samples that potentially do not represent the target consumer, as trained sensory panels do not perceive taste as untrained consumers do. Based on previous empirical studies using expert panels, we hypothesise that panels consisting of ordinary consumers will prefer tomatoes stored in room temperature to those chilled under ordinary refrigerated conditions (i.e. 7 C) regardless of variety. Thus, we replicate and challenge past findings and normative recommendations through the use of two experiments involving consumer panels evaluating two varieties of tomatoes, 'Arvento' and 'Tisto', stored two days in refrigerator (7 C) and room temperature (21 C) respectively. We found a significant difference in consumer liking for 'Arvento' that were unchilled (M=6.443, SD=1.765) and chilled (M=5.849, SD=1.894), t(351)=4.270, p<0.001 (two tailed), albeit with a small effect size (eta squared statistic (.049)). No significant difference in liking was found for the 'Tisto' variety. We find, contrary to previous research, that storage temperature has no or only a marginal effect on perceived taste among respondents in untrained consumer panels for the two varieties in our trial. Theoretical and practical implications are discussed.
24126346|The fermentative metabolism was studied in cv. 'Jonagold' apples stored at 0 C in the following controlled atmosphere (CA) conditions: 6 kPa CO2 + 0.5 kPa O2; 3 kPa CO2 + 1 kPa O2; 1 kPa CO2 + 2 kPa O2, and also in regular air (RA) as a control. Apples in RA storage showed very low pyruvate decarboxylase (PDC) and alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) activity, and low concentrations of acetaldehyde and ethanol. The production of lactate, and the activity of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) in apple fruit were inhibited during storage, but a slight increase was observed during subsequent 8 days shelf-life at 20 C. During CA-storage, cv. 'Jonagold' apples both the activity of PDC and ADH increased with a corresponding accumulation of acetaldehyde and ethanol, mainly in fruits stored at high CO2 and/or low O2 partial pressures. Both enzymes, and their products, decreased to low levels during the 8 days shelf-life at 20 C after CA-storage. Lactate content and activity of LDH in CA-stored fruit showed a similar behaviour to the RA-stored fruit, however, the reduction of the enzyme activity was greater under CA-conditions. Overall, it is concluded that cv. 'Jonagold' apple fruit synthesize minute amounts of lactate and LDH and play a minor / negligible role in the fermentative metabolism of cv. 'Jonagold' and possibly other apple fruit.
24126470|A new laboratory calibration procedure is presented to calibrate soil water sensors in coir. Water content was measured gravimetrically with load cells during a drying cycle determined by the evaporative demand of the environment as well as the water retention characteristics of the growth medium (coir). Sample mass and capacitance sensor output (mV) was measured and logged hourly. Excellent precision fits, indicated by R2 values greater than 0.99, for sensor response versus volumetric water content (v) were achieved by 4th degree polynomial curves. Accuracy of sensor-specific calibration was within 0.002 to 0.005 m3 m-3 root mean squared error (RMSE) for the EC-10 sensors and 0.002 to 0.003 m3 m-3 RMSE for the EC-20 sensors. This indicated that the instruments are very reliable and capable to measure water content of coir over the entire range from saturation to the lower limit of plant available water. Accuracy of a universal coir calibration was 0.05 and 0.025 m3 m-3 RMSE for the EC-10 and EC-20 sensors, respectively. Although the universal equations were less reliable than the individual equations, they still outperformed the equations provided by the manufacturer. The manufacturer's default calibration for soil underestimated v of coir by a large margin of 0.25 to 0.29 m3 m-3 RMSE for the EC-10 sensors and 0.27 to 0.33 m3 m-3 RMSE for the EC-20 sensors. It was therefore strongly recommended that the manufacturer's equations should be replaced by the universal equations when using coir. Regular re-calibration was found to be important for organic growth mediums, since they may deteriorate over time. In conclusion, it stressed the need for a reliable and accurate determination of calibration equations.
24126876|This paper reports on the effects of gibberellic acid (GA3) on floral formation and the potential for GA3 to reduce flower primordia formation in sweet cherry (Prunus avium L.). GA3 was applied to 4-year-old '0900 Ziraat'/'Gisela 5' trees at two growth stages (early flowering and beginning of fruit development) at the doses of 0, 25, 50, 100, and 250 mg L-1, for a 2-year period. Bud samples were taken from the beginning of July to the end of September in both years in six sequential dates. During the dormant seasons, buds were collected to determine number of flowers per bud. Samples were fixed and stored in a solution of formalin, 70% ethanol and glacial acetic acid (10:50:5, v/v). Flower formation in the buds was examined using a stereo zoom microscope and the morphological changes in each sample were recorded using a camera mounted on the microscope. Number of flowers per bud was negatively and linearly related to GA3 concentration. Floral formation in '0900 Ziraat' sweet cherry (untreated control) started in early-July and continued until mid-September. The progress during which the sepal, petal, stamen and pistil primordia were differentiated was considerably slower at GA3 applications. Imperfection of the floral buds was observed as the floral organs being replaced by leaf-like appendages or as none of the flower buds having one normally-developed flower primordia or as floral organs or flower primordia being much smaller than the other.
24126499|The most important problem limiting marketable quality in kiwifruit is the flat or fan shaped fruits. Although selective hand thinning and sorting can be used to remove these fruit, the cost increase may be considerable. This study describes the morphological changes on a microscopic level during flower formation at the reproductive primordia of 'Hayward'. Flower primordia with abnormal deviations were classified into four groups depending upon relative shape (flat or fan-shaped) and the number (double or triple) of the pistil. Normal and flat shaped fruits are similar to each other. Both fruits have a pericarp, mesocarp, seed bed, and core tissue. However, flat fruit has more loculi and wider core tissue. Fasciated fruits form when terminal flower fuses with one or more lateral flower. Double and triple fruit form when two flowers (one terminal and one lateral flower) or three flowers (one terminal and two lateral flowers), respectively, fuse together during ovary differentiation.
24126159|Rose (Rosa  hybrida), a popular and widely spread garden plant, is infected by numerous plant diseases, which are mainly caused by fungal and even by bacterial pathogens such as Erwinia amylovora, the causal agent of fire blight. Recently, prohexadione-Ca, a 2-oxoglutarate specific inhibitor originally developed as a growth retardant, was reported to influence the flavonoid composition of apple and pear leaves and, thus, to increase resistance against fire blight and other diseases. It was supposed that this approach could also mediate resistance in roses. As the first step, the induction of the antimicrobial 3-deoxyflavonoid in rose leaves after prohexadione-Ca application was investigated in a time course experiment. Due to the presence of disturbing phenolic compounds impeding the preparation and testing of enzymes, enzyme preparation procedures and assays had to be adapted and optimised for rose leaves. Standard enzyme assays are described for phenylalanine ammonia lyase (PAL), chalcone synthase/chalcone isomerase (CHS/CHI), flavanone 3-hydroxylase (FHT), dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) and flavanone 4-reductase (FNR). Cloning and heterologous expression showed that the DFR of rose exhibits FNR activity as well. Treatment of rose leaves with prohexadione-Ca led to the inhibition of FHT and to the formation of the 3-deoxyflavonoid luteoliflavan. Likewise, induction effects on PAL, CHS and DFR/FNR activity were also observed. In general, it could be shown that rose leaves produce 3-deoxyflavonoids after prohexadione-Ca treatment and, therefore, this method can be considered as a potential protection strategy for roses that will be studied phytopathologically in a next step. Die Rose (Rosa  hybrida), eine beliebte und weit verbreitete Zierpflanze, kann von vielen Pflanzenkrankheiten befallen werden. Die meisten werden von Pilzen verursacht, es gibt aber auch bakterielle Erkrankungen wie z.B. Feuerbrand, der von Erwinia amylovora hervorgerufen wird. Es wurde beschrieben, dass die Behandlung mit Prohexadion-Ca den Flavonoidgehalt in Apfelblttern beeinflusst und die Resistenz gegenber Feuerbrand erhht. Da Flavonoide generell eine wichtige Rolle bei der Pathogen-Abwehr spielen, wurde die Flavonoidbiosynthese in Rosenblttern, insbesondere die auftretenden Vernderungen nach Behandlung mit Prohexadion-Ca, im Zeitverlauf untersucht. Aufgrund des hohen Gehaltes an phenolischen Inhaltsstoffen, welche die Prparation und Untersuchung der Enzyme stren, wurden Enzymaufarbeitung und Enzymtests fr die Rosenbltter optimiert. Standardenzymtests fr die Phenylalaninammoniumlyase (PAL), Chalkonsynthase/Chalkonisomerase (CHS/CHI), Flavanon 3-hydroxylase (FHT), Dihydroflavonol 4-reduktase (DFR) und Flavanon 4-reduktase (FNR) werden beschrieben. Durch Klonierung und heterologe Expression der Rosen-DFR konnte gezeigt werden, dass diese auch FNR-Aktivitt besitzt. Die Behandlung von Rosenblttern mit Prohexadion-Ca fhrte zu einer Inhibition der FHT-Aktivitt und zur Akkumulation des 3-Deoxyflavonoids Luteoliflavan. Gleichzeitig konnte eine Induktion der PAL, CHS und der DFR/FNR-Aktivitt beobachtet werden. Zusammenfassend konnte gezeigt werden, dass die Rose nach Prohexadion-Ca-Behandlung 3-Deoxyflavonoide bilden, und dass diese Methode somit als potentielle Pflanzenschutzstrategie fr die Rose betrachtet werden kann. Im nchsten Schritt sollen phytopathologische Untersuchungen durchgefhrt werden.
24126852|We explored the potential of fluorescence ratios, based on multiple fluorescence excitation indices, as compared to chlorophyll fluorescence (ChlF) recorded with the pulse amplitude modulation (PAM) technique, for early and sensitive detection of water deficiency (WD) in tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) leaves. In this context, we hypothesized that the indices BFRR_UV (ratio of BF (blue fluorescence) to FRF (far-red fluorescence), both excited with UV-light), FLAV (logarithm of the ratio of red-excited FRF to the UV-excited FRF) and NBI (ratio of UV-excited FRF to the red-excited red fluorescence) of the multiple fluorescence excitation technique reveal the onset and intensity of WD in plants exposed to long-term WD, as well as during re-watering. For this purpose, three tomato genotypes were grown in the greenhouse under well-watered or long-term WD conditions. The decrease of the osmotic potential, relative water content and chlorophyll concentration as well as the increase in proline concentration confirmed the impact of WD leading to drought stress. ChlF recorded with the PAM technique showed significant differences between control and WD treatment in the relative apparent electron transport rate and the coefficient of photochemical quenching (qP). The indices BFRR_UV and FLAV significantly increased while the NBI significantly decreased during WD. As compared to the qP, the ratios BFRR_UV and FLAV provide information of equivalent quality concerning the genotype-specific responses to WD. Thus, the multiple fluorescence excitation technique establishes a valuable, fast and practical tool for the in situ monitoring of the physiological status of the plants without the need of dark adaption as required for the PAM recordings.
24126248|Stem-end rot was previously considered as post-harvest disease of citrus fruits, but recently, it has been observed as a cause of pre-harvest fruit rot in citrus orchards of Punjab state of India. Pre-harvest stem-end rot causing agent, Colletotrichum gloeosporioides, was characterized and evaluated on different stages of citrus cultivar, 'Kinnow' beginning from floral buds to mature fruits. Two isolates of Colletotrichum, Cg-1 (slow growing with orange pigmentation in culture media) and Cg-2 (fast growing, without pigmentation in culture media) were isolated from infected fruits, and ascribed to species C. gloeosporioides. All stages of fruit growth, starting from petal-fall stage to 14-week old fruits were found susceptible to stem-end rot infection after artificial inoculations under in vitro and in vivo conditions. Older fruits developed stem-end rot more quickly as compared to younger fruits. The symptoms appeared as necrotic lesions on unopened and opened flowers, and persistent calyces (buttons) formed as a result of flower infection. The symptoms initiated as brown to reddish brown or black spots in all stages near the stem-end region, which became firm and dry and ultimately, the rind became softened and resulted in rotting in the advance stages. Isolate Cg-1 was pathogenic to all stages of citrus fruits and, incidence remained the same irrespective of stage of fruit under both in vitro and in vivo conditions. Isolate Cg-2 was ineffective at both petal-fall and button-sized fruit stage, but caused serious damage in mature fruits.
24126168|In many fruit and vegetable crops, the number of bee visitations to receptive flowers can be the limiting step in obtaining optimal yields. Increasing the attractiveness of flowers to bees could increase visitation and provide a means of improving fruit yields and seed production. Nectar volume and sugar composition of male and female flowers of four cultivars of Cucurbita pepo L. (zucchini) pollinated by bumblebees were examined in a greenhouse environment. The number of visits to flowers, the number of seeds produced by visited flowers, and the sugar composition of nectar was determined during the spring. Patterns of nectar sugar composition, albeit being always sucrose rich, varied along the months of culture. There were no statistically significant differences among cultivars for the nectar sugar concentration. However, differences were observed between cultivars for the ratio of nectar sucrose/hexose. The number of seed set per visited female flower was correlated with the number of bee visits. Increased frequency of bee visits was correlated with higher volumes of nectar and with higher ratios of sucrose/hexose, which appeared to be useful indicators of pollinator preferences. Bei vielen Obst- und Gemsearten kann die Anzahl der Insektenbesuche bei empfngnisbereiten Blten der begrenzende Faktor fr eine optimale Erntemenge sein. Die Steigerung der Attraktivitt der Blten fr Insekten knnte die Besuchszahlen erhhen und eine Methode zur Steigerung der Ernte- und Saatgutmenge darstellen. Unter Gewchshausbedingungen wurde die Nektarmenge und die Zuckerzusammensetzung bei mnnlichen und weiblichen Blten von vier Zucchinisorten (Cucurbita pepo L.), die von Hummeln bestubt wurden, untersucht. Erfasst wurden die Anzahl Besuche pro Blte, die Anzahl Samen pro besuchter Blte und die Zuckerzusammensetzung whrend des Frhjahrs. Die Muster der Zuckerzusammensetzung im Nektar, wenngleich immer reich an Saccharose, variierte whrend der Kulturmonate. Es waren keine statistischen Unterschiede zwischen den Sorten hinsichtlich Zuckerkonzentration des Nektars nachweisbar. Allerdings wurden Sortenunterschiede beim Verhltnis von Saccharose/Hexose im Nektar beobachtet. Es bestand eine Korrelation zwischen dem Samenansatz pro besuchter weiblicher Blte und der Anzahl Hummelbesuche. Eine erhhte Frequenz von Hummelbeschen war mit grerer Nektarmenge und hheren Saccharose/Hexose-Verhltnissen korreliert, was geeignete Indikatoren fr die Vorlieben des Bestubers zu sein scheinen.
24126311|In vitro experiments were conducted to evaluate the efficacy of arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM) colonized root extracts of four plant species namely Trigonella foenum graecum, Ricinus communis, Solanum melongena and Morus alba (var. sujanpuri) on rhizogenesis of Morus alba (var. sujanpuri) under sodium chloride (NaCl) stress. The AM fungi (Glomus and Gigaspora species) were multiplied on above-mentioned four host plant species separately and the mycorrhizal root extracts were prepared by homogenizing well-colonized mycorrhizal roots. The extracts were added to Murashige and Skoog's (MS) media containing 0.1 to 0.4 % (w/v) NaCl. The in vitro grown shoot cultures of M. alba were transferred to different AM root extract MS media for rhizogenesis. The comparisons were made between indole butyric acid (IBA) (1.0 mg l-1) and AM root extracts. The AM root extracts of M. alba were found to be equivalent to IBA and better than other plant extracts in promoting rhizogenesis, root growth and proliferation under both (+) and () NaCl conditions. Es wurden in vitro Experimente durchgefhrt, um die Wirkung von mit arbuskularer Mycorrhiza (AM) besiedelten Wurzelextrakten der vier Pflanzenarten Trigonella foenum graecum, Ricinus communis, Solanum melongena und Morus alba (var. sujanpuri) auf die Rhizogenese von Morus alba (var. sujanpuri) unter Kochsalz- (NaCl-) Stressbedingungen zu ermitteln. Die AM-Pilze (Glomus- und (Gigaspora-Arten) wurden auf den vier obengenannten Wirtspflanzenarten separat vermehrt und der Mykorrhizawurzelextrakt durch Homogenisieren der reich besiedelten Mykorrhizawurzeln hergestellt. Die Extrakte wurden dem Murashige und Skoog (MS) Medium, das 0.10.4 % (w/v) NaCl enthielt, zugefgt. Die in vitro vorkultivierten Sprosskulturen von M. alba wurden zur Wurzelbildung auf die mit unterschiedlichen AM-Wurzelextrakten angereicherten MS-Medien umgesetzt. Es wurde zwischen Indolbuttersure (IBA) (1.0 mg l-1) und den AM-Wurzelextrakten verglichen. Die AM-Wurzelextrakte von M. alba erwiesen sich sowohl unter (+) als auch unter () NaCl-Bedingungen im Vergleich mit IBA als gleichwertig und verglichen mit den anderen Pflanzenextrakten als besser hinsichtlich Frderung der Bewurzlung, Wurzelwachstum und Proliferation.
24126341|A selection protocol to screen for powdery mildew resistance at an early stage in rose progenies was evaluated. Seedlings were grown in the first year in two separate greenhouse compartments: one with inoculation plants (C1) and one without (C2; control compartment). In the second year, the same genotypes were tested in the field under natural infection conditions. In the compartment with inoculation plants a high and uniform infection pressure was established. Selection for disease resistance could start more than one month earlier in the greenhouse compartment with inoculation plants compared to the control compartment. Significant correlations between greenhouse evaluation and field scores were found, especially for the families (F1) of different crosses. In commercial breeding, the proposed method can significantly reduce selection efforts and allows for a more economical and efficient manner to screen on a larger number of seedlings for resistance.
24126160|In pome fruit trees, the growth retardant prohexadione-Ca induces the formation of 3-deoxycatechins, which correlates with an increased resistance against fire blight and also against some fungal diseases. The formation of 3-deoxycatechins is due to the channelling of intermediates unusual for pome fruits, which requires the presence of a flavanone 4-reductase (FNR) activity. Here, it is investigated, whether the crop plants strawberry, grapevine, cranberry, cherry, peach, plum, elder, and kiwi fruit react in the same way to prohexadione-Ca application. The presence of FNR activity is shown by enzymatic investigations and the formation of a 3-deoxycatechin after prohexadione-Ca application in planta. Furthermore, by cloning of the corresponding cDNAs and studies with the heterologously expressed enzymes it is shown that the DFR enzymes of grapevine, cranberry and strawberry posses also FNR activity. Conclusively, all the crop plants studied have the potential to form 3-deoxyflavonoids. However, the changes in the flavonoid composition observed after prohexadione-Ca treatment were not exactly the same in all species studied here. In kiwi fruit leaves, a strong accumulation of flavanones rather than the formation of large amounts of 3-deoxycatechins is observed. Der Wachstumsregulator Prohexadion-Ca kann bei Kernobst die Bildung von 3-Deoxyflavonoiden induzieren, was mit einer erhhten Resistenz gegen Feuerbrand, aber auch gegen Pilzerkrankungen einhergeht. Das Vorhandensein einer Flavanon 4-Reduktase ist hierbei entscheidend fr die Umlenkung von Intermediaten in Richtung der 3-Deoxycatechine. In der vorliegenden Studie wurde untersucht, ob weitere Obstarten wie Erdbeere, Weinrebe, Cranberry, Kirsche, Pfirsich, Pflaume, Holunder und Kiwi gleichermaen auf eine Prohexadion-Ca Anwendung reagieren. FNR-Aktivitt wurde enzymatisch und durch die Bildung eines 3-Deoxycatechins nach Behandlung mit Prohexadion-Ca nachgewiesen. Darber hinaus wurde durch cDNA-Klonierung und heterologe Expression gezeigt, dass die DFR-Enzyme von Wein, Cranberry und Erdbeere auch FNR-Aktivitt besitzen. Generell wurde nachgewiesen, dass alle untersuchten Pflanzen das Potential haben, 3-Deoxyflavonoide zu bilden. Die Vernderungen im Flavonoidstoffwechsel nach Prohexadion-Ca Behandlung waren allerdings in den untersuchten Pflanzen unterschiedlich und fhrten beispielsweise in Kiwi zu einer starken Akkumulation von Flavanonen.
24126102|Two rose hip types thorny '25-mrk-14' (Rosa canina L.) and thornless '25-mrk-15' (Rosa dumalis Bechst.) selected from previous studies were used in this investigation. Samples of one year old twigs were collected and exposed to the artificial freezing test at -30 C for 0, 8, 16 and 24 hours from November through March. Throughout the experiments, several biochemical analyses on the buds of the rose hip genotypes, including total sugar, reducing sugar, sucrose and starch were performed monthly. Results indicated that there was a significant difference between the species of rose hips for resistance to cold, according to hours of treatment and month of samples taken. The '25-mrk-15' was less resistant than the '25-mrk-14' in terms of cold hardiness. Freezing tolerance in both rose hip genotypes is higher in January and February than November and December. The sugar ingredients of rose hip types increased from November to February, but decreased in March. Die in dieser Untersuchung verwendeten hagebuttenbildenden Rosenarten, die mit Dornen behaftete '25-mrk-14' (Rosa canina L.; Hunds-Rose) und die dornlose '25-mrk-15' (Rosa dumalis Bechst.; Graugrne Rose), stammten aus Selektionen frherer Versuche. Von November bis Mrz wurden von einjhrigen Zweigen Proben genommen und 0, 8, 16 oder 24 Stunden unter kontrollierten Bedingungen einer Kltebehandlung bei -30C unterzogen. Whrend der gesamten Versuchsdauer wurden an den Rosenknospen monatlich biochemische Analysen, wie Bestimmungen des Gehalts an Gesamtzucker, reduzierendem Zucker, Saccharose und Strke durchgefhrt. Die Ergebnisse zeigten einen signifikanten Unterschied im Merkmal Klteresistenz zwischen den Hagebuttenarten, der Dauer der Kltebehandlung und dem Monat der Probennahme. '25-mrk-15' war weniger klteresistent als '25-mrk-14'. Bei beiden Arten ist die Klteresistenz im Januar und Februar grer als im November und Dezember. Die Zuckerinhaltstoffe nehmen in den beiden Rosenarten von November bis Februar zu und fallen im Mrz ab.
24126439|Phenological data of sweet cherry (Prunus avium L.) cultivars 'Burlat' and 'Germersdorfer" were analysed to ascertained the effect of air temperature on the onset of phenophases (first bloom, full bloom, end of flowering, maturity and calculated period of fruit development) during two 5-years-periods: before (P1) and during climate change (P2) in Slovenia. Although non-significantly higher mean temperatures from January to March during P1 influenced earlier date of flowering. The onset of 'Burlat' flowering phenophases were statistically similar during P1 and P2, being later first bloom and full bloom in P2, but the onset of 'Germersdorfer' flowering phenophases were significantly later during P2. Significantly higher mean temperatures of April and May during P2 shortened period of fruit development for 7 d in 'Burlat' and 11 d in 'Germersdorfer'. The speed of sweet cherry phenological progress was influenced by temperature of the preceding months. Shortened period of fruit development will most probably reduce sweet cherry fruit quality and yield, but advanced flowering after warmer winter months will increase risk of spring frosts.
24126658|Heads of red, white and Savoy cabbage grown at the Norwegian University of Life Sciences in the season 2001 and 2002 were stored at 1 C for 20 weeks in controlled atmosphere (CA) consisting of 3 % CO2, 3 % O2 and 94 % N2, and in conventional cold storage. Samples were assayed for total antioxidant activity (FRAP), ascorbic acid and dry matter. The main result, as expressed by principal component analyses (PCA), was the difference between red cabbage, which was higher in vitamin C and FRAP, and white and Savoy cabbage which had the highest dry matter content. There was a large degree of overlap between the different samples for storage methods, storage time and year. In both years, the main effect of storage time on FRAP was non-significant. In 2001, significant differences in vitamin C and weight loss were found between the two storage methods, whereas dry matter and FRAP were non-significant. In 2002, significant differences were found between dry matter, FRAP and vitamin C, while weight loss was non-significant.
24126340|In this study, immature zygotic embryo expiants of 41 B American rootstock (V vinifera L. cvs. 'Chasselas' x V. berlandieri) were cultured on B5 medium (Gamborg et al. 1968) supplemented with 0.5, 1.0, 2.0 and 4.0 mg l-1 2,4-D (2,4 dichlorophenoxy acetic acid) in light and dark conditions. The highest somatic embryo formation was obtained from dark condition in the media containing 0.5, 1.0 and 2.0 mgl-1 2,4-D with the rates of 27.5, 22.0 and 20.0 %, respectively. The highest number of torpedo shaped somatic embryos was also obtained from dark condition with B5 medium supplemented with 1.0 mg l-1 2,4-D (565 embryos per explant). These torpedo shaped somatic embryos were used to produce artificial seeds. The somatic embryos were encapsulated in calcium alginate gel using various concentrations of sodium alginate (3 and 4 %) and calcium chloride (75,100 and 125 mM) in order to determine the effect of rigidity of bead on conversion frequency of somatic embryos. The mixture of 3 % sodium alginate and 125 mM calcium chloride was found to be the optimal combination for encapsulation. The encapsulated somatic embryos were transferred to the hormone free MS medium (Murashige and Skoog 1962) for germination and the germination rates were between 54 and 74 %.
24126851|Fruit diameter increase was monitored in four apple cultivars during three consecutive years (20062008) from t-stage until harvest. Individual fruit diameter increase was described using a negative exponential equation. Fruit growth curves of early ('Gala Brookfield'), mid-season ('Golden Delicious Reinders') and late ripening apple cultivars ('Braeburn Hillwell', 'Fuji Kiku 8') were denoted with an appropriate nonlinear model and each model parameter was evaluated separately. Apple fruit analyzed in the present study exhibited a similar growth curve for all analyzed cultivars i.e. a linear increase in fruit diameter in the beginning of fruit growth, followed by a slow curvilinear enlargement towards the asymptote in the final stages of fruit growth a few weeks before technological maturity. Asymptote was significantly dependent on cultivar, exhibiting higher correlation between predicted final fruit diameter and measured fruit diameter at harvest for late ripening cultivars. Similar growth rates have been calculated for 'Gala Brookfield', 'Golden Delicious Reinders' and 'Fuji Kiku 8' and a slower growth rate was characteristic for 'Braeburn Hillwell' cultivar.
24126105|A study was conducted to assess the relationship between skin speckle, soluble solids content, stomata, lenticels and transpiration rate of nectarine fruit {Prunus persica (L.) Batsch) of two cultivars 'Snowqueen' and 'Fairlane'. Fruit soluble solids content and transpiration rate per fruit and surface area were measured on tissue samples taken from fruit parts with and without skin speckles. Soluble solids content and transpiration rate varied for a fruit and were higher in fruit parts with skin speckles than in fruit parts without skin speckles. Results reflected a positive association between skin speckle, soluble solids content and transpiration rate. This positive association provides a challenge for breeders, which is to produce fruits without skin speckles while not adversely affecting sugar levels. Die Untersuchung wurde durchgefhrt, um den Zusammenhang zwischen Hautsprenkeln, Gehalt an lslichen Kohlenhydraten, Stomata, Lentizellen und Transpirationsrate bei Nektarinenfrchten (Prunus persica (L.) Batsch) der Sorten 'Snowqueen' und 'Fairlane' abzuschtzen. Der Gehalt an lslichen Kohlenhydraten, die Transpirationsrate pro Frucht und die Fruchtoberflche wurden an Gewebeproben von Fruchtpartien mit und ohne Hautsprenkel gemessen. Der Gehalt an lslichen Kohlenhydraten und die Transpirationsrate variieren innerhalb einer Frucht und sind in Fruchtteilen mit Sprenkeln hher als in solchen ohne Sprenkel. Die Ergebnisse weisen auf einen positiven Zusammenhang zwischen Hautsprenkeln, Gehalt an lslichen Kohlenhydraten und Transpirationsrate hin. Dieser positive Zusammenhang stellt eine zchterische Herausforderung dar, die darin besteht, Frchte ohne Hautsprenkel zu zchten ohne dabei den Zuckergehalt negativ zu beeinflussen.
24126221|The genus Anemone (Ranunculaceae) includes about 85 species. The Mediterranean basin is the centre of differentiation for many of the species that have contributed to presently cultivated varieties: A. coronaria, A. hortensis, A. pavonina and A. x fulgens. A. coronaria is, either in nature or under culture conditions, a winter-flowering species and the progenitor of the varieties currently grown for cut-flower production and garden ornament. Current cultivars cluster series of sub-cultivars which are characterised by quite uniform colour. Nevertheless other traits as flower production, precocity and flower quality show an evident genetic variation. A. coronaria may be considered a multifunctional species. It is expected that new cultivars will carry a set of distinctive traits that make them suitable for definite uses: cut flower production, garden or pot plants. In recent years, new tools that may support breeding activities were established: in vitro propagation of adult plants and seedlings, androgenetic plant production, characterization of populations and cultivars by molecular markers and detection of Single Nucleotide Polymorphism in cDNA. In consideration of the potentials of such tools, two major strategies are proposed for breeding new cultivars: A) crosses between selected heterozygous parents and B) crosses between inbreed homozygous or androgenetic parents in order to obtain true F1 hybrids.
24126720|Plants of the annual-fruiting raspberry (Rubus idaeus L.) cultivars 'Autumn Treasure', 'Erika' and 'Polka' were raised in a phytotron under different temperature and day-length conditions for six weeks, and subsequently cropped in an open plastic tunnel at latitude 61 N. Flowering and fruit maturation were advanced and yield increased with increasing raising temperature over the 15-25 C range in 'Erika' and 'Polka', while 20 C was optimal for 'Autumn Treasure'. Long day (LD) conditions (20 h) likewise advanced flowering and increased fruit yield compared with 10 h photoperiod at all temperatures in 'Erika' and 'Polka', while photoperiod had no significant effect on flowering and fruit yield in 'Autumn Treasure'. In agreement with earlier findings, low temperature vernalization at 6 C for six weeks increased flowering and fruit yield in 'Polka' compared with control plants raised at 18 C. Vernalization also advanced the transition to flowering by reducing the number of nodes formed before flowering in 'Autumn Treasure' without increasing fruit yield, while flowering and fruiting were not promoted by vernalization in 'Erika'. 'Erika' out-yielded the other cultivars under all conditions and produced remarkable yields of 3.3 kg plant-1 when raised in LD at 25 C. With its great yield potential and large fruits with excellent flavour, 'Erika' presents itself as a very promising cultivar, especially for environments with long growing season. The number of fruiting nodes was the single most important plant structural component associated with high fruit yield, accounting for 76 % of the total variation in the total data material.
24126733|An experiment was conduced to study the response of pepper plants under saline conditions (30 mM NaCl) on growth, cation uptake, and water and ion relations. The physiological role of K+ under the saline conditions was studied. Pepper plants were cultivated with five different nutrient solutions that included four K+ treatments (0.2,2.0,7.0 and 14.0 mM K+) with 30 mM NaCl and an additional treatment with 7 mM K+ without salt. Plants were grown in hydroponics in a controlled-environment greenhouse and the experiment was carried out until the start of the fruiting phase. Salinity reduced reproductive organs dry weight and shoot dry weight but not root dry weight. Salinity did not affect water relations at dawn but affected ion relations in leaf sap and decreased relative water content at midday. The concentration in leaf sap of Cl- and the organic solutes fructose, glucose and myo-inositol increased in salt-stressed plants. In addition, salinity produced nutrient unbalance in both leaf and root by increasing the Cl-/NO3- ratio. On the other hand, increasing K+ concentration in the nutrient solution increased salt tolerance as indicated by the increases in shoot and root dry weights. This effect was mainly due to the fact that plants under high K+ concentrations are able to keep adequate water and ion relations with a high K/Na ratio while plants under low K+ decreased the osmotic potential and showed dehydration leaf signs. Leaf sap oxalic acid concentration increased in parallel to leaf sap K+ concentration and leaf sap fructose and glucose decreased with the increase of the K+ level in the nutrient solution.
24126144|In a model breeding program Rdr1, a gene conferring resistance to black spot (Diplocarpon rosae Wolf) was introduced from a wild rose species into the genetic background of cultivated tetraploid roses. The chromosomal set of the original diploid donor genotype, a Rosa multiflora hybrid, was doubled via colchicine treatment and crossed to a tetraploid hybrid tea variety. The resulting hybrid genotype, 91/100-5, was crossed to a Floribunda garden rose and the resulting progeny was tested for black spot resistance. AFLP markers were then used to screen a subset of the resistant progeny for the fraction of donor genome, which segregates from 32 to 84 % in this population. The genotype with the smallest number of donor-specific markers was further backcrossed to the Floribunda parent and the hybrid tea grandparent, and the analyses conducted in the previous generation were repeated. The BC2 population segregated for the fraction of the original donor genome, ranging from 12.3 % to 32 %. A parallel screen for morphological markers in the BCi demonstrated the superiority of the molecular markers for the reduction of the genetic background of wild rose species in introgression programs allowing a more efficient utilization of wild rose germplasm. In einem Modellzuchtversuch wurde das Resistenzgen Rdr1, welches Resistenz gegen den Sternrutau an Rosen vermittelt, in den genetischen Hintergrund von Kulturrosen eingekreuzt. Der Chromosomensatz einer resistenten diploiden Donorlinie wurde durch eine Colchizinbehandlung verdoppelt und der daraus resultierende tetraploide Genotyp mit einer tetraploiden Teehybride gekreuzt. Die daraus hervorgehende resistente Hybride 91/100-5 wurde in der nchsten Generation mit einer Floribunda Gartenrose gekreuzt und die Nachkommenschaft auf Sternrutauresistenz geprft. Der resistente Anteil dieser Nachkommenschaft wurde dann mit AFLP-Markern untersucht um Individuen mit einem mglichst kleinen Anteil des Donorgenoms zu identifizieren. Dieser Genomanteil spaltet in der Nachkommenschaft von 32 % bis 84 % auf. Der Genotyp mit dem geringsten Anteil des Donorgenoms wurde zum Floribunda-Elter und zum Teehybriden-Groelter rckgekreuzt und die Analysen auf Sternrutauresistenz wiederholt. Unter den resistenten Nachkommen spaltet der Anteil des Donorgenoms von 12,3 % bis 32 % auf. Paralleluntersuchungen morphologischer Marker in der BC1 zeigen, dass molekulare Marker morphologischen Bonituren zur Bestimmung des Anteils des Donorgenoms berlegen sind.
24126787|Tipburn is a physiological leaf disorder that reduces the quality of a cut flower production of Eustoma in the greenhouse. The disorder may be affected by environmental factors, and in several experiments we have studied if relative air humidity (RH), daily lighting period, photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD), and calcium (Ca) fertilization affect the incidence of tipburn and Ca content of the leaves. Constant high RH or a few hours of high RH at night caused a higher incidence of tipburn than a low RH. High PPFD or a long lighting period caused tipburn only at high RH. Incidence and severity of tipburn differed in the cultivars tested. The onset of tipburn symptom appeared in the young developing leaves from one to two weeks before until after visible flower bud development. Plants that took longer time to flower and gained high shoot biomass also had a higher incidence of tipburn than those flowering early and with a low shoot biomass. There was always less Ca in leaf tips with tipburn than in those without, and the threshold level for visible symptoms seemed to be 3.5 mg g-1 leaf dry weight. High Ca concentrations in the nutrient solution increased the Ca content in the whole leaf, but had little or no effect on incidence of tipburn. In conclusion, tipburn in Eustoma was an effect of constant high RH, high RH at night, or high dry matter accumulation per plant. These factors influenced the translocation of Ca to the leaf tips. Spitzenbrune ist eine physiologische Blattkrankheit, die die Qualitt der im Gewchshaus produzierten Schnittblumen von Eustoma vermindert. Die Strung scheint durch Umweltfaktoren verursacht zu sein. In zahlreichen Experimenten wurde hier untersucht, ob die relative Luftfeuchte (RH), die tgliche Belichtungsdauer, die Photonenflussdichte (PPFD) und die Calciumdngung (Ca) das Auftreten von Spitzendrre und den Ca-Gehalt der Bltter beeinflusst. Konstant hohe RH oder hohe RH whrend einiger Nachtstunden fhrte hufiger zu Spitzendrre. Eine hohe PPFD oder eine lange Belichtungsdauer fhrte nur bei hoher RH zu Spitzendrre. Auftreten und Schwere des Befalls variierten bei den untersuchten Sorten. Die ersten Symptome der Spitzendrre traten in der Phase 12 Wochen vor bis nach Sichtbarwerden der Knospen auf. Bei Pflanzen, die spter zur Blte kamen und mehr Sprossbiomasse entwickelten, trat hufiger Spitzendrre auf als bei frhblhenden mit geringerer Sprossmasse. Pflanzen mit Spitzendrre wiesen immer weniger Ca in den Blattspitzen auf als Pflanzen ohne Symptome. Der Schwellenwert fr sichtbare Symptome scheint bei 3.5 mg g-1 Blatttrockengewicht zu liegen. Hohe Ca-Konzentrationen in der Nhrlsung erhhte den Ca-Gehalt im ganzen Blatt, hatte aber wenig oder keinen Einfluss auf das Auftreten der Spitzendrre. Zusammenfassend kann gesagt werden,, dass Spitzendrre an Eustoma eine Folge von konstant hoher RH, hoher RH whrend der Nacht oder hohem Trockenmassenaufbau pro Pflanze war. Diese Faktoren beeinflussten den Transport des Ca in die Blattspitzen.
24126363|We developed 12 new sequence characterized markers from Begonia  tuberhybrida Voss. Total of 37 alleles ranged from two to six with expected heterozygosity HE=0.52, observed heterozygosity HO=0.58, and probability of identity PI=0.31, in average per a locus. Probability of identity combined over all 12 loci was PI=0.03. Four out of 12 loci expressed significant departures from HWE. Cross-species transferability was evaluated on the panel of 15 botanical species of Begonia. Total of 25.3 % cross-species amplification indicated rather low transferability of markers from B.  tuberhybrida to other Begonia species, which confirms the requirement of species-specific approach to development of Begonia markers.
24126294|The effect of increasing concentrations of NaCl in nutrient solution on the antioxidant capacity and other fruit quality attributes of raspberry (Rubus idaeus L.) was investigated. The plants were grown in perlite under protected cultivation and at pink fruit stage were supplied with Hoagland nutrient solution supplemented with 0, 10, 20, 30 and 60 mM NaCl for a period of 10 days, following another 10 d without the addition of NaCl. During application of NaCl, the antioxidant capacity, vitamin C content, total phenolics, soluble solids concentration, titratable acidity and dry matter content of fruits increased but the increase was not proportional to the salt concentration in the solution. During the post-application period these characteristics were reduced to the level measured in the non-saliniszed plants except for ascorbic acid content and total phenolics, which remained at significantly higher levels. Also antioxidant capacity was only reduced at the end of the post application period. The anthocyanin content was not influenced by the salinity treatments. Results suggest that salinity, especially at low levels, may enhance the production of antioxidant substances in raspberry fruits and therefore their potential health benefits.
24126356|One of the main objectives of using plastic mulch is to increase soil temperature. However, under high temperature conditions some plastic mulches warm the soil to temperatures that might be harmful to plant growth. A 2-year study was carried out in northern Hungary (Gdll) to determine the optimal colour of the plastic mulch for sweet pepper under specific, unsettled climatic circumstances, in some years with high temperature conditions. The increase of soil temperature caused by certain mulches was the same in both years. In case of light, coloured mulches (clear, violet, light green) the soil temperature was 2.52.9 C higher than in case of the un-mulched control. The dark coloured mulches (black, dark green, red) caused 1.42.1 C soil temperature increase compared to the un-mulched control. The rate of soil temperature values optimal for sweet pepper (between 20 and 30 C) was the highest in case of dark coloured mulches. Due to the warmer weather in 2003 the soil warmed up under the clear and violet mulches extremely, which had a harmful effect on vegetative growth and yield. According to the higher soil temperatures mulched treatments produced higher yields than the un-mulched treatment except the clear mulch in 2003. The use of dark coloured mulches is the safest solution in the examined region because even in case of high air temperature and solar radiation the soil does not warm to a harmful degree. Eine der wichtigsten Ziele der Anwendung von Mulchfolien ist die Erhhung der Bodentemperatur. Bei einer hohen Lufttemperatur und Sonneneinstrahlung erwrmen einige Mulchfolien den Boden sogar in dem Mae, dass das Wachstum der Pflanzen schon negativ beeinflusst werden kann. Ein zweijhriger Versuch wurde in Nordungarn durchgefhrt, um die optimale Farbe der Mulchfolie fr Gemsepaprika in einem Gebiet mit spezifischen, wechselhaften Klimaverhltnissen, in einigen Jahren mit besonders hohen Lufttemperaturen und starker Sonneneinstrahlung zu bestimmen. Die verwendeten Mulchfolien erwrmten den Boden in beiden Jahren in gleichem Masse. Bei den hellen (durchsichtigen, lila, hellgrnen) Mulchfolien war die Bodentemperatur 2,52,9 C hher als bei der unbedeckten Kontrollgruppe. Die dunkelfarbigen (schwarzen, dunkelgrnen, roten) Mulchfolien fhrten zu einer Steigerung der Bodentemperatur von 1,42,1 C im Vergleich zu der unbedeckten Kontrollbehandlung. Die Hufigkeit der fr den Gemsepaprika optimalen Bodentemperaturwerte (zwischen 20 und 30 C) war bei den dunkelfarbigen Mulchfolien am grten. In dem wrmeren Jahr 2003 erwrmte sich der Boden unter den durchsichtigen und den lila Mulchfolien zu sehr, was schon eine negative Wirkung auf das Wachstum und den Ertrag der Pflanzen hatte. Wegen der hheren Bodentemperatur wiesen die bedeckten Behandlungen hhere Ertrge auf als die unbedeckten, die durchsichtige Mulchfolie ausgenommen. Aufgrund unserer Ergebnisse ist in dem untersuchten Gebiet die Verwendung von dunkelfarbigen Mulchfolien am sichersten, weil sich unter ihnen der Boden bei einer hohen Lufttemperatur und starker Sonneneinstrahlung nicht in schdlichem Masse erwrmt.
24126627|In this study the influence of prohexadione-Calcium (Pro-Ca) treatment on peel colour development and polyphenol metabolism of apples during advanced maturity was investigated. Apple trees were treated 3 weeks before technological maturity. Changes in the content of hydroxycinnamic acids, dihydrochalcones, flavonols, flavanols and anthocyanins were monitored six times during the advanced maturation until technological maturity of the fruits. To evaluate the effect of Pro-Ca on the coloration of apples, the changes in the chromaticy values a*, h and the lightness coefficient L* were monitored. The parameters showed a significant difference in the intensity of red coloration between the treated and untreated apples. The application of Pro-Ca led to a decrease in the enzyme activities of the 2-oxoglutarate dependent dioxygenases flavanone-3-hydroxylase (FHT) and flavonol synthase (FLS), and the flavonoid pathway was negatively affected in general. Concomitantly, the concentrations of flavonols, anthocyanins and dihydrochalcones in the peel of treated apples decreased, whereas the contents of total phenolic compounds and hydroxycinnamic acids increased. Flavanol contents, however, remained unchanged. In apple pulp, slightly higher concentrations of all phenolic compounds were measured in the treated apples compared to the control on the majority of sampling dates. The results indicate that Pro-Ca modulates the polyphenol spectrum resulting in a pronounced decrease of red coloration during advanced maturation of apples. Pro-Ca therefore to some extent exhibits the potential to avoid undesired red coloration of apple fruit.
24126521|The effect of CO2 concentration on the carbon dioxide exchange rate (CER) was studied in small plant stands of cucumber for 12 hours a day-1 in three experiments (Exp.) conducted in summer. A photon flux density (PFD) of 300 mol m-2 s-1 of supplementary light was provided in addition to daylight, except for during the middle of the day (12.0017.00). The photoperiod was 20 hours per day-1 (02.0022.00). In Exp. 1, an increase in CO2 concentration from 380 to 800 mol mol-1 from 08.00 until 20.00 increased CER by about 30 % during the period, irrespective of the PFD. In Exp. 2, a decrease in CO2 concentration from 380 to 210 mol mol-1 during the same period reduced the CER by 2036 %, with an increasingly negative effect towards the end of the period. Measured at the same CO2 concentration during the first hours of the photoperiod (02.0008.00) and at end of the photoperiod (20.0022.00), the CER was the same in both plant stands in both experiments. In Exp. 3, an increase in the CO2 concentration from 800 to 1200 mol mol-1 during the same 12-hour period increased CER much more early in the period (28 %) than late in the period (7 %). Measured at the same CO2 concentration, the CER of the 1200 mol mol-1 exposed plants was 12 % lower at end of the photoperiod (20.0022.00) compared with the control plants, but the same during the first part of the photoperiod (02.0008.00). CER increased with increasing PFD in all three experiments. In a fourth experiment, CER was measured at three different temperatures throughout the day in three different plant stands. Supplementary light (300 mol m-2 s-1 PFD) was provided for 20 hours per day-1. When 800 mol mol-1 CO2 was combined with moderate PFD levels (about 300 mol m-2 s-1), the CER was the same at 25 and 30 C, decreasing at 35 C. At a high PFD level (about 750 mol m-2 s-1) and intermediate CO2 level (500 mol mol-1), the CER was the same irrespective of temperature. When the CO2 concentration decreased to 300 mol mol-1, the CER decreased with increasing temperature.
24126148|Postharvest quality of Eustoma grandiflorum (Raf.) Shinn. was investigated after growing plants at different photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD), lighting periods, supplements of lime to the peat medium and different levels of boron fertilization. The plants were harvested at three open flowers and were placed in glass bottles with 500 ml vase solution of the desired preservatives under the following conditions: 21 C, 45 % relative humidity (RH) and 12-h photoperiod with a PPFD of 15 mol m-2 s-1 provided by white fluorescent tubes. Wilted flowers, leaves and buds were recorded every day and postharvest life was evaluated. In general, an increase in preharvest PPFD level increased the vase life. In our first experiment, the plants grown with a 20-h lighting period under a low PPFD (60 pmol m-2 s-1) with high RH (90 %) in the canopy showed the shorter vase life than those grown under a high light level (240 mol m-2 s-1) and low RH (70 %). In the second experiment, a few hours of high Rid at the canopy level during night with a 16-h lighting period and a PPFD of 240 mol m-2 s-1 resulted in a shorter vase life than 24-h and constant low RH. When temperature and RH were better controlled in a third experiment under a PPFD of 105 mol m-2 s-1, the vase life was slightly longer in stems from 16-h than from 24-h lighting period. Compared to their long vase life (26 to 28 days), the differences (24 days), however, must be regarded as small, and we therefore suggest that there is no adverse effect of 24-h lighting on vase life. Vase life was only affected when the commercial preservative Chrysal Clear (CC) or sucrose with 8-hydroxyquinoline sulphate (HQS) was used in the vase solution, and not when either sucrose or HQS was compared with the water control (reverse osmosis water). These results suggest that high PPFD, long lighting period, low RH during the growing period and use of sugar combined with HQS in the vase solution, are all important factors for prolonging the vase life of Eustoma. Die Nacherntequalitt von Eustoma grandiflorum (Raf.) Shinn. wurde an Pflanzen untersucht, die zuvor bei unterschiedlichen Photonenflussdichten (PPFD), Belichtungszeiten, Zugaben von Kalk zum Torfsubstrat und unterschiedlichen Bordngestufen kultiviert worden waren. Die Pflanzen wurden geerntet, sobald drei Blten geffnet waren und in 500 ml Glasflaschen mit Wasser, dem das jeweilige Haltbarkeitsmittel zugefgt wurde, bei 21 C, 45 % relativer Feuchte (RH) und 12-h Licht mit einer PPFD von 15 mol m-2 s-1 aus weien Leuchtstoffrhren, aufgestellt. Welke Blten, Bltter und Knospen wurden jeden Tag erfasst und die Haltbarkeit ermittelt. Im Allgemeinen verlngerte eine hhere PPFD die Haltbarkeit. Im ersten Versuch, wiesen die Pflanzen, die im 20-Stunden-Tag mit geringer PPFD (60 mol m-2 s-1) und hoher RH (90 %) im Blattbereich kultiviert wurden, eine geringere Haltbarkeit auf als jene, deren Kultur bei Starklicht (240 mol m-2 s-1) und geringerer RH (70 %) durchgefhrt wurde. Im zweiten Versuch fhrten wenige Nachtstunden mit hoher RH im Blattbereich in Verbindung mit einer 16-h-Belichtungsdauer und einer PPFD von 240 mol m-2 s-1 zu geringerer Haltbarkeit als 24-h Licht und konstant geringer RH. Als Temperatur und RH im dritten Versuch besser kontrolliert wurden, war die Haltbarkeit bei einer PPFD von 105 mol m-2 s-1 nach einem 16-h Tag besser als nach einem 24-h Tag. Bezogen auf die lange Haltbarkeit (26 bis 28 Tage) muss eine Verlngerung um 24 Tage allerdings als gering angesehen werden, so dass wir vorschlagen, nicht von einer negativen Wirkung des 24-Stunden-Tages auf die Haltbarkeit zu sprechen. Das Aufkalken des Torfsubstrats oder die Dngung mit Bor hatte keine signifikante Wirkung auf die Haltbarkeit. Die Haltbarkeit wurde nur beeinflusst, wenn das Handelsprodukt Chrysal Clear (CC) oder Saccharose in Kombination mit 8-Hydroxyquinolinsulfat (HQS) fr das Vasenwasser verwendet wurden. Bei alleiniger Verwendung von Saccharose oder HQS wurden im Vergleich zur Kontrolle (Umkehrosmosewasser) keine Unterschiede sichtbar. Die gefundenen Ergebnisse zeigen, dass sowohl hohe PPFD, lange Belichtungszeiten, geringe RH in der Wachstumsphase als auch die Verwendung von Saccharose in Kombination mit HQS im Vasenwasser wichtige Faktoren zur Verlngerung der Haltbarkeit von Eustoma sind.
24126453|The role of ethylene on ranunculus cut flower senescence was investigated. Ten Ranunculus asiaticus cultivars ('Pluto', 'Juny', 'Shangai', 'Auriga', 'Bianco2', 'Ken', 'Dido', 'Lul', 'Saigon' and 'Green') were treated with 2 mM silver thiosulfate (STS), 4 mM amino-oxyacetic acid (AOA), and 377 nL L-1 1-methylcyclopropene (1-MCP, Ethylbloc) for 14 h and with 8 L L-1 ethylene for both 14 and 72 h. Evaluation of postharvest performance was based on: visual check for symptoms of senescence alteration (VS), stem fresh weight (FW), petal colour, ethylene production, and leaf chlorophyll content. Results showed genotype differences for all parameters. Senescence was usually reached about 13 d after the beginning of the experiment. In untreated flowers, 'Green' was the longest-lived (16.2 d) and 'Lul' the shortest-lived (11.1 d). Statistical analysis showed an interaction between cultivar and treatment. In general, AOA and STS treated flowers lasted more than the control. These molecules are inhibitors of ethylene biosynthesis or ethylene action respectively. However, they can also act as antibacterial agents. More in detail, AOA extended the longevity in four out of ten cultivars ('Lul', 'Pluto', 'Bianco2' and 'Green') and STS in two ('Pluto' and 'Bianco2'). Exogenous ethylene application did not negatively affect any of the investigated cultivars. Overall it can be concluded that the new ranunculus cultivars tested are ethylene insensitive. Therefore special precautions against exposure to ethylene are not needed.
24127090|In the Tyrrhenian coastal area, frequent late frosts have occurred during the last ten years. The most severe event happened in 2003, causing a strong reduction in yield, above all in stone fruit species. However, several apricot selections, from different breeding sources, had a considerable yield, as a consequence of high flower and/or young fruit survival. The aim of this research was to evaluate the degree of tolerance to spring frost of ten selections and their own parents. During three subsequent years, the frost sensitivity of flower buds at dormant and swelling phenological stages was determined using the Phenolic Compound Leakage (PCL) test after an artificial frost treatment (-4 C). When this temperature was applied to flower buds at the dormant stage did not cause significant injuries, as indicated by the low PCL values. At the pre-flowering stages a significant increase in PCL was observed in most genotypes. On the basis of different levels of PCL, the genotypes were classified into three groups in relation to their frost sensitivity: i) very frost-tolerant; ii) frost-tolerant and iii) frost-sensitive. Within the very frost-tolerant group, the selections 7C 20/3, 11/48/7 and 11/19/2, were the best genotypes confirming a good yield performance recorded after the severe spring frost of 2003.
24126630|This study was carried out searching for alternative substrates to traditional peat based on river waste and Sphagnum and Carex peat from Argentinean peatlands and used to grow Impatiens waUerana bedding plant. The aim of this study was i) to characterize physical and chemical effects from seven growing media on I. wallerana plants grown under different fertilization rates and ii) to describe the physiological mechanisms in plants, involved in the use of such substrates. Particle stability was lower for the six alternative substrates compared to the Canadian peat-base control substrate. However, with a high fertilization dose it is possible to reach non significant differences in plant growth compared to the control substrate. It is suggested, for future research, that nitrogen signalling associated to cytokinin synthesis by roots is involved.
24126352|Phenylpropanoids are involved in natural defence reactions of apple (Malus domestica) against various diseases. An induced phenylpropanoid biosynthesis prior to pathogen attack may, therefore, support resistance mechanisms. In two model systems, the induction of phenylpropanoid biosynthesis was investigated under different light and carbohydrate conditions and after abiotic stressor treatment by measuring the activity of the key enzyme phenylalanine ammonia lyase and by estimating the accumulation of chlorogenic acid and flavan 3-ols. It could be demonstrated that Milsana Tee, Mycosan, lime sulphure, Triton-X-100 and 2,6-dichloroisonicotinic acid (INA) may act as elicitors of phenylpropanoid biosynthesis and are, therefore, candidates for resistance induction in apple. Phenylpropanoide sind beteiligt an natrlichen Abwehrreaktionen des Apfels (Malus domestica) gegen verschiedene Pathogene. Eine Induktion der Phenylpropanoidbiosynthese vor Infektionen knnte deshalb die Resistenzreaktionen untersttzen. In Modellsystemen wurden potentielle Induktoren auf Apfelbltter appliziert und ihr Effekt auf die Aktivitt des Schlsselenzyms Phenylalaninammonium-Lyase gemessen sowie auf die Akkumulation der Chlorogensure und Flavan 3-ole. Dabei wurden auch Licht und Kohlenhydratversorgung variiert. Es konnte gezeigt werden, dass Milsana Tee, Mycosan, Netzschwefel, Triton-X-100 und 2,6-Dichloroisonicotinsure (INA) als Elicitoren des Phenylpropanoidstoffwechsles agieren knnen und damit als Resistenzinduktoren in Frage kommen.
24126342|Knowledge about pest-host plant relationships is important for effective pest control in greenhouse crop production. Mathematical models may help to qualify and quantify these relationships and may therefore be used as prediction tools in decision support systems. In the current study, population dynamics of the polyphagous pest Frankliniella occidentals (Western Flower Thrips) were investigated on greenhouse grown chrysanthemum and a dynamic prediction model was established. Previously published data were used to simulate thrips development. Thrips population growth was mainly dependent on temperature, population density and food availability. The damaged leaf area, caused by the pest infestation, was simulated separately. Greenhouse experiments were conducted at three different temperatures to be able to compare different plant and population growth patterns. Thrips samples were taken during the whole cultivation period and Larvae and adult thrips were summarized as pest individuals in the population. The model fitted the data well during the early population growth phase but underestimated population decay, due to the lack of migrations possibilities (cage experiments), at high temperatures.
24126508|The selection of appropriate rootstock plays an important role in designing a new orchard or in renewing an old one. The identification of rootstocks that cope well in replant soil is therefore necessary to maintain similar production capacity and fruit quality of peach orchards. We have evaluated ten peach rootstocks planted in virgin and replant soil by monitoring tree vigour, yield efficiency, effect on fruit maturity and quality parameters, through two growing seasons. Maturation was affected by rootstock, and Julior appeared to delay fruit maturity. All rootstocks produced higher quality fruit in virgin soil, which was reflected in higher contents of sugars compared to replant soil. Barrier 1, GF 677 and peach seedlings adapted best to virgin soil conditions. For replant conditions, Adesoto, Tetra and Penta rootstocks showed the greatest potential.
24126224|The objective of this research was to determine the suitability of river waste as an amendment for low quality peat in container growth media. Physical and chemical properties of the river waste and Argentinean peat were determined, and the ability of the media to support Gypsophila muralis plant growth was evaluated. Once river waste was added to the Argentinean peat, total porosity and dry weight increased. The best combination of different amounts of the components was also determined.
24126869|The use of transplants is the most reliable method to ensure adequate crop establishment of commercial plantings of most ornamental bedding crops; however, in plants grown in small pots, root growth restrictions often occur. The aim of this work was to determine the dry weight accumulation processes involved in the root restriction generated by a decrease in plug cell volume under the hypothesis that cytokinins synthesized by roots are part of the mechanism of Impatiens walleriana aerial biomass accumulation which can be partially overriding by an early BAP spray during the propagation stage in plug trays. Our results showed that I. walleriana aerial biomass productivity is related to root dry weight; the higher total dry weight of the controls grown in 50 plug cell trays is related to higher relative growth rate (RGR) as a result of an increase in net assimilation rate (NAR) and leaf area ratio (LAR). On the other hand, the smaller cell volume the higher photosynthate partitioning to roots. I. walleriana dry weight accumulation and photosynthate partitioning were changed in response to different BAP sprays doses (5 to 200 mg L-1) and application stages, but the magnitude of the changes were associated to the cell volume too.
24126208|A 2-year study was carried out in the Vrana Valley in the Mediterranean part of Croatia to evaluate the effects of application of different mulching materials (black polyethylene film, clear photodegradable polyethylene film and paper biodegradable cellulose mulch) and irrigation systems (drip and micro irrigation) in watermelon (Citrullus lanatus L.) cultivation. Mean daily soil temperatures were converted to heat units (HU) on each treatment and the research confirmed that mulching of soil with polyethylene materials raises the soil temperature. Early in the season, during the first five weeks of watermelon growth soil mulched with clear film was the warmest, its temperature being significandy higher than in other treatments. Mulching with polyethylene materials enabled an earlier harvest compared to the control and paper, which was naturally due to more rapid initial plant growth. The highest watermelon yields were achieved on black film and drip irrigation (104.5 tons per hectare in 1995 and 79 tons per hectare in 1996). Clear film held its mulching function during first five weeks of the growing season in both years. Paper reduced soil temperature that resulted in lower soil temperature, slower plant growth and later harvest in comparison with polyethylene mulch treatments. Regarding the irrigation system applied, the higher yields were achieved with drip irrigation in both trial years. Die zweijhrige Untersuchung wurde im Vrana-Tal im kroatischen Mittelmeerraum zum Zweck der Auswertung von Aus- und Nachwirkungen der Verwendung von verschiedenen Mulchmaterialien (schwarzer Polyethylenfilm, lichtabbaubare Polyethylen-Klarsichtsfolte, biologisch abbaubarer Zellstoffmulch) und Bewsserungssystemen (Trpfchen- und Mikrobewsserung) beim Anbau von Wassermelonen (Citrullus lanatus L.) durchgefhrt. Die Bodentemperaturen wurden zu Tagesmittelwerten verdichtet. Diese wurden in Wrmeeinheiten (HU) umgerechnet, wobei die Basistemperatur 12.8 C betrug. Whrend der ersten fnf Wochen der Kultur erwies sich der mit Klarsichtsfolie gemulchte Boden als der wrmste; seine Temperatur war wesentlich hher als bei den anderen Verfahren. Die Bodenbedeckung mit Polyethylen-Kunststoffen erbrachte im Vergleich zum Kontroll- verfahren und zur Papiermulch eine frhere Ernte, was natrlich die Folge eines schnelleren initialen Pflanzenwachstums war. Die hchsten Wassermelonenertrge wurden bei Verwerdung von schwarzer Polyethylenfolie und bei Trpfchenbewsserung (104.5 t ha-1 im Jahre 1995 sowie 79 t ha-1 im Jahre 1996) erzielt. Die Polyethylen-Klarsichtsfolie behielt whrend beider Versuchsjahre ihre Mulchfunktion. Durch den Einsatz von Zellulosemulch (Papier) wurde die Bodentemperatur im Vergleich zu den Varianten erniedrigt, wodurch das Wachstum verlangsamt und der Erntebeginn verzgert wurde. Im Hinblick auf das angewendete Bewsserungssystem wurden durch Trpfchenbewsserung in beiden Versuchsjahren hhere Ertrge erzielt.
24126888|The 'Abate Fetel' pear is a clear example of a premium fruit cultivar that requires a consistently high quality level. This research focused on the effects of key variables of fruit industry decision-making, including agronomic options (harvest date), commercial value (fruit diameter) and marketing (time of commercial distribution). The analysis was conducted using a combination of instrumental measures, trained panel evaluations and consumer acceptance tests. Our results encourage planning consumer tests to support quality research.
24126312|Strawberry growth in Northern Europe is limited by a combination of drought, low temperatures, spring and winter frosts, the latter particularly without snow cover, resulting in a short vegetation period. Hence, the influence of temperature sums, cultivars, and blossom weevil Anthonomus rubi on fruit mass and yield were examined during 19992003 in Estonia. Strawberry cv. 'Korona' required the lowest temperature sum (>10 C) for flowering and cv. 'Kent' for ripening out of the four cultivars tested, i.e. 'Senga Sengana', 'Kent', 'Korona' and 'Polka', while cv. 'Polka' withstood extreme conditions like drought, high temperature and spring frosts with the retention of a good fruit yield. Temperature sums were found a suitable approach to describe the ecophysiological adaptation of strawberry plants to the harsh climate in Northern Europe. Wachstum und Ertrag von Erdbeeren in Nordeuropa werden durch geringe Temperaturen wie Spt- und Winterfrste  vor allem in Zeiten ohne Schneeauflage  und durch kurze Vegetationszeiten begrenzt. Daher sollte der Einfluss von Temperatursummen ber 10 C auf Wachstum und Fruchtertrag in Abhngigkeit von Sorte und Bltenbildung und dem Erdbeerbltenstecher Anthonomus rubi in einem fnfjhrigen Feldversuch in Estland untersucht werden. Von den vier untersuchten Sorten  einschlielich 'Senga Sengana' als Kontrolle  bentigte 'Korona' zum Blhen und 'Kent' zur Fruchtreife die geringste Temperatursumme. Von den vier Erdbeersorten war 'Polka' am wenigsten anfllig gegenber Trockenheit und Temperaturextremen wie Frsten. Temperatursummen erwiesen sich als geeignetes Mittel zur Ermitdung der kophysiologischen Anpassungsmglichkeiten einer Erdbeersorte an die harten Anbaubedingungen Nordeuropas.
24126309|Changes in the percentage and time of germination at various temperatures (15, 25, 35 C) and ABA (abscisic acid) content of pepper seeds harvested at 50, 60, 70 and 80 DAA (days after an thesis) were studied during growing seasons in 2001 and 2002. Seed dry mass ranged from 4.9 to 5.2 mg per seed in 2001, and from 4.7 to 5.0 mg per seed in 2002. However, seeds harvested at 70 DAA not only had maximum germination percentages, but also showed the lowest mean germination time for all three temperatures in both years. Delayed harvest (80 DAA) decreased germination percentages as a result of stress, and promoted viviparous germination in the mother plant. ABA content of the seeds increased gradually up to maturity, with values of 226 ng g-1 fresh weight (ng g-1 FW) at 70 DAA in 2001, and 203 ng g-1 FW at 60 DAA in 2002. It declined to a level between 85 and 90 ng g-1 FW in the final harvest of the both years. Germination at stressful temperatures and ABA contents of the pepper seeds with respect to seed development are discussed. Whrend der Vegetationsperioden 2001 und 2002 wurden die nderungen der Keimrate und der Keimdauer bei unterschiedlichen Temperaturen (15, 25, 35 C) sowie der ABA- (Abscisinsure) Gehalt von Paprikasaatgut, das 50, 60, 70 und 80 DAA (Tage nach der Anthese) geerntet worden war, untersucht. 2001 betrug die Samentrockenmasse 4.95.2 mg und 2002 4.75.0 mg pro Samen. In beiden Jahren wies das 70 DAA geerntete Saatgut bei allen drei Temperaturen die hchste Keimrate und die geringste durchschnittliche Keimdauer auf. Die sptere Ernte (80 DAA) reduzierte die Keimrate in Folge von Stress und frderte vivipare Keimung an der Mutterpflanze. Der ABA-Gehalt der Samen stieg bis zur Reife stufenweise an mit Werten, die 2001 226 ng g-1 Frischgewicht ( ng g-1 FW) bei 70 DAA und 2002 203 ng g-1 FW bei 60 DAA betrugen. Zum Zeitpunkt der letzten Ernte sank er in beiden Jahren auf einen Wert von 8590 ng g-1 FW ab. Die Keimung bei Stresstemperaturen und der ABA-Gehalt von Paprikasaatgut wird in Zusammenhang mit der Samenentwicklung wird diskutiert.
24126161|The response of in vitro grown apple plantlets onto the treatment with the growth retardant prohexadione-Ca is demonstrated with regards to their secondary metabolism and under the influence of N nutrition. Reported prohexadione-Ca induced changes of the flavonoid composition were the formation of the uncommon 3-deoxycatechin luteoliflavan, a decrease of catechins, procyanidins and flavonols, which was also observed in our experiments on 'Royal Gala' and 'Golden Delicious'. The extent of effects, however, was markedly modified by N-nutrition of the plantlets. In general, high N-nutrition reduces the amount of total phenolic compounds in apple leaves whereas low N supply favours the accumulation of flavonoids and the formation of resistance related compounds after prohexadione-Ca treatment. Die Vernderungen des Sekundrstoffwechsel von in vitro-kultivierten Apfel-Sprosskulturen nach Behandlung mit dem Wachstumsregulator Prohexadion-Ca und unter dem Einfluss der N-Ernhrung werden demonstriert. Erwartete Effekte bezglich der Flavonoidgehalte waren die Bildung des fr den Apfel ungewhnlichen 3-Deoxycatechins Luteoliflavan sowie eine Reduktion der Konzentrationen von Catechinen, Procyanidinen und Flavonolen, die in den vorgestellten Experimenten an 'Royal Gala' und 'Golden Delicious' auch beobachtet wurden. Das Ausma der Effekte wurde aber stark durch die N-Ernhrung modifiziert. Im Allgemeinen reduziert hohe N-Versorgung die Konzentration der phenolischen Verbindungen insgesamt, wohingegen eine mavolle N-Ernhrung die Akkumulation von Flavonoiden begnstigt und auch die Bildung der durch Prohexadion-Ca-Behandlung induzierten Verbindungen, die mit Resistenzreaktionen korrelieren, untersttzt.
24126389|The genus Campanula is composed of over 300 species but only a few of them are used as cut flowers. In order to diversify the production and to exploit local plants with potential ornamental characteristics, ethylene action and three treatments for extending the vase life were evaluated in Campanula barbata L., C. latifolia L., C. rapunculoides L. and C. trachelium L. Cut stems were subjected to the following treatments: 1-methylcyclopropene (1-MCP), reut in tap water at 90 C, Chrysal Clear, or ethylene and compared to one control in tap water. Pre-treatment with 1.14 L L-1 1-MCP, an inhibitor of ethylene action, for 6 h increased the vase life based on visual check for symptoms of senescence alterations, without any visible toxic effects. In particular, in C. barbata the average flower longevity was 4.2 d, twice longer than the other preservative treatments. In this species, 1-MCP treatment preserved more also the petal colour (L*=-1.50, a*=-1.07, b*=4.41), measured by means of a spectrophotometer. However, exogenously applied ethylene did not decrease bellflower vase life and gas chromatography analysis did not detect any endogenous ethylene production. This suggests that Campanula cut flowers are ethylene responsive but more sensitive protocols for studying ethylene action are needed. Considering the different species, C. rapunculoides resulted the most promising bellflower for its intrinsic ornamental and physiological characteristics.
24126283|The response to Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. melonis (F.o.m.) race 1 of 79 Cucumis melo L. genotypes - 56 accessions collected from different parts of Turkey, 5 local cultivars and 18 foreign genotypes - was determined by using pathogenicity tests and RAPD markers (E07 and G17). For pathogenicity tests, at least 15 individuals of each melon genotype were artificially inoculated by either conidia suspension culture or sand culture of F.o.m. race 1. Melon seedlings were evaluated on a 03 scale for the presence of vascular browning two weeks after inoculation with conidia suspension culture resp. four weeks after inoculation with sand culture. The disease incidence on the 79 melon genotypes ranged from 0 to 100 %. Seven melon genotypes were resistant (CU129, CU258, T8, Y9, Y10, Y15, and Y63), three melon genotypes (CU280, CU309, and T1) were heterogeneous, and all the others were susceptible to F.o.m. race 1 based on disease incidence and vascular browning. The success of the E07 marker in detecting susceptible genotypes was higher than that of G17; the mistmatch ratios of E07 and G17 markers were 5.06 and 58.23 %, respectively.
24126478|The study of root growth and development is a difficult branch of research due to the lack of accurate methodologies. All the approaches used until now to study root dynamics involve a profound disruption of the root environment causing approximations that compromise research goals. Before the technique reported here was developed, there were few commercially available software packages able to identify, measure and report root parameters as extensively. The scope of our work was to design software that would generate accurate and comprehensive data sets of root parameters such as number, length, diameter, area, volume, and branch number, angle, and hierarchy. Our aim was to generate accurate data at a lower resolution than the 12 pixels mm-1 (300 dots per inch) currently considered the minimum from several authors. DigiRoot is software for measurement of roots in any digital image format. The effects of resolution, orientation of the roots and method of image acquisition (scanned or photographed) on the software's accuracy were tested using objects of known diameters, lengths and angles. Of the previously mentioned test parameters, the only statistically significant effect was that of image resolution on root diameter. With minimal user interaction, DigiRoot accurately detects and analyzes roots as narrow as one pixel. The accuracy of the software decreases with decreased resolution, however its accuracy is still adequate at 1 pixel mm-1 (26 dpi). DigiRoot is new software available to researchers for the study of digital images of roots requiring a high level of accuracy even at low resolution. The software also provides results on branching hierarchy and angle of branch insertion.
24126272|Micropropagated 'Fuji' apple plants in Hoagland nutrient solution were subjected to water stress at different deficit intensities by regulating the osmotic potential of the solution with PEG-6000. Transport and distribution of 14C-assimilates among organs of previously water-stressed plants were compared with those under a normal water status by feeding leaves with 14CO2. Most 14C-assimilate was exported from the labelled leaves within 48 hours, and there were two peaks of export rate of 14C-assimilate in plants under a normal water status. No matter what deficit intensity was applied to the plants, water stress significantly decreased the export rate of 14C-assimilates from fed leaves, but did not modify the export patterns of 14C-assimilates. About 90 % of the 14C-assimilates exported from the labelled leaves within 48 hours were distributed in the above-ground parts of the plants under a normal water status while from one third to two thirds of the 14C-assimilates were transported from labelled leaves into the roots of the micropropagated plants under water stress depending on the deficit intensity. Moreover, water stress decreased the distribution coefficient (K) of 14C-assimilates in the shoot apex, and increased the Ks of the roots and the phloem of the plants. A lower K of the shoot apex of water stressed trees than that of well-watered ones may result in a decreased growth of shoots. The higher K of the roots of the plants under water stress may signify a stronger sink and also a greater reservoir of carbon assimilates in the roots than those of the plants under normal water situation. It is suggested that the K of the phloem within a short time after feeding the leaves with 14CO2 may only signify the quantity of 14C-assimilates transport to the roots or a temporary reservoir of carbon assimilates in the phloem. Mikrovermehrte und in Hoagland-Nhrlsung kultivierte Apfelpflanzen der Sorte 'Fuji' wurden unterschiedlichen Intensitten von Wasserstress ausgesetzt, wobei der osmotische Druck der Lsung mittels PEG-6000 verndert wurde. Durch die Zufhrung von 14CO2 ber die Bltter, konnte der Transport und die Verteilung der 14C-Assimilate in die Pflanzenteile von Pflanzen unter Wasserstress und Normalbedingungen verglichen werden. Der Groteil der 14C-Assimilate wurde innerhalb von 48 Stunden aus den markierten Blttern exportiert, dabei wies die Exportrate der normal versorgten Pflanzen zwei Peaks auf. Unabhngig vom Grad des Wasserdefizits, war die Exportrate aus den Blttern deutlich reduziert, ohne dabei das Exportmuster der 14C-Assimilate zu verndern. Bei normal versorgten Pflanzen wurden mehr als 90 % der innerhalb von 48 Stunden exportierten 14C-Assimilate in die oberidischen Pflanzenteile verbracht, wohingegen bei wassergestressten Pflanzen in Abhngigkeit vom Grad des Stresses zwischen einem und zwei Drittel der 14C-Assimilate in die Wurzeln transportiert wurde. Auerdem verringert Wasserstress den 14C-Assimilat-Verteilungskoeffizienten (K) in die Sprossspitze und erhht die Ks in die Wurzeln und das Phloem. Der geringere K in die Sprossspitzen bei wassergestressten Pflanzen knnte zu einem geringeren Sprosswachstum fhren. Der grere K in die Wurzeln wiederum knnte bei wassergestressten Pflanzen ein greres Sink und einen greren Kohlenstoffassimilatspeicher in den Wurzeln bewirken. Es scheint naheliegend, dass der K des Phloems zeitnah zur Zufhrung von 14CO2 nur einen Hinweis auf die Hhe des 14C-Assimilattransports in die Wurzeln oder einen zeitlich begrenzten Kohlenstoffassimilatspeicher im Phloem gibt.
24126179|Low-temperature disorders in nectarines (Prunus persica) can be delayed by storage in atmospheres containing elevated CO2; however, this benefit is limited to a few cultivars. The storage of produce at low temperatures itself leads to changes in protein synthesis; therefore, this study examined the applicability of 2-D electrophoresis to assess differences in protein production in cultivars of nectarine that either do ('Arctic Snow') or do not ('Red Gold') respond to elevated CO2 levels during storage. In addition, the effect of harvest maturity and their response to added ethylene was assessed. Fruit of the two cultivars were either ripened immediately after harvest at 20 C before protein extraction or stored in air, air + CO2, air + ethylene or air + CO2 + ethylene then ripened at 20 C before protein extraction. 2-D PAGE showed that the expression of approximately 30 proteins varied among cultivars and treatments. Two proteins showed clear differences in expression in both cultivars between fruit ripened immediately after harvest and those that had been stored. A second set of differences in protein expression was found in fruit of 'Red Gold' only and involved 12 proteins whose expression was either reduced or increased by storage: these proteins did not vary in expression in 'Arctic Snow'. A third set of differences in protein expression was observed in 'Arctic Snow' only in atmospheres containing ethylene. Several proteins were down-regulated by ethylene and this down-regulation was negated by the addition of CO2 to the storage atmosphere. Thus, differences in protein expression can be found between cultivars of nectarines that do or do not respond to the addition of CO2 to the storage atmosphere and in the cultivar that is known to respond to CO2, this gas was able to antagonise protein changes mediated by ethylene. Bei einigen wenigen Nektarinensorten (Prunus persica) knnen Klteschden durch die Zufuhr von CO2 zur Lageratmosphre hinausgezgert werden. Die Lagerung der Produkte bei niedrigen Temperaturen bewirkt allein schon nderungen in der Proteinsynthese. Aus diesem Grund wird hier die Anwendbarkeit der 2-D-Elektrophorese zur Erfassung der Unterschiede in der Proteinsynthese sowohl an Nektarinensorten, die auf die Erhhung des C02-Gehalts whrend der Lagerung reagieren ('Arctic Snow') als auch an solchen, die nicht reagieren ('Red Gold') untersucht. Zustzlich wird die Auswirkung der Reifung der Frchte und ihre Reaktion auf Ethylengaben ermittelt. Die Nachreife bei 20 C vor der Proteinextraktion erfolgte bei Frchten beider Sorten entweder sofort nach der Ernte oder im Anschluss an eine Lagerphase in Normalluft, in Normalluft + CO2, in Normalluft + Ethylen oder in Normalluft + CO2 + Ethylen. Die 2-D PAGE zeigte, dass die Expression von annhernd 30 Proteinen in Abhngigkeit von der Sorte und der Behandlung variierte. Zwei Proteine zeigten in beiden Sorten deutliche Expressionsunterschiede in Abhngigkeit davon, ob sie direkt nach der Ernte oder im Anschluss an eine Lagerphase nachreiften. Eine zweite Gruppe wurde nur bei Frchten von 'Red Gold' gefunden und umfasste 12 Proteine, deren Expression durch die Lagerung entweder verringert oder gesteigert wurde: die Expression dieser Proteine variierte bei 'Arctic Snow' nicht. Eine dritte Gruppe mit unterschiedlicher Proteinexpression wurde nur in Frchten von 'Arctic Snow' beobachtet, die in Atmosphre mit Ethylenzugabe gelagert worden waren. Zahlreiche Proteine wurden durch Ethylen abreguliert und diese Abregulation wurde durch die Zugabe von CO2 zur Lageratmosphre wieder aufgehoben. Folglich knnen Unterschiede in der Proteinexpression zwischen Nektarinensorten, die auf die Zugabe von CO2 zur Lageratmosphre reagieren oder nicht, gefunden werden und bei Sorten, deren vorhandene Reaktion auf CO2 bekannt ist, kann dieses Gas als Antagonist bei Ethylen-verursachten Proteinvernderungen wirken.
24126246|The effects of gibberellic acid (GA3), kinetin, the commercial preparations Promalin, Perlan (mixtures of GA4/7 and benzyladenine) and Novagib (GA4/7), and some of their combinations on fruit shape and quality of 'Red Chief Delicious' apples before and after cold storage were studied. Sprays with the chemicals were done once at petal fall. Determinations of fruit shape, expressed as the height/diameter ratio (H/D), fresh weight, seed number were made at harvest, and flesh firmness and the content in soluble solids, total sugars and L-malic acid were done at harvest and after four months in cold storage. Promalin, Perlan, Novagib+kinetin, kinetin+GA3 and kinetin improved fruit shape, by increasing the H/D ratio, and fruit weight in some cases. Total sugars and L-malic acid content of fruits were higher in all treatments compared with the control, at harvest. After four months in cold storage the content of total sugars increased in all treatments, the increase in the control being three times that of all other treatments. Soluble solids followed a similar pattern of change before and after storage. L-malic acid concentration decreased ten times in all treatments after storage, compared with the initial values at harvest, but remained higher than in the control. GA3 did not affect fruit shape but significantly improved all other quality parameters and the overall storability of apples. Flesh firmness before and after storage and the number of seeds were not affected. It was also shown that kinetin could replace successfully benzyladenine, which may present a potential health hazard.
24126523|The effects of fast neutron irradiation using an Americium-Beryllium source with a flux of 1.5  104 n cm-2 s-1 on the agronomic traits of three varieties of Nigerian pepper  Capsicum annuum var. acuminatum (MN/SH/001), C. annuum var. abbreviatum (MN/AR/002), and C. annuum var. grossum (MN/AT/003)  were studied. Seeds of each variety were irradiated for 0, 30, 60, 90 and 120 min before they were sown  with their respective controls  in order to assess the effects of the different irradiation treatments on the plants. All irradiation periods caused leaf abnormalities such as leaves with reduced size, leaves with invaginated or inverted margins, or with a blunt or bifurcated apex, when compared with control plants. Germination percentage tended to become reduce while there was a pronounced positive trend in plant height, number of leaves/plant, fruits/plant, seeds/fruit, weight, length and width of fruits, by increasing the irradiation period. However, 120 min was the most effective irradiation period to induce viable and useful mutations for yield parameters in pepper.
24126867|Fruit quality and flavour are important targets in all pear breeding programmes. Perceived sweetness is directly influenced by the amount and type of sugar accumulated in fruit. Limited information is available on sugar composition in pear fruit and published studies have been completed using cultivars rather than breeding populations. The objective of this research was to determine the quantitative genetic parameters of sugar content in fruit of interspecific hybrids from families making up a pear breeding population. Glucose, fructose, sucrose and sorbitol contents were measured in mature fruit. Most of the sugars, except for sorbitol, showed genetic variability and a relatively high (i.e., > 0.5) ratio between the estimated additive genetic variance and the total variance. Sorbitol showed a high negative genetic correlation (-0.65) with fructose. It could be suggested that the main product of sorbitol conversion was fructose. Sucrose showed a negative genetic correlation with glucose (-0.37) and fructose (-0.16), which would be expected given that sucrose is metabolised into fructose and glucose. Two parents with 100 % European parentage showed the highest empirical breeding values (eBV)s for fructose and total sugars. The parent with 100 % Asian parentage showed the lowest eBV for sorbitol. The mean percentages of the sugars across the entire population were: glucose 13 %, fructose 59 %, sucrose 8 % and sorbitol 20 %, indicating fructose was the main sugar with sucrose less prominent.
24126489|We investigated the effects of different wavelengths of photosynthetically active radiation generated by blue, green, yellow or red light-emitting diodes (LEDs) (peak wavelength: 470, 525, 590 or 625 nm, respectively) on quality preservation of tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) seedlings during low light irradiation storage. The photosynthetic photon flux (PPF) at the plant canopy level was automatically controlled using a proportional-integral-derivative controller in order to maintain the CO2 exchange rate of seedlings at zero. Nine seedlings were stored for 28 d in a storage case at 100.5 C and greater than 95 % RH. There was no significant difference in seedling dry weight before or after storage under any light irradiation (LI). The mean PPFs required for maintaining the CO2 exchange rate of seedlings at zero under the blue, green, yellow and red LIs for the last 2 weeks of storage were 3.5, 5.6, 5.2 and 4.1 mol m-2 s-1, respectively. Green light may help seedlings preserve their quality better than blue or red light; providing a vigorous and compact appearance with upright morphology and higher visual quality score.
24126145|Six cDNAs encoding expansins were isolated from cultured shoots (MdExp1), the flesh of ripening fruit (MdExp2, MdExp3, MdExp4), and fruit pedicel tissue (MdExp5, MdExp6) of apple (Malus  domestica Borkh.). We report here the expression characteristics of these MdExp genes during fruit ontogeny. MdExp1 was expressed in an up-down-up cycle from full-bloom stage to just before ripening. The expression of MdExp2 and MdExp5 was initiated when cell enlargement was started after the cell proliferation stage; the expression of MdExp5 was limited to the early rapid growth period. The up-down-up cycles were also detected in the transcripts of MdExp3 and MdExp4 throughout both growth stages, but the expression of MdExp3 was increased in the ripening stage. Transcripts of MdExp6 were not detected in any growth stage, but were induced by wounding. These results suggest that apple fruit requires at least five expansin genes during ontogeny, and that MdExp3 is a ripening-related expansin gene. Sechs cDNAs zur Kodierung von Expansinen wurden aus kultivierten Sprossen (MdExp1), dem Fruchtfleisch reifender Frchte (MdExp2, MdExp3, MdExp4) und aus Fruchtstielgewebe (MdExp5, MdExp6) des Apfels (Malus  domestica Borkh.) isoliert. Wir berichten hier ber das Expressionsverhalten dieser MdExp-Gene whrend der Fruchtontogenese. MdExp1 wurde vom Stadium der Vollblte bis kurz vor der Reife in einem Anstieg-Abfall-Anstieg-Zyklus exprimiert. Die Expression von MdExp2 und MdExp5 begann mit dem Zellwachstum im Anschluss an das Zellteilungsstadium; die Expression von MdExp5 war begrenzt auf die erste Schnellwuchsphase. Ein Anstieg-Abfall-Anstieg-Zyklus wurde auch whrend beider Wachstumsphasen bei der Transkription von MdExp3 und MdExp4 beobachtet, doch erhhte sich die Expression von MdExp3 whrend des Reifestadiums. Transkripte von MdExp6 wurden in keiner Wachstumsphase entdeckt, sie wurden jedoch bei Verwundung induziert. Diese Ergebnisse weisen darauf hin, dass bei der Apfelfrucht mindestens fnf Expansingene whrend der Ontogenese erforderlich sind und, dass MdExp3 ein in Beziehung zur Reife stehendes Expansingen ist.
24126786|The use of fresh cut vegetables has continued to increase in salad bars and fast food restaurants. Their storage life is influenced by their continued respiration and the biochemical activity associated with senescence. Enzymatic browning is one of the main causes of quality losses during postharvest storage. The combined use of modified atmosphere packaging and low temperature reduces respiration and delays senescence, thereby extending storage life. The objective of this work was to assess the suitability of a range of polymeric films for modified atmosphere packaging on butterhead, crisphead, latin and leafy lettuce types minimally processed during storage at 4C for 9 days. Multilayered polyolefin RD-106, PD-900 and PD-961EZ films with different gas permeability (oxygen permeability from 3000 to 11500 cm3 m2 24 h, 1 atm at 22.7 C, carbon dioxide permeability from 9800 to 30000 cm3 m2 24 h, 1 atm at 22.7 C) were tested. Phenylalanine ammonia lyase (PAL), polyphenol oxidase (PPO) and peroxidase (POD) activities, and the content of phenolic compounds were measured to relate them to overall visual quality, leaf edge browning and leaf surface browning. The variability in enzymatic activity was affected by both the type of lettuce and the permeability of the packaging material for O2 and CO2. A low chlorogenic acid concentration and the best organoleptic quality was achieved with the packaging material PD 900. The leafy lettuce type had the highest concentration of chlorogenic acid without quality losses by enzymatic browning. Leafy lettuce packed with multilayered polyolefins mantained an acceptable quality for consumption after 9 days of storage, independent on the polymeric film used as packaging material. Die Verwendung von frischgeschnittenem Gemse in Salattheken und Fast Food Restaurants nimmt weiterhin zu. Seine Lagerfhigkeit ist abhngig von der Atmung und den biochemischen Aktivitten in Zusammenhang mit der Seneszenz. Enzymatisch bedingtes Verbrunen ist einer der Hauptgrnde fr Qualittsverlust whrend der Lagerung. Die Kombination von Verpackung in modifizierter Atmosphre und niedrigen Temperaturen reduziert die Atmung und den Alterungsprozess und verlngert so die Lagerfhigkeit. Gegenstand dieser Untersuchung war es zu beurteilen, inwiefern sich eine Reihe von Polymerfolien fr die Verpackung von geringfgig bearbeiteten Kopf-, Blatt- und Pflcksalaten in modifizierter Atmosphre mit anschlieender Lagerung bei 4 C ber 9 Tage, eignen. Die vielschichtige Polyolefinfolien, RD-106, PD-900 und PD-961EZ mit unterschiedlicher Durchlssigkeit (Sauerstoffdurchlssigkeit zwischen 3000 und 11500 cm3 m2 24 h, 1 atm bei 22.7 C, CO2-Durchlssigkeit zwischen 9800 und 30000 cm3 m2 24 h, 1 atm bei 22.7 C) wurden untersucht. Phenylalaninammoniumlyase- (PAL), Polyphenoloxidase- (PPO) und  peroxidase- (POD) Aktivitten und der Gehalt an phenolischen Bestandteilen wurden gemessen und in Beziehung zu den gesamten visuellen Qualittsmerkmalen, sowie Blattrand- und Blattoberflchenverbrunung gestellt. Die Variabilitt der Enzymaktivitt wurde durch den Salattyp und die Durchlssigkeit des Verpackungsmaterials fr O2 und CO2 bedingt Eine geringe Chlorogensurekonzentration und die beste organoleptische Qualitt wurde mit dem Verpackungsmaterial PD 900 erzielt. Die Pflcksalate wiesen die hchsten Chlorogensurekonzentrationen, ohne dass Qualittsverluste durch enzymatisches Verbrunen auftraten. Pflcksalate, die in vielschichtige Polyolefine verpackt wurden, behielten ihre akzeptable Verzehrqualitt auch nach neuntgiger Lagerung.
24126331|Effect of four non-chemical sanitation treatments was evaluated on spring and autumn leaf infection by Venturia inaequalis and on leaf litter degradation in two high-density organic apple orchards (Eperjeske and Debrecen-Jzsa, Hungary) on two moderately scab-susceptible apple cultivars ('Jonathan' and 'Elstar') from 2001 to 2003. The sanitation treatments were: removal of fallen leaves, disc cultivation, shredding, and covering the orchard floor with plastic foils. At both locations and in both years, all treatments significantly (P<0.01) reduced leaf litter density. By mid-April, leaf litter density compared to non-sanitized plots was reduced by 82.888.6 %, 49.757.8 %, 42.249.6 %, and 99.5100 %, in treatments of removal of fallen leaves, disc cultivation, shredding, and covering the orchard floor with plastic foils, respectively. These treatments, in the same order, reduced spur-leaf scab incidence in spring by 42.246.5 %, 7.1 25.7 %, 25.335.7 %, and 55.968.6 %, respectively, compared to non-sanitized plots. Compared to non-sanitized plots, leaf scab incidence in autumn was significantly lower (P<0.05) only in the treatment of covering orchard floor with plastic foils in 2002 and 2003, in which percent reduction of scab was between 16.6 % and 24.9 % and between 19.6 % and 27.3 %, respectively. Applicability of the sanitation treatments in organic apple production is discussed.
24126319|Studies on morpho-physiological characters, contents of total phenols and endogenous hormones in the seedlings of seven polyembryonic mango cultivars, 'Muvandan', 'Vellaikolamban', 'Chandrakiran', 'Kurukan', 'Bappakai', 'Mylepelian' and 'Olour' and monoembryonic cultivar, 'Alphonso' raised under pot culture conditions monitored at 30, 60 and 120 days of growth from transplanting revealed that the seedling vigour of polyembryonic cvs 'Muvandan' and 'Bappakai' and of the monoembryonic cv. 'Alphonso' was high. The cv. 'Vellaikolamban' was least vigorous. The leaf area at 60 days of seedling growth was low in less vigorous cvs 'Kurukan' and 'Vellaikolamban' and high in 'Muvandan'. The leaf water potential was less negative in less vigorous cvs 'Vellaikolamban', 'Kurukan' and 'Chandrakiran'. The total phenol and ABA in the leaves were high in less vigour cvs 'Vellaikolamban' and 'Kurukan' at all seedling growth stages. The leaves of vigorous cvs 'Bappakai' and 'Muvandan' had high cytokinins, t- zeatin riboside and dihydrozeatin zeatin riboside levels at 30, 60 and 120 days and IAA level at 30 and 60 days. Plant height and stem girth were negatively correlated with leaf total phenol and ABA contents. Plant height was positively correlated with leaf water potential and cytokinins (t-zeatin riboside and dihydrozeatin zeatin riboside) content. Thus a higher level of growth inhibitor, ABA and phenols concurrently with lower levels of growth promoters imparted growth restriction of seedlings. It is suggested that the selection of size controlling rootstocks at nursery stage can be made by assessing the leaf water potential, total phenols and/or ABA. Untersuchungen zu morphologisch-physiologischen Eigenschaften, dem Gesamtgehalt an Phenolen und endogenen Hormonen in den Smlingen von sieben mehrkeimigen Mangosorten, 'Muvandan', 'Vellaikolamban', 'Chandrakiran', 'Kurukan', 'Bappakai', 'Mylepelian' und 'Olour', sowie der einkeimigen Sorte 'Alphonso', die in Tpfen kultiviert und 30, 60 und 120 Tage nach der Umsetzung bonitiert wurden, zeigten, dass die Wchsigkeit der mehrkeimigen Sorten 'Muvandan' und 'Bappakai' sowie der einkeimigen Sorte 'Alphonso' gro war. Die Sorte 'Vellaikolamban' war am schwachwchsigsten. 60 Tage nach dem Verpflanzen waren die Blattflchen der schwcherwchsigen Sorten 'Kurukan' und 'Vellaikolamban' am kleinsten und die von 'Muvandan' am grten. Das Wasserpotential der Bltter war bei den schwcherwchsigen 'Vellaikolamban', 'Kurukan' and 'Chandrakiran' weniger stark negativ. Der Gehalt an Gesamtphenolen und ABA in den Blttern war im gesamten Versuchszeitraum bei den schwcherwchsigen Sorten 'Vellaikolamban' und 'Kurukan' am hchsten. Die Bltter der wchsigen Sorten 'Bappakai' und 'Muvandan' hatten nach 30, 60 und 120 Tagen hohe Cytokinin-, t-Zeatinribosid- und Dihydrozeatin Zeatinribosid-Werte und nach 30 und 60 Tagen hohe IAA-Werte. Pflanzenhhe und Stammumfang waren negativ korreliert mit dem Gesamtphenol- und ABA-Gehalt der Bltter. Pflanzenhhe und Wasserpotential der Bltter sowie Cyokinin- (t-Zeatinribosid- und Dihydrozeatin Zeatinribosid-) Gehalt sind positiv korreliert. Folglich fhrt ein hherer Gehalt an Wuchshemmstoffen, ABA und Phenolen in Verbindung mit einem geringeren Gehalt an Wachstumspromotoren zu Wachstumsbeschrnkungen der Smlinge. Es wird vorgeschlagen, die Selektion auf Schwachwchsigkeit im Baumschulstadium durch Bestimmung des Wasserpotentials der Bltter, der Gesamtphenole und/oder ABA durchzufhren.
24126844|Tomato bruising is a major type of postharvest damage that substantially reduces fruit quality and marketability. Bruises show local tissue softening in parallel with textural changes. Among perishable commodities, tomatoes are considerably sensitive to mechanical damage. Impact power and fruit-related properties that affect tomato bruise susceptibility were investigated in this study. A bruise prediction model was constructed for the damage susceptibility of tomato (measured by absorbed energy) using multiple linear regression analyses. Tomatoes were subjected to dynamic loading by means of a pendulum at three levels of impact. Significant effects of acoustic stiffness, temperature, the radius of curvature and some interactions on bruising were obtained at 5 % probability level. It was concluded that increases in temperature during impacts as well as high acoustic stiffness and low radius of curvature of fruit will reduce the absorbed energy and, thus alleviate bruise damage of tomatoes.
24126805|The paper reports the profile of individual organic acids and phenolic content in fresh fruit and jam from three populations of cornelian cherry (Cornus mas L.) wild genotypes originating from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Immediately after harvest, jams were cooked at maximum 80 C from the corresponding fruit. The jam was sampled in five replications at three different storage times for each region: immediately after processing, and then after four and six months of storage, for individual organic acids and phenolics by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The phenolic compounds found in the fresh fruit were also found in the jams  however, in significantly lower amounts in jam. The three most abundant phenolic compounds found in cornelian cherry fruit as well as in the corresponding jams were procyanidin B1, quercetin 3-O-robinobioside and peonidin 3-O-glucoside. Jam contained dramatically lower levels of phenolic compounds compared to fresh fruit. The most stable phenolic compounds were flavonols where the smallest losses were recorded. The levels of flavan 3-ols, hydroxycinnamic acid, flavonols and anthocyanins declined more during jam processing than during storage, with a significant influence of the growing region.
24126812|The preparation of natural bracken (Pteridium aquilinum L. Kuhn) from the field to a compost suitable for acid loving plants is described. Key chemical and physical characteristics of the compost were determined by laboratory assessments of particle size, pH, air filled porosity (AFP), water retention characteristics, nitrogen draw down index (NDI) and basic chemistry. The procedure to ensure the breakdown of Ptaquiloside carcinogens is discussed. The material is naturally N poor, K rich with pH < 5.0, at cutting. During composting, particle size declines but pH naturally rises. Options to retain low pH and improve the water holding capacity are discussed. Nitrogen lock-up is similar to peat, but conductivity is lower, making nutrient management of pot plants easy. Water management is the key to successful use in the nursery. This plant is a highly sustainable resource, regaining biomass if cut in alternate years, growing along the western oceanic areas of Europe, particularly on light acid soils, from Norway to Spain and from Ireland eastward beyond Germany.
24126137|The effectiveness of postharvest hot water (at 53 C for 3 and 6 min; at 48 C for 12 min) and curing treatments (at 53 C for 1 and 6 h; at 48 C for 6 h) on chilling injury, decay and postharvest quality of 'Clementine' mandarins (Citrus reticulata (L.) Osbeck) during a two-month storage at 1 C and subsequently one week of simulated shelf-life at 20 C, was investigated. The fruits were not de-greened, waxed, or treated with any postharvest fungicides before and after storage. Chilling injury and decay were prevented by all hot water and curing treatments. Curing treatment at 53 C for 6 h dramatically reduced decay compared to other treatment and chilling injury were not developed, but this treatment ranked last after 60 days of storage for overall quality. Weight loss, juice yield, total soluble solids, and total soluble solids/acid ratio were higher in cured fruit than in hot water dipped fruit. However, titratable acid, ascorbic acid, and overall quality were lower in cured fruit than control and hot water dipped fruit. There were no differences between heat-treated and control fruit in terms of peel colour. Detrimental effects on quality parameters of mandarins did not occur either in hot water or curing treatments. Overall, it was concluded that pre-storage hot water and curing effectively induce tolerance to chilling injury and they constitute an alternative to chemical treatment for 'Clementine' mandarins without impairing any other quality attributes. Die Wirksamkeit einer Heiwasser- (53 C, 3 und 6 min lang; 48 C, 12 min lang) bzw. einer trockenen Wrmebehandlung (53 C, 1 und 6 h lang; 48 C, 6 h lang) nach der Ernte hinsichtlich Klteschden, Fulnis und Verbrauchsqualitt wurde an Clementinen (Citrus reticulata (L.) Osbeck) untersucht, die anschlieend zwei Monate bei 1 C und zur Simulation der Verkaufssituation eine Woche bei 20 C gelagert wurden. Die Frchte wurden vor und nach der Lagerung weder entgrnt, gewachst noch mit Lagerfungiziden behandelt. Alle Heiwasser- und trockene Wrmebehandlungen verhinderten Klteschden und Fulnis. Im Vergleich zu den brigen Behandlungen verminderte die Wrmebehandlung bei 53 C ber 6 h die Fulnis deutlich und Klteschden blieben aus, doch lag diese Behandlungsmethode nach 60 Tagen Lagerung in der Gesamtqualitt an letzter Stelle. Gewichtsverlust, Saftausbeute, Trockensubstanz und das Trockensubstanz/Sureverhlnis waren bei trockenbehandelten Frchten hher als bei den heiwasserbehandelten. Dagegen waren titrierbare Sure, Ascorbinsure und Gesamtqualitt bei trockenbehandelten Frchten geringer als bei Kontroll- und heiwasserbehandelten Frchten. Hinsichtlich Schalenfarben traten keinerlei Unterschiede zwischen den wrmebehandelten und der unbehandelten Kontrolle auf. Weder bei den Heiwasser- noch bei den Wrme-behandelten Mandarinen wurden nachteilige Effekte auf die Qualittsparameter beobachtet. Zusammenfassend kann gesagt werden, dass eine vor der Lagerung durchgefhrte Heiwasser- oder trockene Wrmebehandlung bei Clementinen eine Khletoleranz induziert und eine Alternative zur chemischen Behandlung darstellt, ohne dass dadurch andere Qualittsmerkmale beeintrchtigt wrden.
24126826|This study examines an irrigation scheduling technique for tomato (Solanum lycopersicum L. 'Starbuck F1') cultivation aimed at avoiding effluent from coir substrate hydroponic system. The technique utilized a frequency domain reflectometry (FDR) sensor that controlled irrigation to preset volumetric water levels. For comparison, a time-clock scheduling was examined. When the volumetric water content in the substrate was controlled at 40 or 50 % by the FDR, there was no leaching of drain water over the entire investigation period. When the volumetric water content was controlled at 60 % by the FDR or timer-set, drainage ratio to the total irrigation was 22 or 38 %, respectively, from 32 to 69 days after transplant (DAT), while from 70 DAT onwards, the 60 % treatment ceased its drainage. The EC level in the substrate in the 40 and 50 % treatments was lower during irrigation-off hours than those during irrigation-on hours, which was opposite to that in the 60 % treatment during 25 to 69 DAT. While there was no significant difference in plant growth among the treatments at 30 DAT, the plant height, fresh weights of leaf and stem, and numbers of leaves at 102 DAT showed significant (P < 0.05) reduction under the 40 and 50 % treatments, compared to that under the 60 % and timer-set treatments. A 24 and 26 % of the total fruit number under the 40 and 50 % treatment, respectively, was affected by blossom-end rot (BER), whereas no BER was observed in the 60 % or timer-set treatment. These results indicate that controlling the volumetric water content of the substrate within a range of 40 and 50 % for the entire growth period was too low during the late spring to summer season. Efficient irrigation scheduling to obtain a drainage-free system during late spring to summer season can be achieved by starting to control the volumetric water content of substrate between 40 and 50 % by the FDR, and then by increasing it between 60 and 70 % with close observations of patterns of the water content and the EC level of the substrate.
24126908|2,4-D is a selective post-emergence broadleaf herbicide that is widely used in numerous agricultural crops, forestry, aquatics, as well as turfgrass systems including athletic fields. While 2,4-D has been routinely applied in numerous commodities worldwide since the 1950's, its use has been questioned for decades due to toxicological concerns. Previous research suggests 2,4-D is not readily dislodged (< 10 % of the applied) from treated turfgrass after application; however, sample collections have typically been conducted in the afternoon when turfgrass foliage is dry. Due to 2,4-D's high water solubility coupled with reports stating < 50 % of applied 2,4-D is sorbed by plants, research was conducted to quantify dislodgeable 2,4-D on a simulated football field over time. Five sample collection times within a day (TWD) (5:00, 7:00, 9:00,11:00, or 13:00) were evaluated in each of five days after treatment (DAT) (1, 2, 3, 6, or 12). The author's hypothesis was accepted, as dislodgeable 2,4-D decreased as TWD and DAT increased. While dislodgeable 2,4-D decreases over DAT are likely due to a culmination of dissipation processes, data suggest the effect of turfgrass canopy moisture largely impacts dislodgeable 2,4-D over TWD. 2,4-D residues consistently decreased each day from 1 to 3 DAT at both 5:00 and 7:00, while samples collected at 9:00 and 11:00 were higher at 1 DAT than 2 or 3 DAT. Further, no differences were detected across DAT for samples collected at 13:00. When comparing TWD across DAT, data suggest 2,4-D re-suspends on treated turfgrass blades overnight, as 2,4-D dislodged at 13:00 on 1 DAT was 95 % less than samples collected the following morning at 5:00 and 7:00. Further, 2,4-D dislodged at 13:00 on 2 DAT was 96 % less than 5:00 at 3 DAT. Correlations between 2,4-D dislodged with relative humidity and the difference between the ambient air temperature and dew point suggest this is due to atmospheric conditions being more favorable for dew formation at earlier TWD sampling times.
24126714|The major aim of this study was to determine the effect of the modulation of sorbitol dehydrogenase activity on sugar partitioning in apple leaves at different developmental stages. Transgenic plants with regulated sorbitol dehydrogenase (SDH) activity were obtained using transgenic sense and antisense technology. Plants were analyzed using native Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis assay and western blotting. Sugar levels (glucose, fructose, sorbitol and sucrose) were determined in leaves at different developmental stages. The two antisense lines (A090802-1 and A011803/A) showed reduced SDH activity in immature leaves while the sense lines (S071502 and S091202) showed similar SDH activity to untransformed controls. Western blot analysis partially correlated with activity assays implying the possibility of post-transcriptional regulation. Differences in SDH activity were associated with an altered fructose:sorbitol ratio in immature leaves of transgenic plants. Increased levels of glucose in immature and middle stage leaves were observed in antisense line A011803/A. Differences in fructose sorbitol and sorbitobsucrose ratios among transformants were not significant in mature, fully expanded leaves. These results suggest that the differential regulation of SDH activity in immature leaves could have dramatic consequences on the sugar partitioning between sink and source vegetative tissues and consequently on the vegetative growth of apple plants.
24126511|The ornamental qualities of Camellia japonica have long been of interest to horticulturists. The European garden plant market has traditionally been characterized by erect, branched and flowered plants. More recently, a new market linked to increasing urbanization has developed for compact, highly branched and flowered plants to decorate balconies and patios. Two flushes are formed per year in temperate climates, and three years are required to obtain a garden plant. In the humid, tropical climate of Reunion Island, at an altitude of 700 m, three to four flushes are formed in a single growing season. Under these conditions and with no pruning, it is possible to produce an upright plant with a height of 48.5 cm and 7.5 branchings, adapted to the traditional garden market. With two prunings and the same growing period, a compact plant with a height of 25.4 and 17.0 branchings can be produced, adapted to the new balcony-patio market. In both cases, floral induction occurs in November when the nighttime temperature is above 15 C. This research shows that it is possible to generate diversified and innovative forms of Camellia japonica with considerable marketing potential using adapted pruning and under appropriate climatic conditions.
24126491|As part of a research project 13 cultivars were planted in 2005 at 11 sites in 5 different Austrian regions. The aim was to find new cultivars tolerant to the soil-borne pathogen Verticillium dahliae and to leaf/fruit diseases, with high yield and good fruit quality, to serve as alternative to 'Elsanta', a highly susceptible cultivar regarding soil-borne diseases. Infestation with V. dahliae was evaluated in 2005 and 2006 at 7 sites and in 2007 at 3 sites. Moreover marketable yield, percentage of different categories of unmarketable fruits, plant vigour, and incidence of the blossom weevil Anthonomus rubi, of chlorosis and of leaf spot diseases were assessed on 2 of the sites in 2006 and 2007. 'Elsanta' showed the highest infestation with V. dahliae whereas 'Salsa' and 'Daroyal' were most tolerant. 'Daroyal', 'Queen Elisa', 'Eva' and 'Dora' showed very high plant vigour. 'Dora', 'Eva', 'Queen Elisa' and 'Daroyal' recorded significantly higher losses by the blossom weevil than 'Alice'. Highest marketable yield per plant had the late ripening cultivars, particularly 'Salsa' and 'Sonata'. Of all early ripening cultivars tested, 'Darselect' showed the highest yield, followed by 'Elsanta', 'Daroyal' and 'Alba'. Summing up all the results, 'Alba', 'Alice', 'Daroyal', 'Darselect' and 'Salsa' can be recommended for organic production. 'Elsanta' and 'Sonata' had high yield under organic farming conditions, but are highly susceptible to V. dahliae. 'Salsa', 'Daroyal', 'Alice', 'Record' and 'Queen Elisa' are suitable for growing in Verticillium-infested soils. As new alternatives to 'Elsanta', the early ripening cultivars 'Alba', 'Clery', 'Daroyal' and 'Queen Elisa' can be used, though 'Clery' and 'Queen Elisa' had rather low yield under organic farming conditions and 'Alba' and 'Clery' are only partially tolerant to V. dahliae. 'Divine' and 'Dora' had low yield and are susceptible to Verticillium-wilt and 'Record' is prone to grey mould. These cultivars cannot be recommended for organic production.
24134255|The protective effects of the growth regulator prohexadione-calcium and a mixture of the antioxidant a-tocopherol with the cryoprotector glycerol against freezing injury were examined in leaves of apple (Malus domestica Borkh.) seedlings and in flowering branches of various apple varieties. Apple seedlings were treated with prohexadione-Ca two and nine days before freezing incidences. The results were compared with the data obtained, from plants pretreated with -tocopherol/glycerine and exposure to artificial and natural frost. Chlorophyll fluorescence was measured for the determination of intensity of cold damage in apple seedlings cv. 'Golden Delicious'. Frost injury was significantly reduced due to the application of prohexadione-Ca. The photochemical efficiency of the electron transport system was slightly elevated in leaves of pre-treated apple seedlings. Artificial cold treatments of flowers resulted in reduced damage in plants treated with prohexadione-Ca compared to the control. The protective effect was also observed in flowers of orchard trees, especially after natural freezing events, which turned out to be more destructive than artificial freezing. In addition, the formulations containing -tocopherol/glycerol gave significant protection against freezing injury, in leaves of apple seedlings as well as in flowers of orchard trees. Ein mglicher Effekt des Wachstumsregulators Prohexadion-Calcium wurde im Vergleich zu einer -Tocopherol/Glycerin-Formulierung hinsichtlich der Wirksamkeit gegenber Frost-induzierten Pflanzenschden bei Apfelsmlingsblttern sowie bei Blten verschiedener Apfelsorten geprft. Die Apfelsmlinge wurden mit Prohexadion-Calcium zwei bzw. neun Tage vor dem Auftreten des Frostes behandelt. Die Tocopherol/Glycerin- Applikationen erfolgten 24 h bzw. 48 h vor dem Eintreten des Frostereignisses. Das Pflanzenmaterial wurde sowohl einem knstlichen, aber auch einem natrlichen Frost ausgesetzt. Chlorophyllfluoreszenzmessungen an Apfelsmlingen haben gezeigt, das s die Frostschden durch Applikation von Prohexadion-Ca reduziert werden konnten. Die relative Chlorophyllfluoreszenz war in den mit Prohexadion-Ca behandelten Pflanzen geringfgig erhht im Vergleich zu den unbehandelten Pflanzen nach Frostexposition. Eine Prohexadion-Ca-Vorbehandlung resultierte auch bei Apfelblten in einem verminderten Auftreten von Frostschden nach Einwirkung von knstlichem, aber auch von natrlichem Frost im Freiland, wobei dem natrlichen Frost im Vergleich zum knstlichen Frostereignis ein hheres Schadpotential zugeschrieben wurde. Auch die Vorbehandlung mit -Tocopherol/Glycerin-Lsungen hatte bei Apfelsmlingen wie auch bei Apfelblten eine mindernde Wirkung gegenber knstlichem und natrlichen Frost zur Folge.
24126364|In twelve EU countries, the lower VAT-tariff is applied to flowers and plants in order to promote the production and employment in floriculture. This paper assesses whether the VAT-regulation for flowers and plants achieves the goals set  promoting consumer demand and production and employment in the ornamental supply chain  (effectiveness) and at what cost (efficiency). The empirical results show that the VAT-regulation for floriculture is effective, but not very efficient.
24126205|The parameters of external fruit quality (colour, firmness, weight, diameter and height of fruits, length and thickness of fruit stalk) and internal fruit quality (content of individual sugars and organic acids) of the 5 apple 'Gala' clones ('Red Gala 95', 'Royal Gala', 'Mondial Gala', 'Schniga Gala', 'Galaxy') and the parental cultivar 'Gala' were evaluated in two cropping years. The proportion of the fruit surface colouring of the clones during both years was 80 %, while the parental cultivar exhibited from 60 to 80 % coloration. In the first years of cropping the fruits of the 'Schniga Gala' already regressed to yellow in higher proportion which is probably due to the instability of stronger red coloration. The clones differed in their stem lengths, but the differences in dimensions and firmness of the clones were not significant. The contents of fructose and sorbitol in the 'Gala' clones differed significandy during both years, while the contents of glucose and sucrose showed differences only in the first year. The contents of total soluble solids, malic and citric acids among the 'Gala' cultivar and its clones were also different in both years, but there were no differences in the contents of shikimic and fumaric acids. The comparisons between the clones and the parental cultivar in their external and internal qualities proved that favourable pedoclimatic conditions and application of suitable technologies enable the clones and the parental cultivar to develop fruits of good quality, with attractive appearance and sweet flavour. Among the studied clones, an excellent internal and external quality of fruits was reached at 'Royal Gala' and 'Galaxy'. Verschiedene Parameter der usseren (Fruchtfarbe, -festigkeit, -gewicht und -hhe sowie Stiellnge und -dicke) und inneren Fruchtqualitt (Gehalt an verschiedenen Zuckern und organischen Suren) von pfeln der Ausgangssorte 'Gala' sowie fnf davon abstammender Klone ('Red Gala 95', 'Royal Gala', 'Mondial Gala', 'Schniga Gala', 'Galaxy') wurden ber zwei Erntejahre erfasst. Der Anteil der Deckfarbe lag in beiden Jahren bei allen Klonfrchten ber 80 %, bei der Ausgangssorte zwischen 60 und 80 %. Die Fruchtfarbe des Klons 'Schniga Gala' tendierte schon im ersten Jahren zu Gelbtnen, was ein Zeichen fr die Instabilitt der roten Deckfarbe sein knnte. Signifikante Unterschied zwischen den Klonen konnten bei der Stiellnge nachgewiesen werden, die Unterschiede bei den Fruchtgreparametern und der Fruchtfestigkeit waren nicht signifikant. Die Fructose- und Sorbitolgehalte der 'Gala'-Klone wiesen in beiden Jahren signifikante Unterschiede auf, whrend diese Unterschiede im Glucose- und Saccharosegehalte nur im ersten Jahr signifikant waren. Auch die Gehalte an lslichen Kohlenhydraten sowie an pfel- und Zitronensure zeigten in beiden Jahren Unterschiede zwischen der Standardsorte und ihren Klonen, diese Unterschiede waren bei der Shikimi- und Fumarsure nicht nachweisbar. Die durchgefhrten Vergleichsanalysen zwischen mehreren ueren und inneren Fruchteigenschaften zeigten, dass unter gnstigen Boden- und Klimaverhltnissen sowohl die Ausgangssorte als auch ihre Klone, Frchte mit attraktivem Aussehen und harmonischem Geschmack produzieren kann. Von den untersuchten Klonen wiesen 'Royal Gala' und 'Galaxy' besonders gute uere und innere Fruchteigenschaften auf.
24126147|Cyclic drought as a single stress factor or combined with low phosphorus (P) and/or low nitrogen (N) availability was tested on plant quality and post-production performance in Campanula carpatica 'Uniform'. Drought stressed plants were irrigated when the soil water potential s reached below 800 hPa and control plants were irrigated when s reached below 200 hPa. The growth substrate was a peat:perlite mixture. Plant height, leaf number, total leaf area, number of flower buds and total fresh and dry weight were reduced by continuous cyclic drought stress and by interrupted cyclic drought stress in combination with either low P alone or a combination of low P and low N. Low N combined with interrupted cyclic drought stress did not reduce plant height compared with cyclic drought as a single stress factor. Apparently, drought stress combined with low N availability favoured vegetative growth at the expense of reproductive growth, whereas dry matter in low P plants was distributed in favour of flower production. All plants produced with drought stress were more tolerant to a post-production drought stress treatment compared with control plants. Low P availability combined with interrupted drought stress during production improved the post-harvest stress tolerance to a larger extent than growing plants with drought stress and standard P levels. An Campanula carpatica 'Uniform' wurden die Auswirkungen zyklischer Trockenheit als alleinigem Stressfaktor oder in Kombination mit geringer Phosphor- (P) und/oder Stickstoff-(N) Verfgbarkeit auf die Pflanzenqualitt whrend der Kultur und beim Endverbraucher untersucht. Die trockengestressten Pflanzen wurden bewssert, wenn das Bodenwasserpotentials s unter -800 hPa und die Kontrollpflanzen, wenn s unter -200 hPa sank. Als Substrat diente eine Torf:Perlit Mischung. Anhaltender und unterbrochener zyklischer Trockenstress in Kombination mit geringem P oder einer Kombination von geringem P und N reduzierte die Pflanzenhhe, die Blattzahl, die Gesamtblattflche, die Anzahl Bltenknospen sowie das Frisch- und Trockengewicht. Die Kombination von geringem N und unterbrochenem zyklischen Trockenstress fhrte im Vergleich mit zyklischer Trockenheit als alleinigem Stressfaktor nicht zu geringerer Pflanzenhhe. Anscheinend begnstigte Trockenstress in Kombination mit geringer N-Versorgung das vegetative Wachstum auf Kosten des generativen, wohingegen die Trockenmasse in Pflanzen mit wenig P zu Gunsten der Bltenbildung verteilt wurde. Alle whrend der Kultur trockengestressten Pflanzen waren beim Endverbraucher toleranter gegen Trockenheit als die Kontrollpflanzen. Geringe P-Verfgbarkeit kombiniert mit unterbrochenem Trockenstress verbesserte die Stresstoleranz der Pflanzen beim Endverbraucher in strkerem Mae als eine Kultur mit Trockenstress und normaler P-Versorgung.
24126380|Strawberry plants (Fragaria  ananassa Duch.) are planted in Canadian nurseries in spring to be dug in autumn as bare-root transplants for winter annual plasticulture fruit production in the south-eastern U.S.A.. A series of whole plant harvests were performed on 'Sweet Charlie' and 'Camarosa' strawberry plants in a nursery and a plasticulture fruit field to study their pattern of dry matter partitioning. Plants were either treated with prohexadione-calcium or mowed, or treated with prohexadione-calcium and mowed in the nursery and compared to untreated plants. All treatments caused a reduction in plant height at the time bare-roots transplants were dug in the nursery. Treated plants allocated more dry matter to root and less to leaves, resulting in an increase in root to shoot ratio and this effect lasted until plants were well established after transplantation into the plasticulture system. By fruiting, treated plants allocated more biomass to fruits, and this difference was due to increased fruit number and not increased fruit size. Untreated plants allocated more to leaves, both in number and percentage, and to stems. Prohexadione-calcium increased root allocation, and mowing (alone or combined with prohexadione-calcium) decreased it. Plants that were prohexadione-calcium-treated and mowed had the highest harvest index and untreated plants had the lowest. 'Camarosa' developed many more leaves and proportionally less fruits than 'Sweet Charlie' during the fruiting phase.
24126123|Papaya fruit (Carica papaya L. cv. 'Sunrise Solo') at pre-ripe (10 to 20 % surface yellow coloration) and ripe stages (70 to 80 % surface yellow coloration) of development were treated with 9 l l-1 of the ethylene antagonist 1-methylcyclopropene (1-MCP) for 18 h at 20 C and then stored at the same temperature. The hypothesis addressed was that fruit at both early and advanced stages of ripening would respond beneficially, in terms of extended shelf-life, and quality retention, to exposure to 1-MCP. For fruit of both ripening categories, respiration and ethylene production, firmness, electrolyte leakage, titratable acidity, pH, soluble solids, and visual changes were recorded during storage. Pre-ripe fruit treated with the ethylene antagonist exhibited a 2-day delay in the respiratory climacteric maximum and showed suppressed but steadily increasing ethylene production throughout storage. A reduction in respiration and ethylene production were also noted for fruit treated with 1-MCP at the ripe stage. The rate of softening of fruit of both ripening categories was significantly reduced in response to 1-MCP. Firmness of pre-ripe fruit declined 52 % over 9 days of storage compared with 30 % for 1-MCP-treated fruit over the same time period. Firmness of ripe fruit at the start of storage was initially 60 % lower than initial values for pre-ripe fruit; however, 1-MCP significantly suppressed further softening of ripe fruit, with 1-MCP-treated fruit declining only 15 % over 8 days of storage whereas controls softened 60 % over a 6-day period. Electrolyte leakage in pre-ripe fruit was significantly suppressed by 1-MCP treatment through 11 days of storage. Efflux was higher in ripe fruit compared with pre-ripe fruit, but leakage values in ripe fruit were not significantly affected by 1-MCP. Soluble solid levels were not significantly influenced by 1-MCP for fruit of either developmental stage whereas the ethylene antagonist affected titratable acidity and mesocarp pH. Fruit treated with 1 -MCP showed delayed loss of surface green colour in pre-ripe fruit and suppressed the intensity of yellow colour development of fruit treated when ripe. In informal sensory analyses, the period of table-ripe edibility of fruit treated when pre-ripe or ripe was extended 4 to 5 days and 3 to 6 days, respectively. Papayas (Carica papaya L. cv. 'Sunrise Solo') im unreifen (10 % bis 20 % gelbfarbige Schale) und im reifen Stadium (70 % bis 80 % gelbfarbige Schale) wurden fr 18 Stunden bei 20 C mit 9 l l-1 des Ethylen-Antagonisten 1-Methylcyclopropen (1-MCP) behandelt und dann bei derselben Temperatur gelagert. Die Hypothese war, dass sowohl unreife als auch reife Frchte, die 1-MCP ausgesetzt werden, eine verlngerte Lagerfhigkeit und bessere Beibehaltung der Qualitt zeigen wrden. Whrend der Lagerungszeit wurden Atmung, Ethylenproduktion, Festigkeit, Elektrolytverlust, titrierbare Sure, pH-Wert, lsliche Feststoffe und sichtbare nderungen bei den Frchten beider Reifestadien aufgezeichnet. Unreife Frchte, die mit dem Ethylen-Antagonisten behandelt wurden, zeigten eine zweitgige Verzgerung des klimakterischen Atmungsmaximums und eine unterdrckte, aber stetig ansteigende Ethylenproduktion whrend der Lagerungszeit. Eine Abnahme der Atmung und der Ethylenproduktion war auch bei reifen Frchten, die mit 1-MCP behandelt wurden, bemerkbar. Durch den Einsatz von 1-MCP konnte die Geschwindigkeit des Weichwerdens der Frchte in beiden Reifekategorien merklich verringert werden. Bei einer Lagerungszeit von neun Tagen verringerte sich die Festigkeit der unreifen Frchte in der Kontrollgruppe um 52 %, verglichen mit 30 % bei den mit 1-MCP behandelten Frchten. Die Festigkeit der reifen Frchte lag am Anfang der Lagerungsperiode bei 60 % der Festigkeit von unreifen Frchte; 1-MCP verlangsamte jedoch das weitere Weichwerden der reifen Frchte. Mit 1-MCP behandelte reife Frchte wurden ber einen Zeitraum von 8 Tagen um 30 % weicher, whrend die unbehandelte Kontrollgruppe innerhalb von nur 6 Tagen um 60 % weicher wurde. Der Elektrolytverlust wurde durch 1-MCP ber eine elftgige Lagerungszeit merklich verringert. Der Verlust war bei reifen Frchten hher als bei unreifen Frchten, wobei die Verluste nicht signifikant von 1-MCP beeinflusst wurden. Der lsliche Feststoffgehalt wurde durch 1-MCP in beiden Reifekategorien ebenfalls nicht beeinflusst. Der Ethylen-Antagonist beeinflusste allerdings die titrierbare Sure und den pH-Wert des Mesocarps. Mit 1-MCP behandelte Frchte zeigen im unreifen Stadium eine verzgerte Abnahme der grnen Bereiche auf der Schale und im reifen Stadium eine schwchere Ausbildung der gelben Bereiche. Eine formlose sensorische Analyse ergab eine verlngerte Zeitspanne fr servierfertige Frchte von 4 bis 5 Tagen bei unreifen und 3 bis 6 Tagen bei reifen Frchten.
24126498|The study of cold hardiness is important because freeze injury is a leading cause of walnut yield losses in many cold regions of Europe and Asia. In this study, three methods of determining cold acclimation in walnut cultivars/genotypes were compared: 1) electrolyte leakage measurement (EL); 2) triphenyl tetrazolium chloride assay (TTC) and; 3) proline analysis. Stems of eight walnut cultivars and genotypes were cut and collected every month from November 2007 to April 2008. EL was conducted using uniform pieces inserted into plastic vials programmed to decrease their temperature by 2 C h-1 to freezing temperatures of -5, -10, -15, -20, -25 and -30 C. The electrolyte leakage from frozen stem tissues was captured in solution and measured using an electrical conductivity meter. Tissue injury was also assessed by TTC analysis using stem segments cooled under controlled temperatures at 2 C h-1 to set temperatures ranging from 5 to -30 C and results were quantified using a spectrophotometer. Proline content of fresh stem tissues was determined using the Bates method. Cold hardiness of samples increased with accumulated seasonal chilling and decreased as they approached spring bud break. A 1.4 to 2.7 fold increase in proline content was observed in stems from November to midwinter. LTsos (temperature causing 50 % lethal injury) ranged from -5.8 to -10 C in November, -12.5 to -19.3 C in midwinter and -5.8 to -9.2 C in early spring. Using both the EL and TTC methods, cultivars and genotypes were classified into three groups based on their cold hardiness: sensitive ('Z3o' and 'Serti), semi-hardy ('Z53', 'Z67', and 'Hartley') and hardy ('Lara', 'Z63' and 'Pedro').
24126237|Cultivation of medicinal plants under controlled environment is a good opportunity to study the influence of main exogenic factors on herbal yield and quality. Such studies can give new data about the yield raise of species, as well as about improvement of content and composition of bioactive substances with practical applications. The main purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of different air temperatures (15, 20, 25 C) under controlled environment conditions on herbal yield and content, composition and antioxidative capacity of secondary metabolites of lemon catmint (Nepeta cataria L. f. citriodora), lemon balm (Melissa offinalis L.) and sage (Salvia officinalis L.). It was found, that tested air temperatures had substantial influence on productivity of studied medicinal plants under controlled environment conditions. In case of lemon catmint 20 C gave maximum raw medicinal material, for lemon balm 25 C was more effective, while in sage, both 20 and 25 C were optimal compared to the lowest temperature treatment (15 C). In lemon catmint and sage, 15 and 25 C temperatures provided high content of essential oil, while 20 and 25 C treatments gave maximum recovery of essential oil. In case of lemon balm, 25 C temperature gave high content and yield of essential oil. The composition of herbs' essential oil essentially depended on air temperature, as well as on harvest rounds. Air temperatures had less effect on content of flavonoids. However some differences were noted in connection with harvest rounds. Antioxidative capacity of flavonoid-rich extracts by ABTS-system showed differences according to air temperatures and first or second cut. Die Kultivierung von Arzneipflanzen unter kontrollierten Anbaubedingungen im hydroponischen System bietet eine gute Mglichkeit, viele exogene Einflussfaktoren auf Kruterertrag und Qualitt zu ermitteln. Durch solche Experimente knnen neue Erkenntnisse ber die Erhhung des Ertrags der Pflanzenarten sowie ber die Vernderung der Inhaltsstoffe und die Zusammensetzung von biologisch aktiven Substanzen fr praktische Anwendungen gewonnen werden. Hauptschlich sollte mit dieser Arbeit die Wirkung von verschiedenen Lufttemperaturen (15, 20, 25 C) unter kontrollierten Umgebungsbedingungen auf Kruterertrag, Inhalt und Zusammensetzung der therischen le, Flavonoidgehalt und antioxidative Kapazitt von flavonoid-reichen Extrakten in Zitronen-Katzenminze (Nepeta cataria L. f. citriodord), Zitronenmelisse (Melissa officinalis L.) und Salbei (Salvia officinalis L.) untersucht werden. Lufttemperaturen haben einen wesentlichen Einfluss auf die Produktivitt der untersuchten Arzneipflanzen. Die Zitronen-Katzenminze gab bei 20 C maximalen Kruterertrag, fr die Zitronenmelisse waren 25 C wirksamer, whrend bei Salbei sowohl 20 und 25 C verglichen mit der niedrigsten Temperaturbehandlung (15 C) optimal waren. Bei Zitronen-Katzenminze und Salbei fhrten Temperaturen von 15 und 25 C zu einer Erhhung des Gesamtgehalts an therischem l, whrend der Ertrag bei 20 und 25 C sein Maximum hatte. Im Falle der Zitronenmelisse waren 25 C als optimal anzusehen. Die Zusammensetzung der therischen le der untersuchten Kruterarten hing im wesentlichen von der Lufttemperatur sowie vom Erntezeitpunkt ab. Auf den Gehalt an Flavonoiden hatte die Lufttemperatur keinen greren Einfluss. Jedoch wurden Unterschiede im Zusammenhang mit dem Erntezeitpunkt bemerkt. Die antioxidative Kapazitt von flavonoid-reichen Extrakten im ABTS-System zeigte Unterschiede hinsichtlich Lufttemperatur und Erntezeitpunkt.
24126909|Tall fescue is moderately tolerant to salinity with great potential for use as turf grass under saline conditions. The objective of this study was to investigate the growth habit and nutrient uptake of tall fescue under salinity stress. Two tall fescue cultivars, 'Tar Heel II' and 'Wolf-pack' were seeded in plastic tubes filled with washed silica sand. Salinity treatment was applied by adding NaCl and CaCl2 (1:1 w/w) to the Hoagland solution in 16 g L-1. Salinity resulted in an average tiller number reduction of 50 % compared to the control, with 'Wolf-pack' showed 5 % more reduction than 'Tar Heel II'. Root/shoot ratio was not affected by salinity treatment (P > 0.05). The tiller appearance rate (TAR) (0.4 week-1) and leaf appearance rate (LAR) (0.35 week-1) of tall fescue plants under salinity stress were significantly lower than the TAR and LAR of control, 1.90 week-1 and 1.0 week-1, respectively. It appeared that TAR was more affected than LAR by the stress. Salt treatment also reduced the uptake of K+ and Mg2+, but increased the uptake of Na+ and Ca2+ in the shoots of tall fescue. Salt treatment did not increase Ca2+ in the roots of tall fescue. In conclusion, maintaining K+, Ca2+ and Mg2+ ionic balance in the shoots is important to improve the stress tolerance in tall fescue as indicated by a higher TAR.
24126432|Non-destructive methods to determine leaf areas are a useful tool in plant physiology and agronomy research. Determining the leaf area in persimmon (Diospyros kaki L.f.) involved measurements of leaf length and width. A two-year investigation was carried out during 2006 (on twelve genotypes) to develop a model and in 2007 (on one cultivar) to validate this model and to estimate the leaf area across persimmon genotypes and environments in Italy. Regression analyses of leaf area versus leaf length and width revealed several models for estimating the leaf area in persimmon. A linear model having leaf length  width as the independent variable (LA = 3.83 + 0.69LW) provided the most accurate estimate (R2=0.98, MSE=14, PRESS=32843) of leaf area in persimmon in 2006. Validation of this model in 2007 on one other genotype gave a close correlation and a high R2 indicating that leaf area may generally be accurately determined from leaf length and width measurements in persimmon.
24126837|A pot experiment was conducted to compare the growth and nutritional status of Rosa 'Mariandel' grown in media containing slightly decomposed Sphagnum peat [peat] and a mixture of 60 % peat and 40 % substrate-compost [v/v, peat-reduced]. Both media received Osmocote (15N-4P-7.5K-l.8Mg) at N rate of 0.8 g L-1. Plant and media samples were taken at potting and after 6,12,18, and 24 weeks. Most physical and chemical properties differed significantly (P  0.05) between media types. However, the media had limited or no effect on non-destructive plant measurements including diameter at the base of old shoots, length of longest new shoots, number of flowers and new shoots, crown volume, leaf colour, and disease incidence. Plants grown in the peat-reduced medium, however, produced greater dry mass and had a higher K concentration and content in flowers, roots, old and new shoots. In contrast, the concentrations and contents of N and Mg were higher in the peat-grown plants with no significant difference in P. Therefore, amending peat with 40 % substrate-compost [type I] resulted in plants with similar growth appearances as compared to the pure peat but differed in the nutritional status.
24126914|Zoysiagrass (Zoysia spp. Willd.) is a sustainable choice for the Mediterranean area, being identified as grass species adapted to low-input environments (limited water requirements, no fertilizer or pesticides after establishment). A distinct drawback in the transition zone is winter dormancy, a temporary suspension of visible growth, followed by discoloration and loss of functionality. In order to investigate the genotype/species effect in relation with agro-meteorological conditions, 10 cultivars/experimental lines were screened for their ability to extend the winter colour retention. A two years field study was conducted on mature swards and evaluated during the onset of dormancy and spring green-up using digital image analysis. For both parameters, in both years, the Authors observed a wide range of cultivar responses. Zoysia japonica genotypes in our study provided significantly shorter dormancy period than fine-leaved genotypes. In some instances, there were as much as 35 and 20 d difference between entries in respect to the winter colour retention and spring onset, respectively. The identification of genotypes with shorter dormancy than 'Meyer' (industry standard) may reduce use of cultural practices, as late-season nitrogen or iron application, normally used to extend the winter colour retention of zoysiagrass in late fall or early spring, showing different levels of success.
24126639|Effects of different temperatures (7, 15, 25 and 30 C) on in vitro pollen germination and pollen tube growth were evaluated in six strawberry cultivars, including 'Allstar', 'Cavendish', 'Chandler', 'Elsanta', 'Elvira' and 'Selva'. Except for 'Elsanta', the viabilities of pollen from all cultivars were found considerably high in 2, 3, 5-triphenly tetrazolium chloride (TTC) stain test. Temperature has a significant effect on pollen germination and pollen tube growth. The highest pollen germination occurred at 30 C for 'Chandler' and 'Selva' but at 25 C for 'Elsanta', 'Cavendish', 'Allstar' and 'Elvira'. A longer incubation period increased the rate of in vitro pollen germination and all cultivars showed the highest germination percentage after 24 hours of incubation. In vitro elongation of pollen tubes was clearly affected by incubation temperature, and cultivars reached their maximum pollen tube growth at different temperature.
24126270|This research was carried out in order to determine changes in respiration rate, internal ethylene, external ethylene, 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) oxidase activity, flesh firmness, fruit colour, sugar (sucrose, glucose and fructose) and organic acid (citric and malic) during preharvest maturity period in 'Esme' and 'Cukurgobek' quince cultivars and to present the usability level of especially ethylene production as harvest criterion in quince. For this reason, fruits were sampled at weekly intervals from 90th day after full bloom till the beginning of climacteric rise in respiration rate. Either internal or external ethylene production was fluctuated during preharvest period. However, ethylene production did not tend to increase sharply while respiration rate was decreasing. Correlation coefficients and variation between years proved that ethylene production could not be used as harvest criterion. Internal ethylene production of 'Esme' and 'Cukurgobek' cultivars were changed between 0.11.7 l l-1 and 0.24.7 l l-1, external ethylene between 0 1.8 l kg-1 h-1 and 02.4 l kg-1 h-1, activity of ACC oxidase enzyme between 00.9 l l-1 and 0 1.9 l l-1, respectively. While regular decreases in flesh firmness of quince fruits during preharvest period were observed, increases with fluctuations in sugar and organic acid content were determined. In this research, fructose and malic acid were found as the dominant sugar and organic acid in quince. Diese Untersuchung wurde durchgefhrt, um bei Quitten der Sorten 'Esme' und 'Cukurgobek' in der Wachstumsperiode vor der Ernte die Vernderungen des Gehalts an internem und externem thylen, der Aktivitt der 1-Aminocyclopropan-1-Carboxylsure (ACC)-Oxidase, der Atmungsintensitt, der Fruchtfleischfestigkeit, der Fruchtfarbe, der Zucker (Saccharose, Glukose und Fruktose) und der organischen Suren (Zitronensure, Apfelsure) herauszufinden und insbesondere die Eignung der thylenproduktion als Erntekriterium aufzuzeigen. Fr diesen Zweck wurden Fruchtproben in einwchigen Intervallen ab 90 Tage nach der Vollblte bis zum klimakterischen Atmungsminimum der Frchte entnommen. In dieser Zeit wurden bei den Quitten sowohl bei der internen als auch bei der externen thylenproduktion Schwankungen beobachtet. Darber hinaus konnte im Gegensatz zur Minderung der Atmungsstrke keine signifikante Erhhung der thylenproduktion beobachtet werden. Korrelationsrechnungen und zwischen den Jahren auftretende Schwankungen zeigen, dass die thylenproduktion bei den Quitten nicht als Erntekriterium verwendet werden kann. Bei den Quittensorten 'Esme' und 'Cukurgobek' vernderte sich die thylenproduktion intern um 0.11.7 l l-1 bzw. 0.2 4.7 l l-1 und extern um 01.8 l kg-1 h-1 bzw. 0 2.4 l kg-1 h-1. Die Enzymaktivitt der ACC-Oxidase vernderte sich um die Werte 00.9 l l-1 und 0 1.9 l l-1. Bei den Quitten wurde in der Periode vor der Ernte eine regelmige Abnahme der Fluchtfleischfestigkeit beobachtet, whrend in dieser Periode der Gehalt an Zuckern und organischen Suren zunahm. Bei dieser Untersuchung wurden Fructose und Apfelsure als der dominierende Zucker bzw. die dominierende organische Sure in den Quittenfrchten festgestellt.
24126836|The concept of deducing nutrient uptake from shoot fresh or dry matter (Alt 1990) was reassessed for Acer pseudoplatans and Sorbus aucuparia. These species are representatives of stress tolerator resp. competitor species, which differ in their allocation of biomass and nutrients to aboveground and belowground biomass. Competitor plants allocate more resources to the shoots, while stress tolerators invest more in root growth. The experiment was carried out in a partly randomized block design with eight replications. One year old seedlings were planted in autumn 2003. Sampling took place in autumn 2004, 2005, and 2006. Fertilization was carried out with 'Entec blue special' (12+12+17) each May after an Nmin-analysis of the soil (060 cm) to give 60 kg N ha-1. At sampling, plants were divided into this year's shoots, old shoots and into roots. Dry matter and N-, P-, and K-concentrations were determined in the different plant parts. Sorbus a. had a higher shoot-to-root ratio than Acer p.. This is consistent with the growth habit of a competitor resp. stress tolerator species. In the shoot the concentration and content of N and K in most cases was higher in Acer p. than in Sorbus a., for P the differences were not as frequently. In the roots Acer p. always had a higher N-, P-, and K-concentration than Sorbus a., the fertilized Acer p. also had a higher content of these nutrients than Sorbus a.. The proportion of nutrients contained in this year's shoot decreased from 7080 % for the two years old seedlings to approx. 48 % in the four years old tress. The proportion of N, P, and K stored in the roots differed widely. The N-content of this year's shoot in most cases was underestimated when deducing it from its dry matter. This was more pronounced for Acer p. compared to Sorbus a.
24126679|Water resources are limited worldwide and there is a need to develop water-saving irrigation practices. Here we applied partial rootzone drying (PRD) to 'Petopride' processing tomato plants with the alternate sides of the root system (RS) being exposed to various extents of soil dryness. The treatments were: daily full irrigation (FI) in both sides of RS considered as the control; and irrigating only one side of the RS for two (PRD2), four (PRD4), and six (PRD6) consecutive days before irrigation was shifted over to the dry side of the RS for the same periods. Leaf water potential, photosynthetic rate, total fresh mass of fruit and total dry mass of fruit significantly reduced in PRD treatments relative to FI. But irrigation water-use efficiency was improved in the PRD treatments. A lower percentage of dry mass was partitioned into the PRD fruit, which had lower fruit water content and higher total soluble solids concentration than the FI fruit. Fruit skin colour was the same for all the treatments. Blossom-end rot incidence was higher in PRD fruit than the FI fruit although their calcium concentration was the same. PRD saved irrigation water by 50 %, but total dry mass of fruit was reduced by 23 %. However, the considerable saving of water could make PRD feasible in areas where water is scarce and expensive.
24126386|The aim of our study was to find new thinning methods for organic apple production able to fulfil the standards of Bio Suisse, the main label organisation of the organic food sector in Switzerland. The 15 trials reported were carried out during flowering period in the years 2003, 2004 and 2005 on the cultivars 'Pinova', 'Gala', 'Maigold', 'Elstar', 'Braeburn', 'Golden Delicious' and 'Otava' at different sites. The results confirm the good efficiency of mechanical thinning with the rope thinner and the thinning potential of vinasse, a by-product of molasses. Different vinasse products were tested (K-Vinasse, light-vinasse, N-Vinasse; NK-Vinasse) and it was observed that those containing less nitrogen had a minor thinning effect. To avoid phytotoxicity on leaves, the concentration of N-Vinasse should not exceed 10 %. It seems that for 'Gala' higher concentrations are needed, 7.5-10.0 %, whereas with 'Maigold' the efficacy of N-Vinasse was the same with the 2.5 % concentration as with 5 % and 10 %. On the other hand, partly good results were obtained when N-Vinasse was over-concentrated to 12 or 15 %, applied at warm weather and rinsed with clear water 4-6 h later to avoid the phytotoxic effect ("burn and rinse" method). Corn Oil (5 %), a commercial product from New Zealand, gave encouraging results. Lime sulphur (2 %) did not effectuate a significantly better thinning effect. The best method tested with a fruit set reduction by 62 % and 3,05 times higher flower bud set next year was achieved with a combination of rope thinner and N-Vinasse: rope thinner to thin the peripheral branches and to exert a physiological stress; and N-Vinasse to thin the inner parts of the canopy that the ropes can't reach. Other tested products did not show satisfying effects. Trials also confirmed the importance of applying these thinning agents at least two times, at the appropriate phenological stage of flowering period mainly at F2 (full bloom) and G (= F2 of the one-year old shoots) and in case at F (king flower open). Hitting also the flowers of the one-year old shoots is important to break bi-annual bearing. Pollen tube growth was assessed by fluorescence microscopy. Almost complete inhibition of pollen tube germination was observed with lime sulphur and over-concentrated N-Vinasse (12 %) whereas with N-Vinasse at 5 % inhibition was 50 % less compared to untreated styles. Overlooking all trials, combining N-Vinasse and rope thinner was the most efficient strategy for flower thinning. However, after our trials, its efficacy seems to depend strongly on climatic conditions and phenological stages: treatments with N-Vinasse should be carried out at warm and sunny days above 16, better 18-20 C. to maximize desiccation on the styles; whereas the rope thinner should be applied during periods of cold and clouded weather to maximize the thinning effect due to physiological stress and shortage of assimilates to the fruitlets.
24134263|The effects of rain protective tree covering on sweet cherry quality parameters: fruit weight, concentration of individual sugars, organic acids, anthocyanins and other phenolics, fruit colour and fruit decay because of fruit cracking and rotting were analyzed on 'Hedelfinger', 'Kordia', and 'Regina' sweet cherry (Prunus avium L.) on the rootstock 'Gisela 5' in 2006. Half of the trees of each cultivar were covered 5 to 6 weeks prior to harvest and the other half was grown without a covering. Tree covering reduced crop losses due to fruit cracking and rotting without negative effects on fruit quality. Covers significantly reduced percentage of cracked 'Hedelfinger' fruit (13.6 %) and of rotten 'Regina' fruit (4.6%). Tree covers had no significant influence on sweet cherry fruit weight, fruit from covered trees had higher fruit weight (4.0 % in 'Hedelfinger', 19.9 % in 'Kordia' and 6.5 % in 'Regina'). Colour parameters L*, a*, and b* significantly changed by covering in 'Hedelfinger' and a* in 'Kordia'. Systematically higher (not significantly) concentrations of sugars (sucrose, glucose, fructose and sorbitol) and organic acids (citric, malic, shikimic and fumaric acid) were measured in fruits under covers. There was no significant effect of covering on the concentrations of phenols (neochlorogenic acid, p-coumaroylquinic acid, chlorogenic acid, epicatechin and rutin) and anthocyanins (cyanidin 3-glucoside, cyanidin 3-rutinoside, pelargonidin 3-rutinoside and peonidin-3-rutinoside).
24126313|Dormant single cane (15 cm) plants of 'Autumn Bliss' and 'Polana', primocane-fruiting red raspberry (Rubus idaeus L.) plants from the UK, were sent to the Agricultural Research Institute of Cyprus in December 2001 after they had already received an unknown amount of field chilling (x days). The plant material after arrival was additionally chilled at 4 C in order to escalate the production and to ensure an adequate fruiting since for raspberry production chilling plays a significant role. The treatments were x, x+16 and x+32 days of chilling. Afterwards the plants were planted in a soilless plant bed system in an unheated plastic greenhouse. The planting density was 4.1 canes m-2. 'Autumn Bliss' had greater cane vigour, flowered earlier, and produced a higher yield with acceptable berry mass, while 'Polana' did not produce flowers in time to yield a sufficient crop before summer (21 June 2002). The additional chilling (AC) reduced cane length, node number, and leaf area for both cultivars but no clear influence was observed on internode length, cane diameter and time to flowering. AC increased the number of fruiting nodes and berry mass for 'Autumn Bliss', whereas this result was not the case in 'Polana'. Our study confirms the hypothesis that raspberries can grow and be produced efficiently in the semi-arid climate of Cyprus. These results also imply that there may be a good prospect for an off-season production system for primocane-fruiting red raspberries in Cyprus and Southern Europe. Ruhende eintriebige (15 cm) Pflanzen der am einjhrigen Holz fruchtenden Himbeer- (Rubus idaeus L.) Sorten 'Autumn Bliss' und 'Polana' wurden im Dezember 2001 von Grobritanien an das Agricultural Research Institute auf Zypern geschickt, nachdem sie bereits eine unbekannte Summe (x Tage) Khltage auf dem Feld verbracht hatten. Nach der Ankunft wurde das Pflanzenmaterial zustzlich bei 4 C kltebehandelt, um die Erntemenge zu steigern und sicherzustellen, da die Kltebehandlung bei der Himbeerproduktion eine wichtige Rolle spielt. Die Behandlungen dauerten x, x+16 bzw. x+32 Khltage. Anschlieend wurden die Pflanzen in einem unbeheizten Kunststoffgewchshaus in ein erdeloses Pflanzsystem ausgepflanzt. Die Pflanzweite betrug 4.1 Triebe m-2. 'Autumn Bliss' wies ein strkeres Wachstum auf, blhte frher und produzierte eine grere Erntemenge mit akzeptabler Beerenmasse, whrend 'Polana' nicht rechtzeitig blhte, um vor dem Sommer (21. Juni 2002) eine ausreichende Erntemenge zu erzielen. Die zustzliche Khlung (AC) reduzierte bei beiden Sorten die Trieblnge, die Nodienzahl, und die Blattflche, wohingegen bei der Internodienlnge, dem Triebdurchmesser und der Dauer bis zur Blte kein deutlicher Einfluss nachweisbar war. Bei 'Autumn Bliss' erhht AC die Anzahl fruchtender Nodien und die Beerenmasse, whrend dies bei 'Polana' nicht der Fall war. Unsere Untersuchung sttzt die Hypothese, dass Himbeeren im semiariden Klima auf Zypern erfolgreich angebaut werden knnen. Die Ergebnisse deuten auerdem daraufhin, dass eine gute Perspektive fr den Anbau von am einjhrigen Holz fruchtenden roten Himbeeren auerhalb der Saison auf Zypern und in Sdeuropa besteht.
24126715|The aim of this work was to evaluate whether there are climate factors that counteract the negative effect of continuous light on the vase life of roses. Continuous lighting is desirable because of the reduction of powdery mildew in roses under this condition. In two experiments, we examined the effects of variations in air humidity, temperature and super-elevated CO2 concentration on two rose cultivars grown under continuous artificial lighting (190 mol m-2 s-1 photon flux density, PFD). There were two rose flushes in Experiment 1; the first under very low daylight conditions in January/February (average 2.5 mol m-2 day-1 PAR), the second in March/April (average 10.5 mol m-2 day1 PAR). In the first flush, simulating greenhouse ventilation by a 6-h increase in vapour pressure deficit (VPD) from 550 to 900 Pa, combined with a drop in CO2 concentration from 800 mol mol-1 to 380 mol mol-1, significantly increased vase life compared with constant low VPD/constant 800 mol mol-1 CO2. Dividing the 6-h simulated ventilation period into three 2-h periods throughout the photoperiod further increased vase life in one of the two cultivars. Exposing the roses to a similar 6-h increase in VPD by increasing the temperature from 19 to 29 C (while keeping air humidity constant at 80 % RH) was just as effective as the simulated ventilation treatments. While 6 h of super-elevated CO2 concentration (4700 mol mol-1) had no effect on vase life in one cultivar, it did have some effect in both flushes in the other one. Varying the VPD resulted in similar vase life as in roses growing under a 4-h dark period. In the second flush, with much more daylight, there were minor differences in vase life between treatments. In Experiment 2, under very low daylight (November/December), a constant VPD of 290 Pa (90 % RH) resulted in a very short vase life. A 6-h increase in VPD to 550 Pa (by decreasing RH from 90 to 79 %) significantly increased vase life. In one of the two cultivars, vase life was even longer than at a constant high VPD (630 Pa). Generally, a positive correlation was found between vase life and the ability of detached leaves to control water loss. The implications for practical greenhouse production are discussed.
24126289|Genetic distances between nineteen Dahlia cultivars and three genotypes of wild Dahlia species and a hybrid were analysed with 1432 AFLP-Markers generated by 10 Hind/Mse primer combinations. Markers were transformed into a 0/1-matrix and relative distances were computed by means of the Jaccard-coefficient. From these data a dendrogram was constructed by the UPGMA-method. In the dendrogram the cultivars cluster together into one group, while the wild species and the hybrid branched off at a larger genetic distance. The level of genetic similarity of the cultivars averaged between 0.68 and 0.77. Only two varieties displayed a similarity of 0.92 to each other. This relatively large genetic distance between the cultivars indicates a vast potential for further variety development. Within the cultivars different clusters are formed which do not show any relation to phenotypic characteristics like inflorescence morphology or breeding origin. This lack of correlation indicates that a classification of dahlias into horticultural groups does not reflect genetic relationships between cultivars. Therefore, this classification should not be used to select parents for further breeding apart for the few characters it is built on. With knowledge about the genetic background additional information for the selection of genotypes as parent in breeding is available. Genotypes can be choosen for their low level of relatedness or for their genetically characteristics independent from the horticultural type.
24126481|For artichoke cultivars grown for the fresh market a sizable "heart" and outer bracts with high contents of inside flesh are potentially favourable characteristics. We suggest a simple and accurate method for determining the edible fractions of artichokes. Edible parts of stem, outer bracts, inner bracts, as well as pappus and receptacle were determined based on partitioning of cooked buds. The heart fraction was calculated as the sum of edible inner bracts, pappus and receptacle divided by the drained weight. The total edible fraction was calculated as the sum of all edible parts divided by the drained weight. Differences in edible fractions were detected between seed artichoke cultivars 'Imperial Star' and 'JW 109'. The method described may contribute to a more detailed quantification of artichoke quality.
24134268|Bell pepper (Capsicum annuum L., cv. 'Mercury') response to full and deficit irrigation was studied during the 2005 growing season at Tal Amara research station in the Central Bekaa valley of Lebanon. Treatments were (C) well-watered treatment receiving 100 % of crop vapotranspiration (ETcrop), and three water-stressed treatments receiving irrigation at 80 (WS1), 60 (WS2) and 40 % (WS3) of ETcrop. Pepper seasonal evapotranspiration varied from a low of 275 mm in the more stressed treatment (WS3) to a high of 478 mm in the well irrigated control, while in WS1 and WS2 seasonal ET accounted for totals of 427 and 360 mm, respectively. Relative to plants grown in WS1 treatment (31.9 t ha-1), marketable fruit yields of C, WS2, and WS3 were reduced by 11.3, 12.2, and 38.2 %, respectively. WS1 and WS2 treatments enhanced fruit quality (dry matter and total soluble solids contents) compared with C. Water use efficiency at dry yield basis (WUEy) of the control was 0.35 kg m-3 while WS1, WS2 and WS3 treatments had WUEy higher by 22, 35 and 39 %, respectively. Radiation use efficiency (RUE) observed in the C and WS1 treatments (avg. 2.20 g MJ-1) was higher by 13 % in comparison to WS2 and WS3 treatments (avg. 1.96 g MJ-1), with no significant differences between CWS1 and WS2 WS3. We concluded that WS1 treatment is recommended for drip irrigated bell pepper under field conditions in order to obtain higher yield and optimized WUE under the Mediterranean dry climate of the Central Bekaa Valley.
24126649|The choice of gelling agent and culture condition affected the growth and development of hybrid Cymbidium Green Planet 'Energy Star' protocorm-like bodies (PLBs). A liquid medium culture system using a rockwool support in a Techno pot under heterotrophic culture (sucrose-containing medium with non-enriched CO2 conditions) resulted in improved plant growth compared with standard-agar, gellan gum and oatmeal agar used as substrate. Since the majority of expiants (96.7 %) died in non-agitated liquid culture, a static liquid culture system is not recommended. Cymbidium PLBs showed superior properties (higher survival rate of expiants, more PLBs, and higher total fresh weight and dry weight of neo-PLBs) when cultured under heterotrophic conditions than when cultured under photoautotrophic conditions.
24126367|Intensive horticulture is a traditional agricultural system in Southern Spain, with crop rotations that are often surface irrigated and heavily fertilized. The Granada Vega has been classified according to European Union regulation as a vulnerable zone to nitrate contamination. Farmers must comply with mandatory agricultural practices aimed to reduce groundwater and surface water pollution with nitrate. The goals of this study were to propose and evaluate alternatives to traditional crop management practices to minimize nitrate leaching. An escarole crop under three different crop management systems (plastic mulch, plastic mulch combined with floating cover and control at open air) was studied in 2005 and 2006. Commercial yield, crop evapotranspiration, biomass production, leaf area, nitrate concentration in leaves and in drainage water were monitored. Protected escaroles (mulched and mulched with floating cover) reached their commercial fresh weight before the control did. Commercial yield of open air crops was highly dependent on weather conditions. The results of this study suggest that mulching in escarole may have a positive effect on reducing nitrate leaching. Also, the amount of N fertilizer applied to the protected treatments following the Nmin method was found to be excessive and can be adjusted in order to reduce nitrate leaching without affecting yield. Covering the crops did not seem to increase nitrate content in leaves. Adding a floating cover to the mulched crop would be advantageous only under unfavorable weather conditions. In that case, it could increase marketable yield and shorten the crop cycle.
24126106|Morphoetric characteristics of fruit bearing branches of 100 walnut trees originating from seeds, were examined. The study was based on tree architecture analysis of fruit bearing wood in four (IIV) morphological types with different branching and fruiting pattern. Among 14 quantitative characteristics of three-year-old bearer together with the corresponding two-year-old and annual shoots, phenotypic correlations were determined to investigate the relationships among the traits. It is considered for all morphotypes that longer annual shoots are thicker and have more nodes and more vegetative buds. In the morphotypes II, III and IV, the number of fruit bearing two-year-old shoots is correlated with the total number of two-year-old shoots. Longer two-year-old shoots are thicker and have more nodes. In morphotypes I and IV, longer three-year-old bearers usually develop more two-year-old shoots which are shorter and thinner, and have a lower number of nodes. It holds for the morphotype I that more female flowers per inflorescence on annual shoot could be expected when they grow on shorter and thinner two-year-old bearing shoots. Phenotypic correlations that have been determined in the first step of our long term investigation are expected to be useful in walnut breeding for improving two or more traits simultaneously. The work is being continued with a detailed evaluation of yield components (quantity and quality) and testing stability of four morphotypes. In the next two to three years, the most influential morphometric traits of fruit bearing branches could be recommended as a new selection criteria in walnut breeding. Bei insgesamt einhundert Walnusssmlingen wurden morphometrische Charakteristiken der fruchttragenden Triebe untersucht. Die Analyse der Baumarchitektur wurde in die Untersuchung miteinbezogen, wobei das fruchttragende Holz in vier morphologische Typen (I-IV) mit unterschiedlichen Verzweigungsmustern und Fruchtbildungen gegliedert wurde. Um die Verbindungen zwischen einzelnen Eigenschaften der dreijhrigen Triebe zusammen mit den auf diesen Trieben wachsenden ein- und zweijhrigen Trieben auswerten zu knnen, wurden in die Untersuchung auch phnotypische Korrelationen einbezogen. Es hat sich erwiesen, dass bei allen Morphotypen lngere einjhrige Triebe dnner waren, und dass sie mehr Nodien und vegetative Knospen entwickelten. In den Morphotypen II, III und IV korrelierte die Frchtezahl auf den zweijhrigen Trieben mit der Gesamtzahl der zweijhrigen Triebe. Lngere zweijhrige Triebe waren dnner und entwickelten hhere Nodienzahl. In den Morphotypen I und IV entwickelten lngere dreijhrige Trger meistens mehrere dnnere und krzere zweijhrige Triebe mit geringerer Nodienzahl. Beim Morphotyp I wrden einjhrige Triebe mehr weibliche Blten entwickeln, wenn sie auf krzeren und dnneren zweijhrigen Trgern wchsen. Phnotypische Korrelationen, die whrend des ersten Schrittes unserer Langzeituntersuchungen ermittelt wurden, knnen die Walnusszchtung positiv beeinflussen. Die Untersuchungen werden mit ausfhrlichen Auswertungen des Ertrages (quantitativ und qualitativ) fortgesetzt. In den nchsten zwei bis drei Jahren werden die einflussreichen morphometrischen Eigenschaften der fruchttragenden Triebe als neues Selektionskriterium bei der Walnusszchtung eingesetzt.
24126322|Seeds of different cultivars of peach rootstocks were assessed to determine the causes of several deleterious traits that affect the quality of the seedlings that result from them. The incidence of triple cotyledons was significantly influenced by variety. It was also found that that the production of multiple stems could be caused by either the production of multiple seeds or by multiple stems originating from cotyledonary axils. The incidence of both traits was heavily influenced by the genotype of the variety. The production of multiple shoots was also affected by temperature with low temperatures favouring their appearance. The incidence of double seeds also varied among cultivars with the average size of seeds from stones that contained double seeds being significantly smaller than for single seeds. The smaller size of double seeds was associated with poorer germination, reduced speed of germination and reduced growth rates. Although there was a strong relationship between seed size and stone (endocarp) size for stones that contained single seeds, no such relationship existed for those stones that contained double seeds. Therefore, selection on the basis of stone size cannot be used to select out stones containing double kernels. The elimination of multiple shoots and double seeds from peach seedlings would reduce the costs associated with rootstock production and could be achieved by removing plants that exhibit these traits from the production system and clonally propagating those trees that are free of such traits. In dieser Untersuchung wurde Saatgut von verschiedenen Pfirsichunterlagen-Genotypen beurteilt, um die Ursachen fr zahlreiche unerwnschte Merkmale, die die Qualitt der aus ihnen hervorgehenden Smlinge beeinflussen, zu ermitteln. Das Ausbilden von Dreifach-Keimblttern wurde signifikant von der Sorte beeinflusst. Es zeigte sich, dass die Bildung zahlreicher Triebe entweder direkt aus multiplen Samen (im Stein) oder ber den Austrieb von Keimblattachselknospen erfolgte. Das Auftreten beider Merkmale wurde sehr stark vom Genotyp beeinflusst. Die multiple Sprobildung wurde auerdem durch die Temperatur und insbesondere durch tiefe Temperaturen gefrdert. Die Hufigkeit von Doppelsamen war bei den Sorten unterschiedlich, wobei die durchschnittliche Gre von Steinen mit zwei Samen signifikant geringer war als bei jenen mit einem Samen. Die geringere Gre der Doppelsamen war gekoppelt mit geringerer Keimrate, geringerer Keimgeschwindigkeit und geringerer Wachstumsrate. Auerdem gab es bei Steinen mit nur einem Samen einen engen Zusammenhang zwischen Samengre und Stein- (Endokarp-)gre. Dieser Zusammenhang bestand bei Steinen mit zwei Samen nicht. Aus diesem Grund ist eine Selektion auf Basis der Steingre kein Kriterium fr Doppelsamen. Das Ausschalten von multiplen Sprossen und Doppelsamen wrde die Kosten fr die Produktion von Pfirsichunterlagen senken. Dies knnte durch Aussondern von Pflanzen mit unerwnschten Merkmalen aus dem Vermehrungszyklus in Kombination mit dem Klonen von merkmalsfreien Pflanzen geschehen.
24126191|AVG (aminoethoxyvinylglycine) was applied pre-harvest (125 ppm) a.i. at a single application 21, 14 or 7 days prior to the first commercial harvest and post-harvest to the pear cultivars 'Abb Ftel' and 'Bartlett' to evaluate changes in fruit maturation. Fruit ripening was also monitored after 7 or 14 days of cold storage at 0 C. The ripening indices most affected by the treatments were ethylene production and flesh firmness. The ripening of 'Abb Fetel' fruit treated in pre-harvest was delayed by 5 to 15 days depending on harvest date. After 7 and 14 days of cold storage, the AVG treated fruits partially retained their unripe characteristics as compared with untreated fruits. Flesh softening was also partially retarded with post-harvest AVG dip treatment of 'Bartlett' fruit. Um den Einfluss des Mittels auf die Fruchtreifung zu ermitteln, wurden die Birnensorten 'Abb Ftel' und 'Bartlett' entweder 21, 14 bzw. 7 Tage vor dem im Erwerbsobstbau blichen Erntetermin oder aber danach mit AVG (Aminoethoxyvinylglycerin, 125 ppm) a.i.) behandelt. Die Fruchtreifung wurde nach 7- bzw. 14-tgiger Lagerung bei 0 C berprft. Den grten Einfluss hatte die Behandlung auf die Reifindices Ethylenproduktion und Fruchtfleischfestigkeit. Die Reifung der vor der Ernte behandelten 'Abb Fetel'-Frchte verzgerte sich in Abhngigkeit vom Erntetermin um 515 Tage. Whrend der 7- bzw. 14-tgigen Khllagerung behielten die AVG behandelten Frchte teilweise ihren unreifen Zustand bei. Auch das Weichwerden des Fruchtfleisches war bei 'Bartlett'-Frchten, die nach der Ernte in AVG getaucht wurden, teilweise verzgert.
24126794|To produce new ornamental plants by combining Saintpaulia ionantha and Streptocarpus, two closely related genera of the family Gesneriaceae, protoplast fusions were accomplished. Various tissues were evaluated as potential starting materials for protoplast isolation from Streptocarpus saxorum  S. stomandrus and S. caulescens. Sufficient protoplast yields between 2 and 3.6  105 g-1 fresh mass with high viabilities from 6896 % were obtained from the leaves of in vitro shoot cultures, which were grown in liquid medium in the dark. After 14 days of culture, cell divisions reached frequencies between 2.1 and 5.5 %, depending on the species, and vigorously growing calluses were obtained. However, only root formation was induced on these calluses; no shoot induction was achieved. For the protoplast fusion, polyethylene glycol was applied and an appropriate fusion protocol was developed. The fusion rate, which was determined by cell nucleus staining with ethidium bromide, reached up to 35 % binuclear protoplasts. Cell divisions were observed in four fusion experiments between two Streptocarpus species and two Saintpaulia ionantha varieties, and in two of these experiments, callus formation was also observed. To identify possible hybrid calluses, calluses were preselected by flow cytometry and analysed with RAPD markers. In 27 out of 30 tetraploid calluses the DNA bands from the Streptocarpus parent were dominant or were the only ones detected, in one the bands from the Saintpaulia parent, and only two calluses with bands of both parents were observed. This evidence supports the notion that successful fusions between Saintpaulia and Streptocarpus are possible, but no plants could be regenerated from the hybrid calluses.
24126724|Centrifugal pruning (CentP) was compared to conventional pruning (ConvP) over a five-year period beginning in 2004 with five-year-old peach trees, of the medium-maturing cultivar 'Caprice', under the conditions prevalent in the Middle Rhone Valley in France. CentP is a new training system for peach trees designed to improve light distribution in the canopy by creating a "light well" around the scaffold through early manual pruning. CentP tended to increase total soluble solids compared to ConvP, but the average fruit weight tended to decrease under CentP. Nevertheless, because of the increase in fruit yield, notably as a result of the greater number of flowers per shoot length, the relative profitability of fruit production was higher under CentP than under ConvP. Labour demand increased under CentP compared to ConvP, in the same proportion as monetary returns, so that the supplemental costs due to this innovative pruning method tended to be economically compensated for by increased fruit production. Water sprouts were removed in spring under CentP, instead of in summer under ConvP. Because summer is considered to be the busiest time of the year for fruit producers, CentP appears to be more advantageous in terms of work time management in the peach orchard than ConvP. Brown rot incidence tended to decrease at fruit maturity and until post-harvest storage under CentP compared to ConvP. This suggests that appropriate pruning practices possibly decrease peach disease sensitivity, which could lead to the reduced use of pesticide sprays to control brown rot in the orchard.
24126702|The effects of fruit order, polyethylene mulch colour and early forcing on the biochemical compounds (BCs) vitamin C (L-ascorbic acid), percentage soluble solids (Brix), total acids, total anthocyanins, total phenolics and ellagic acid of strawberry (Fragaria  ananassa cv. 'Korona') were examined. The study was conducted in three consecutive years on fruit taken from a split-plot design involving a tunnel. There were large differences in fruit season and yield between the first and second fruiting years, reflected in the differences between levels of examined BCs of fruit orders, which ranged differently. The differences observed in Brix and total acids were not sufficient to have a major effect on fruit taste. Using white polyethylene mulch (WM) increased the Brix-value in one of the three years of the study and vitamin C in all years compared to brown polyethylene mulch (BM). Total acids were completely unaffected by mulch-colour during the whole course of the study. The contents of total phenolics, total anthocyanins and ellagic acid were examined only for the last year, and no significant effect of mulch colour for total anthocyanins was observed, while ellagic acid and total phenolics increased on WM compared to BM. Forcing made the plants fruit four or seven days earlier in the first and second year, respectively, but had no influence on the examined BCs. However, forcing strongly reduced fruit size and increased the percentage of malformed fruits in one year.
24126282|This study targeted to assess the yield components and physicochemical traits of eight common bean landraces versus four commercial cultivars widely grown in Greece. The genotypes were cultivated for two growing seasons under organic growing conditions and a preponderance [better agronomic characteristics; number of pods per plant, seed weight, biomass and enhanced physicochemical properties; protein and fat content (%)] of landraces over commercial cultivars was found. It was also observed that organic environment of experimentation allowed for better differentiation of the examined genetic material but displayed a negative impact on the commercial cultivars. These results were obtained by determining the genetic parameters (GCV, H) and orthogonal contrasts between different (landraces versus commercial cultivars) groups according both to growth type and origin. High detectable genetic variation in agronomic performance and physicochemical traits among the examined dry bean cultivars was found. Three high yield landraces of enhanced physicochemical properties ( % protein and fat content) were identified as promising material for eventual production of ecotypes endowed with high adaptation to organic cropping system.
24126796|Alternative methods for propagation of apple rootstocks are needed where the climate is not optimal for stool bed multiplication and where in vitro culture is not an option. This study examined production of cuttings from roots and rooting of these cuttings to explore whether efficient propagation of apple rootstock M9 'Lancep' is possible by this method. Hypotheses for the study were: i) Root quality (length and thickness) and soil conditions affect the production of cuttings from root tissues; and ii) the rooting success of cuttings is promoted by an external supply of hormones. Cuttings were taken from roots of six qualities in three growing media and at two root depths (3.5 and 7.0 cm) and the production of cuttings and the rooting process were monitored. Medium to long roots of large diameter (510 mm) produced the highest number of cuttings. A thin soil cover (3.5 cm) on top of the root mass was better than a thick layer (7.0 cm) for high production efficiency and cutting quality. The etiolated base of such cuttings did not need to be treated with plant growth regulators in order to obtain high rooting efficiency, probably because of the juvenile state of cuttings produced from these roots. Compact cuttings of high quality rooted well and gave plantlets of good quality. These results contribute to the establishment of an efficient propagation procedure for apple rootstock M9 'Lancep'.
24126223|In this study the hypothesis that a variation in air humidity will reduce the negative effect of continuous lighting on keeping quality of cut roses without enhancing the development of powdery mildew, was evaluated. Vase life and water loss from detached leaves were studied in two cut rose cultivars grown at daily periods of 0, 6, 12 and 24 h at 62 % combined with 82 % relative air humidity (RH) under continuous lighting. In addition, the effect of constant low (62 % RH) and constant high (82 % RH) was studied at 18 h day-1 lighting period. In continuous light, six hours with low RH considerably increased the vase life as compared with constant high RH in both cultivars. Extending the period with low RH from 12 to 24 h decreased the vase life particularly in cv. 'Orange Unique'. Reducing the lighting period from 24 to 18 h day-1 significantly increased the vase life both at low and high RH. A close relationship was found between the vase life and control of leaf water loss from detached leaves in the different treatments. Reducing the lighting period increased the vase life and decreased the water loss from the leaves both at constant low and constant high air humidity. The development of powdery mildew was significantly reduced when the lighting period was increased from 18 to 24 h day-1. The results are discussed in relation to produce cut roses with long vase life at a greenhouse climate that causes a minimum of powdery mildew development.
24126358|The effect of salinity on some agro-physiological properties, such as dry matter, nutrient contents, chlorophyll contents, and ionic balance of corn plants, were investigated. Plants were treated with six salt sources (NaCl, Na2SO4, CaCl2, CaSO4, MgCl2, MgSO4) and four concentrations (0, 40, 80, and 120 mM doses) for 30 days in a growth media. Salt type and doses affected soil pH and electrical conductivity. Soil salinity affected the parameters considered and changed the nutrient balance of plants. High salt concentration caused substantial reduction in plant growth. Different salt concentrations negatively affected plant dry weight. The highest decrease rates of plant dry weight was obtained for NaCl application followed by Na2SO4, CaCl2, MgCl2, CaSO4 and MgSO4. Total chlorophyll and nitrate contents of plants decreased with increasing salt doses, and the lowest value was obtained for NaCl application. Proline contents of plant were increased with increasing salt doses, and the highest value was obtained for 120 mM NaCl application. The effects of salt concentrations on N, K and P content of plants were significant. The highest decrease rate was determined with NaCl application, but the lowest with MgSO4. Iron, Mn and Cu content of plants showed similar variation, as the highest for NaCl, and Na2SO4, and the lowest for CaCl2 and CaSO4. The highest decrease in Zn content occurred with MgSO4 application, but the lowest with NaCl. Es wurde die Wirkung des Salzgehalts auf einige pflanzenphysiologische Eigenschaften wie Trockensubstanz, Nhrstoff- und Chlorophyllgehalt sowie Ionenbalance von Maispflanzen untersucht. Die Pflanzen wurden 30 Tage lang in Substraten kultiviert, die die Salze NaCl, Na2SO4, CaCl2, CaSO4, MgCl2, MgSO4 in vier Konzentrationen (0, 40, 80 und 120 mM) enthielten. Der Salztyp und die Dosis beeinflusste den Substrat-pH und die elektrische Leitfhigkeit. Der Salzgehalt des Substrats beeinflusste die untersuchten Parameter und vernderte die Nhrstoffbalance der Pflanzen. Hohe Salzkonzentrationen fhrten zu einer deutlichen Reduktion des Pflanzenwachstums. Verschiedene Salzkonzentrationen beeinflussten das Trockengewicht negativ. Die strkste Minderung des Trockengewichts verursachte die NaCl-Gabe gefolgt von Na2SO4, CaCl2, MgCl2, CaSO4 und MgSO4. Der Chlorophyll- und Nitrat- Gesamtgehalt der Pflanzen fiel mit steigender Salzdosis, wobei die NaCl-Gabe den geringsten Wert verursachte. Der Prolin-Gehalt der Pflanzen stieg mit steigender Salzdosis, die Gabe von 120 mM NaCl fhrte zum hchsten Wert. Der Einfluss der Salzkonzentrationen auf die N-, K- und P-Gehalte war statistisch signifikant. Die hchste Reduktion wurde von NaCl-Gaben und der absolut geringste Wert durch MgSO4 verursacht. Eisen-, Mn- und Cu-Gehalte zeigten hnliche Variationen, die strksten bei NaCl und Na2SO4 und die geringsten bei CaCl2 und CaSO4. Der hchste Rckgang beim Zn-Gehalt trat bei der MgSO4-Gabe und der geringste bei NaCl auf.
24126274|Monilinia vaccinii-corymbosi (Monilinia blight, mummy berry disease) is one of the most important plant pathogenic fungi on blueberries in America and was not detected in Europe until now. In the years 2002 and 2003, in Styria (Austria), a fungus was isolated from blueberries (Vaccinium corymbosum 'Berkeley') and identified morphologically as Monilinia vaccinii-corymbosi through appearance on shoots and fruits, the asco- and conidiospores and the overwintering structures. As known so far, this is the first verified occurrence of M. vaccinii-corymbosi in Europe. Monilinia vaccinii-corymbosi (Monilinia-Spitzendrre, mummy berry-Krankheit) zhlt zu den wichtigsten Schadpilzen im amerikanischen Heidelbeeranbau und wurde in Europa bisher noch nicht nachgewiesen. In den Jahren 2002 und 2003 konnte in der Steiermark (sterreich) von Kulturheidelbeeren (Vaccinium corymbosum 'Berkeley') ein Pilz isoliert und morphologisch aufgrund des Schadbildes an Trieben und Frchten, den Asko- und Konidiosporen sowie den berwinterungsorganen als Monilinia vaccinii-corymbosi identifiziert werden. Nach bisherigem Wissensstand ist dies das erste nachweisliche Auftreten von M. vaccinii-corymbosi in Europa.
24126813|The use of saline water is an option for the irrigation of salt tolerant ornamentals as competition for high quality water increases. However, despite the importance of ornamental shrubs in Mediterranean areas, salt tolerance of such species has received little attention. Our investigations focused on two species of Bwcus L. used in urban green design: B. sempervirens L. and B. microphylla Sieb. & Zucc. 'Faulkner'. Plants were subjected to treatments with two NaCl solutions (125 mM and 250 mM) and distilled water (control), applied by immersion and sprinkler. Injury symptoms by means of visual check were regularly evaluated each two weeks, and SPAD values, and chloride and sodium concentrations were measured in leaves at the end of the experiment. Buxus resulted an interesting genus as no severe damages were detected in all salt-treated plants. With this background, B. microphylla 'Faulkner' resulted less affected by salt stress. B. sempervirens showed more relevant foliar damages (bronzing, yellowing and scorching) and higher chloride and sodium leaf concentration when treated by immersion.
24126154|Prohexadione-Ca is a new, multi-functional plant bioregulator for use in pome fruits. In addition to regulating vegetative growth and improving fruit set, the compound reduces the incidence of shoot fire blight and other diseases. Complete absorption of the active ingredient is of great importance for the efficient use of products containing prohexadione-Ca. This can be advanced by using calcium-binding and acidifying adjuvants and by taking care that a long-lasting liquid film remains on treated shoots. Intensity of shoot growth should be under control from its beginning with dosages, which have to be adjusted according to expected shoot vigour. Prohexadion-Ca ist ein neuer, multifunktioneller Bioregulator fr Kernobst. Mit dem Wirkstoff lsst sich das Triebwachstum regulieren und der Fruchtansatz verbessern. Zugleich wird eine Wirkung gegen Triebinfektionen durch Feuerbrand und gegen andere Pathogene erzielt. Fr einen effizienten Einsatz von Prohexadion-Ca-haltigen Produkten ist eine mglichst vollstndige Wirkstoffaufnahme von groer Bedeutung. Dies kann durch die Verwendung von Calcium-bindenden und surewirksamen Adjuvantien sowie durch einen lang anhaltenden flssigen Belag auf den behandelten Trieben gefrdert werden. Die Intensitt des Triebwachstums sollte von Beginn an kontrolliert werden. Die dafr bentigten Aufwandmengen sind von der erwarteten Triebkraft abhngig.
24126788|In vitro propagation of rare Indian medicinal herb 'Safed Musli' (Chlorophytum borivilianum) was achieved using encapsulated shoot buds. Four millimetre long shoot buds encapsulated in 3.0 % sodium alginate matrix polymerised by 100 mM solution of CaCl2.2H20 yielded best results. Storage conditions, gel matrix media and period in storage influenced the in vitro regrowth potential of shoot buds when transferred on standard multiplication (SM) medium containing MS salts and 5.0 mg 1-1 BAP. Encapsulated shoot buds stored on wet agar-gel and kept under culture room conditions of light and temperature (45 mol m-2 s-1 and 282 C, respectively) showed more than 80 % sprouting within 3 weeks. Dark stored (4 C) encapsulated shoot buds on agar-gelled wet medium showed more than 90 % sprouting after 7 d of storage. The per cent response in terms of regrowth potential declined to 60 % when buds were stored for more than 30 d attaining a low of 20 % in another 30 days. Supplementing alginate matrix with sucrose and MS salts (ALMSS) produced better results as compared to that with MS salts alone (ALMS) or without any of them (ALW). All the sprouted shoot buds, irrespective of their storage conditions, produced normal shoots on SM and multiplied at a rate of 2.5-fold per subculture of 21 d each. More than 70 % microshoots could be rooted on the medium containing 3/4 MS salts and 2.0 mg 1-1 IBA. Rooted plantlets were hardened successfully and grown under greenhouse conditions where they produced normal tuberous roots. This method of micropropagation opens possibilities for storage of shoot buds during off-season of production and facilitate transport of germplasm with ease. Durch die Verwendung von eingekapselten Triebknospen gelang es, die seltene indische Medizinalpflanze 'Safed Musli' (Chlorophytum borivilianum) in vitro zu vermehren. Vier Millimeter lange in durch eine 100 mM CaCl2.2H20-Lsung polymerisierte 3.0 % Natriumalginatmatrix eingekapselte Triebknospen erzielten die besten Resultate. Die Lagerbedingungen, das Gelmatrixmedium und die Lagerdauer beeinflussten das Austriebspotential der Triebknospen in vitro, wenn diese auf Standardvermehrungsmedium (SM) mit MS-Salzen und 5.0 mg 1-1 BAP gesetzt wurden. Eingekapselte Triebknospen, die in feuchtem Agargel unter Kulturraumbedingungen hinsichtlich Licht und Temperatur (45 mol m-2 s-1 bzw. 282 C) gelagert wurden, zeigten in den ersten drei Wochen zu ber 80 % Sprossbildung. Eine 7-tgige Lagerung bei 4 C und Dunkelheit fhrte bei ber 90 % in feuchtem Agargelmedium eingekapselten Triebknospen zur Sprossbildung. Bei einer Knospenlagerdauer ber 30 Tage verringerte sich das Austriebspotential auf unter 60 % und erreichte nach weiteren 30 Tagen einen Tiefstand von 20 %. Der Zusatz einer Alginatmatrix in Kombination mit Saccharose und MS-Salzen (ALMSS) fhrte zu besseren Ergebnissen als die Zugabe einer Alginatmatrix nur mit MS-Salzen (ALMS) oder reiner Alginatmatrix (ALW). Alle sprobildenden Triebknospen bildeten unabhngig von den Lagerbedingungen auf SM normale Sprosse aus, die sich in Subkulturen innerhalb von 21 Tagen um das 2,5-fache vermehrten. Die Bewurzelungsrate betrug auf Medium mit 3/4 MS-Salzen und 2.0 mg 1-1 IBA mehr als 70 %. Bewurzelte Pflnzchen konnten erfolgreiche abgehrtet werden und bildeten unter Gewchshausbedingungen die gewohnten knollenartigen Wurzeln aus. Die hier beschriebene Methode der Mikrovermehrung erffnet Mglichkeiten, Triebknospen auerhalb der Produktionsphase zu lagern und erleichtert auerdem den Transport von Erbplasma (Genmaterial).
24126278|The aim of this work was to determine the effect of both nursery container volume and the use of paclobutrazol retardant associated to holding plugs on the growth of Impatiens wallerana, an important bedding plant, at the commercial sales stage. Our results showed an increase in dry weight and main root at the sales stage while plug cell volume increased from 512 to 50 plug cell tray (2.5 to 55.7 cm3 cell-1) during nursery. When the growth retardant paclobutrazol was used, a significant decrease in total dry weight has been found. Larger transplant sizes could be achieved by holding plugs two weeks from the 'optimum transplant'. The advantage of small transplants is related to lower establishment costs but, the presence of short-and long-term stresses such as the 'root restriction' imposed by small plug cell tray and/or growth regulators which inhibit plant growth overriding these economic aspects affects their suitability.
24126149|A new method to test plants for frost hardiness was developed by placing the top of container plants downwards in a computer-controlled freezer and keeping the roots upwards above an insulated cover  the upside down freezing test. Four cultivars of Ilex spp. were freeze tested 3 times during the autumn/winter 1999 at -10, -16, and -22 C and compared with control plants kept at 4 C. Electrolyte leakage from leaves of the freeze tested plants was measured and Index of Injury (It) was calculated. Afterwards the plants were placed in a greenhouse to observe plant performance, and the results were related to It. The upside down freezing test was useful as the plant top was frozen without killing the roots. There were significant effects (p<0.05) of temperature, time, and cultivar and some of their second order interactions using It as variable. Plant performance under greenhouse conditions showed relatively good correlation with It. Plants registered as dead had high It and plants registered as not damaged had relatively low It. It can be concluded that it is possible to use the upside down freezing test and the derived Index of Injury to estimate plant performance. Using these methods the testing time for selection of new frost hardy ornamental or landscape plants can be reduced. Es wurde eine neue Methode zur Frosthrte-Bestimmung bei Pflanzen, der upside down freezing test, entwickelt, bei dem die Pflanzen in einer computerkontrollierten Gefriertruhe mit der Pflanzenkrone nach unten und den isolierten Wurzeln nach oben platziert werden. Im Herbst/Winter 1999 wurden vier Ilex spp. Sorten dem Gefriertest mit drei Wiederholungen und drei Temperaturstufen (-10, -16 und -22 C) unterzogen und mit 4 C-Kontrollpflanzen verglichen. Die Elektrolytverluste der gefrorenen Bltter wurden gemessen und daraus der Schadensindex (It) ermittelt. Die Pflanzen wurden im Anschluss ins Gewchshaus gebracht, um ihre Leistungsfhigkeit zu beobachten und die gewonnenen Ergebnisse mit dem It zu korrelieren. Vorteil des upside down freezing test ist, dass die Pflanzenkrone eingefroren wird, ohne gleichzeitig die Wurzeln abzutten. Durch die Verwendung von It als Variable war es mglich, Signifikanzen (p<0.05) hinsichtlich Temperatur, Zeitpunkt der Behandlung und Sorte sowie einiger Wechselwirkungen nachzuweisen. Zwischen der Leistungsfhigkeit der Pflanzen unter Gewchshausbedingungen und dem It bestand eine enge Korrelation. Pflanzen, die als abgestorben bonitiert wurden, hatten einen hohen und Pflanzen, die als ungeschdigt bonitiert wurden, einen relativ niedrigen It. Abschlieend kann festgestellt werden, dass der upside down freezing test in Kombination mit dem Schadensindex eine gute Mglichkeit darstellt, die Leistungsfhigkeit von Pflanzen zu schtzen. Die Anwendung dieser Methode kann die Dauer der Frosthrteselektion neuer Zier- und Baumschulpflanzen verkrzen.
24126486|Black spot resistance in the field was visually evaluated for a total of 581 accessions at two locations in central and northern Germany. At Sangerhausen rose garden 289 of 486 accessions have shown a high level of disease resistance. After subsequent resistance tests in the detached leaf assay 33 of these accessions did not show any signs of black spot infections. At Ahrensburg 41 of the 130 wild rose accessions from 65 species were not infected in the field. Leaves of the accessions without apparent black spot infections were sampled and inoculated under laboratory conditions with different single spore isolates and field collected samples of the pathogen. A total of 11 accessions were found to be highly resistant to all black spot isolates. Powdery mildew resistance of 39 accessions at Ahrensburg was identified after field evaluation and artificial inoculation with different samples of Podosphaera pannosa from naturally infected leaves. Downy mildew resistance was estimated in detached leaf assays after inoculation of a subset of 85 accessions from Ahrensburg with single spore isolates and field collected samples of Peronospora sparsa among which 13 wild rose accessions were found to be resistant. Multiple resistances to two of the pathogens were found in 13 of the investigated accessions of which R. majalis 93-09-01 is highly resistant to all three pathogens, except for isolate Diplocarpon rosae 'AHE10'. These accessions, primarily those carrying multiple resistances, are a valuable genetic resource for the introduction of resistance genes to black spot, downy mildew and powdery mildew into cultivated garden roses.
24126377|Selected abiotic (electric conductivity, pH, oxygen content, chemical oxygen demand, dissolved organic carbon) and biotic (general bacterial and fungal microflora, fluorescent pseudomonads, filamentous actinomycetes, Fusarium oxysporum, Pythium aphanidermatum, biochemical oxygen demand, enzyme activities) factors have been monitored in two distinct commercial hydroponic systems with tomato and ornamental plants with integrated slow filters in supernatant, filter skin and effluent in two successive years. In six small scale experimental systems with two slow filters each (nutrient film technique, crop: tomato) the same parameters were followed to establish possible correlations with filter efficacy against Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. cyclaminis. In half of the systems, the filter skin was enriched with fungal cell wall preparation. Nutrient solutions of the systems showed biggest differences concerning the chemical oxygen demand (COD) (commercial tomato system >> experimental system > commercial ornamental system) and dissolved organic carbon content (DOC). Both factors were positively correlated in supernatant and effluent (e.g. supernatant: r2=0.813; p<0.001). A significant reduction of COD and DOC due to filtration was visible only in the commercial tomato system. The biological oxygen demand of the nutrient solutions was always very low (<2 mg O2l-1). Absolute oxygen content was always reduced by filtration processes. Electric conductivity and pH of nutrient solution remained unaffected by filtration processes. No significant differences between the growing systems concerning biotic factors have been observed in supernatant and filter skin. Pythium aphanidermatum and Fusarium oxysporum were regularly found in the supernatants and colonized the observed filter skins. All effluents of the systems were free of P. aphanidermatum. Fusarium oxysporum was detected continuously in the effluents of the experimental system while effluents of commercial systems contained only F. oxysporum at one incident. Values for chitinase, cellulase, glucanase and protease enzyme activities of the filter skin were not influenced neither by growing systems nor time. Only xylanase activity showed seasonal influences and activities increased over time (mU = 0.088 (mU week-1) * t (week); r2=0.546; p<0.001). Filter efficacies against Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. cyclaminis in the experimental systems varied between 98.3 %1.0 (treated) and 97.9 %1.8 (untreated) but no significant differences could be stated.
24126659|The influence of high CO2 concentrations and diurnal variation in air temperature on the development of powdery mildew (Podosphaera pannosa) was studied in different cut rose cultivars grown under 20 h day-1 supplementary lighting. An increase in CO2 concentration from 380 to 1000, or 2000 pmol mol-1, did not affect development of the disease in cvs. 'Escimo' and 'Red Champ'. Compared to constant temperature, a temperature drop from 22 C to 16 C over the course of 8 h significantly enhanced the attack of powdery mildew in both cultivars, while the same drop in temperature over the course of 4 h had no effect. In another experiment, a temperature increase from 20 C to 26 C reduced the attack of powdery mildew in the four cultivars studied ('Escimo', 'Red Champ', 'Jade' and 'Cezanne') when applied over 4 h and even more so when applied over 8 h. Number of days until flowering was unaffected by CO2 concentration, but was increased by a drop in temperature and decreased by a rise. Fresh weight per shoot was increased by CO2 enrichment, a drop in temperature and by a 4 h period of increased temperature. The results are discussed in relation to an optimal greenhouse climate with respect to rose production and powdery mildew control.
24126617|One of the greatest challenges in screenhouse horticulture is the control of environmental conditions required to reduce the high vapour pressure deficits (VPD) recorded during most of the day in the summertime. This paper describes the results of the research conducted on evaluating the effect of low-pressure misting on the microclimate of a screenhouse on a green bean crop (Phaseolus vulgaris L. 'Festival') over two spring-summer production cycles in south-east Spain, together with a quantification of its water use efficiency (WUE). We compared a screenhouse equipped with a low-pressure misting system (SM), with a screenhouse without a misting system (S) and with conventional open-field crops (OF). The main effect of misting was a fall in the temperature of the plant canopy and of the maximum air temperature and VPD recorded at times of highest radiation and evaporative demand, and an increase in total and commercial productivity compared to the other systems. The misting reduced the light transmission with differences of 132.9 MJ m-2 in 2008 and 155.8 MJ m-2 in 2009 with respect to the S system. WUE was highest for the S system since SM required additional water for misting (29.3 % in 2008 and 45.5 % in 2009).
24126115|A solid-phase micro-extraction (SPME) procedure for analysis of the flavour components of two varieties of Citrus madurensis Lour. (Syn. Citrus microcarpa Bunge), the Philippine calamansi and the Taiwan calamondin, is presented. Fifty-eight components were identified, and grouped into eight classes: 8 monoterpene hydrocarbons, 3 oxygenated monoterpenes, 18 sesquiterpenes, 2 aliphatic hydrocarbons, 10 esters, 11 aldehydes, 3 alcohols and 3 ketones. On the whole, Philippine calamansi juice has statistically higher percentage of ketones, monoterpene hydrocarbons, and sesquiterpenes than calamondin from Taiwan. Principal component analysis (PCA) was used as a descriptive tool to identify aroma species that contributed strongly to overall flavour constituent's variation. Five principal components were extracted from the data matrix represent a cumulative 84.1 % of the total variation of aroma concentration. Among the five PCA axes, the distribution of the Philippine calamansi samples was separated nicely from the distribution of the Taiwan calamondin samples along the third and fourth axes graphically. The third axis is the axis of -pinene and -cubebene. While nonyl alcohol and linalyl alcohol correlate greatly to the fourth axis. The key components occurring in the Taiwan calamondin and Philippine calamansi were compared and discussed. Es wird eine Festphasen-Mikroextraktion-Methode (SPME) zur Analyse der Geschmackskomponenten von zwei Varietten von Citrus madurensis Lour. (Syn. Citrus microcarpa Bunge), der philippinischen Calamansi und der taiwanesischen Calamondin vorgestellt. 58 Komponenten wurden identifiziert und in acht Gruppen eingeteilt: 8 Monoterpenkarbone und 3 oxygenierte Monoterpene, 18 Sesquiterpene, 2 aliphatische Hydrokarbone, 10 Ester, 11 Aldehyde, 3 Alkohole und 3 Ketone. Im groen und ganzen hatte Calamansi-Saft statistisch abgesichert hhere Prozentanteile an Ketonen, Monoterpenkarbonen und Sesquiterpenen als der Calamondin-Saft. Die Hauptkomponenten-Analyse (PCA) wurde als beschreibendes Werkzeug zur Identifizierung der Aromakomponenten, die hauptschlich zur Variation der Gesamtgeschmackbestandteile beitrugen, verwendet. Fnf Hauptkomponenten wurden aus dem Datenmaterial zusammengestellt, die 84.1 % der Gesamtvariation der Aromen reprsentieren. Innerhalb der fnf PCA-Achsen trennten sich die Calamansi-Proben entlang der dritten und vierten Achse deutlich von den Calamondin-Proben. Die dritte Achse ist die Achse der -Pinene und -Kubebene. Die vierte Achse korreliert stark mit Nonyl- und Linalylalkohol. Die Schlsselkomponenten, die in der philippinischen Calamansi und der taiwanesischen Calamondin auftreten, wurden verglichen und diskutiert.
24126421|The induction of polyploidy in Dendrobium scabrilingue L. was conducted by using colchicine treatment while being cultured on semi-solid Vacin and Went (1949). Protocorm like bodies (PLBs) of diploid D. scabrilingue L. were treated with 0.000, 0.025, 0.050, 0.075 and 0.100 % (wt/vol) of colchicine for 3, 7, 14 and 21 d, respectively. The most effective treatment was 0.075 % (wt/vol) colchicine for 14 d which resulted in about 36.8 % surviving PLBs and with 43.1 % of tetraploid orchids, as measured by flow cytometry. Tetraploid plantlets showed broadened, 23 times thicker, less pointy, dark green leaves and increased stem and root diameter as compared to diploid plants. The results show that the ongoing selection process will provide improved and easier to cultivate D. scabrilingue L. of higher commercial value for Thai orchid growers.
24126854|Two medicinal plant species (Achillea collina Becker and Hyssopus officinalis L.) normally occurring and frequendy cultivated in our Central European region, were grown in controlled environment simulating "cold" and "hot" weather conditions. A "cold" environment (slowly increasing temperatures from 12.5/7.5 C to 27.0/14.0 C and 5700 lux illumination) prolonged the appearance of the first inflorescences by 9 weeks in both species. In yarrow, "cold" treatment resulted in elevated plant height (approximately by 50 %) and by up to 35 % larger leaves. In addition, plants produced more biomass (0.117 kg plant-1) compared to the "hot" treatment. The accumulation of essential oil, the proazulene ratio and the total phenol content of the herb have only been moderately effected by the different climatic conditions. In case of hyssop, however, the generative features like number and length of inflorescences were significantly increased by 180 and 108 %, respectively, in the "hot" chamber. Biomass and accumulation of essential oil were also favoured by "hot" treatment. The content of 1.22 ml 100 g oil-1 exceeded the mean value of plants grown in the "cold" chambers by almost 150%. The composition of the oil showed characteristic quantitative changes due to weather conditions. It is concluded that, while in cultivation of yarrow the effect of the year may considerably affect yield, in stands of hyssop it is more important for the quality.
24127679|Rhizopus rot caused by Rhizopus stolonifer, is considered as a major destructive postharvest disease of stone fruits such as peach that severely decreases the shelf life of stored fruits. The aim of this research was to determine and monitor the antifungal activity of essential oils from three medicinal plants, to control Rhizopus stolonifer on peach fruits and enhance fruit shelf life and storage ability. Essential oils extracted from sage (Salvia officinalis), savory (Satureja hortensis) and zataria or Shiraz thyme (Zataria multiflora). These essential oils were added to Petri dishes containing PDA (potato dextrose agar) by two methods, direct contact and fumigation. Results obviously showed that fumigation with zataria and savory essential oils completely inhibited R. stolonifer growth by volatiles with 24 and 48 l concentrations. In the case of direct contact, zataria at 360 l l-1 had maximum inhibition (96 %) upon mycelial growth of R. stolonifer. The main components of zataria oil were carvacrol (38.50 %), thymol (25.50 %) and p-cymene (13.35 %), and savory oil were carvacrol (38.00 %), p-cymene (32.20 %) and -terpinene (21.65 %).
24126845|Na+ content in the plantlets was increased upon exogenous NaCl in the culture medium whereas the potassium ion (K+) decreased. Free proline content in salt stressed cactus plantlets was also enriched and peaked when plantlets were subjected to 200 mM NaCl. Na+ in salt stressed plantlets was negatively correlated to chlorophyll a content. Photosynthetic pigments, i.e., chlorophyll a, chlorophyll b, total chlorophyll and total carotenoids, declined significantly in plantlets exposed to 100 mM NaCl, resulting in reduced net photosynthetic rate and inhibition of overall growth characters. Number of cladode budding, root length, number of roots, and fresh and dry weight of cactus plantlets was significantly declined when cactus plantlets expose to 50 mM NaCl. In addition, the number of roots of in vitro cactus plantlets was a good indicator for salt sensitivity, which were absent in plantlets subjected to 200 mM NaCl for 28 days.
24134266|High levels of regeneration and optimized transient expression factors are critical for increasing transformation rates in plant species. An efficient regeneration protocol was developed and transient expression experiments were carried out to provide information for the improvement of Agrobacterium tumefaciens mediated transformation system in Japanese plum (Prunus salicina Lindl.). Five different varieties of Japanese plum ('Shiro', 'Early Golden', 'Gladstone', 'Red Heart' and 'Bruce'), four different basal salt mixtures (QL, WPM, B5 and MS), light regimes and TDZ pretreatments were evaluated to optimize adventitious shoot regeneration. Regeneration ability was highly variety dependent. Basal salt composition significantly affected the regeneration frequency. Best regeneration frequencies were obtained from 'Shiro' (56.4 %) on QL salts and 'Early Golden' (42.8 %) on B5 medium. Subsequently transient expression experiments were carried out using three Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains; LBA4404, EHA105 and GV3101, each containing binary vector pCAMBIA2301. There were significant differences observed among Agrobacterium strains tested. Agrobacterium strains LBA4404 and EHA105 were much more effective than GV3101 strain and the presence of acetosyringone in the co-cultivation medium resulted in increased GUS expression
24126913|Macropore flow has received increased attention in the recent years due to its importance on solute flow through the vadose zone and contamination of groundwater. The effects of man-made macropores resulting from cultivation of turfgrass sites on the mobility of nitrates and tracer chloride were studied. Treatments included two soil profiles (a sandy profile, simulating a US Golf Association style putting green and a sandy clay soil) and three cultivation practices (shallow hollow tines, 80 mm deep and 19 mm internal diameter (I.D.); deep drill, 220 mm deep and 19 mm I.D.; and high pressure water injection). Free draining lysimeters sodded with Agrostis stolonifera ssp. palustris Huds. var. 'Providence' were used in greenhouse to perform three studies. In the first study, turfgrass was fertilized with a solution fertilizer at a rate of 24 kg N ha-1 and a daily irrigation of 6.8 mm in excess of the predetermined field capacity. In the second greenhouse study the irrigation rate was increased to 13.7 to 27.4 mm d-1 simulating an overwatering regime. In the third study turfgrass was fertilized with (NH4)2SO4 as nitrogen (N) source at a rate of 49 kg N ha-1 and 13 mm of daily irrigation was applied while the plants were sufficient in N. In addition chloride was utilized as a nitrate tracer. In the first study, NO3 was detected after 2 L of effluent volume from the sand profiles and peaked at 13 to 14 mg NO3-N L-1 at 3 L of effluent volume. Nitrate leaching was not affected by the cultivation treatments. However, at a higher daily irrigation schedule (13.7 to 27.4 mm d-1), NO3 concentration from the sand profiles reached 18 to 20 mg NO3-N L-1 but the differences between cultivated and uncultivated profiles were less pronounced compared with the low irrigation regime. Nitrate leaching was not detected from the sandy clay profiles for any of the two irrigation regimes due to a large amount of N plant uptake. In the third study, NO3 leaching from the sandy profiles peaked more rapidly from the shallow and deep cultivated profiles reaching 54 mg NO3-N L-1 for both treatments. Water injected and uncultivated profiles peaked at 45 mg NO3-N L-1. Chloride analysis suggested that macropore flow through cultivation holes did not affect solute flow past the root zone in the sand profiles. The mass of NO3-N lost by leaching differed between studies according to the irrigation rates and the level of N sufficiency of the plants. It was concluded that under proper management practices, turfgrass cultivation is not expected to enhance nitrate leaching.
24126731|Three intensities of winter pruning and of water restriction were assessed in a three-year-old early maturing peach cultivar under orchard and pot training, respectively. Under increasing intensities of pruning, peach growth was not limited at fruit maturity, whereas peach growth was limited under increasing water restriction. Severe pruning and high water restriction contributed to reducing the total shoot length compared to the control trees. Stem water potential decreased under severe pruning and high water restriction, whereas leaf stomatal conductance and transpiration rate were enhanced under severe pruning and limited under high water restriction. Leaf temperature and sub-stomatal CO2 concentration did not vary under different pruning intensities, whereas they increased and decreased, respectively, under increasing water restriction. Under the different pruning intensities, leaf stomatal conductance and transpiration rate were correlated to the shoot length per unit fruit-bearing shoot length, suggesting that vegetative growth could be an alternate sink to the one induced by fruit growth.
24126661|Position within the canopy and shoot type can affect final fruit quality in peach (Prunus persica (L.) Batsch). In this study we examined the variation of vegetative growth, crop load, and fruit quality within vase-shaped peach canopies. In four adult 'Fairtime' peach trees trained to vase, each shoot was labeled and numbered from the top to the bottom of each branch and consequently also in a centripetal direction with respect to the main axis. The length and diameter of each 1-year-old shoot was measured, and the number of sprouts and fruits was recorded. Fruit weight and soluble solid content (SSC) were measured at commercial harvest to determine fruit quality. Total shoot length, yield, total number of fruits, average shoot length, and number of fruits per shoot decreased from top/outside to bottom/inside of the canopy according to a cubic model with a lag phase in the middle part of each branch. Yield per shoot declined linearly from top/outside to bottom/inside of the canopy, whereas SSC decreased exponentially. Shoot diameter, number of sprouts, and number of fruits per shoot were proportional to shoot length, whereas SSC was directly correlated to shoot length and diameter and number of fruits and sprouts.
24126487|Objectives of the present study were to examine the effects of ethylene and the ethylene perception inhibitor 1-methylcyclopropene (1-MCP) on the senescence of flowers of the orchid genera Oncidium and Odontoglossum. Cut inflorescences and entire potted plants were treated continuously with 1 L L-1 ethylene and compared to untreated controls. In addition, detached flower stalks and potted plants were pre-treated with 200 nL L-1 1-MCP for 6 h at 20 C. The inflorescences and potted plants treated with 1 L L-1 ethylene showed accelerated symptoms of senescence, like wilting of the florets and petals. Other remarkable effects of ethylene were the yellowing of the pedicels and bud dropping on cut inflorescences as well as the yellowing of leaves on potted plants. Control, non-ethylene treated, flowers showed these symptoms 38 d later. The plants pre-treated with 1-MCP expressed an increase in shelf life from 210 d in absence or presence of ethylene. In conclusion, genera Oncidium and Odontoglossum have been proven sensitive to ethylene, and 1-MCP improved their postharvest quality if plants are exposed to exogenous ethylene.
24126428|In storage of grafted cuttings, development of graft union at beginning of storage is important, because the scions are easy to be exposed to water stress during storage when the vascular tissues are not connected. Warming treatments were carried out to eggplant grafted cuttings by soaking the cuttings in warmed nutrient solution from the basal cut-end to the graft union at beginning of storage to improve the graft development. The treatment was applied for 4 d at the beginning of the 28 d storage. Values of the chlorophyll fluorescence parameter PSII of the warmed cuttings did not decrease significantly during the 28 d storage, but those of the non-warmed cuttings did. The net photosynthetic rate of scion leaves decreased during storage in warmed and non-warmed cuttings, but values were higher in the warmed cuttings than in the non-warmed. Leaf conductance and water content in the scions of the warmed cuttings was maintained during storage, whereas those of non-warmed decreased. Rooting from the rootstock was not initiated during the 28 d storage. When cuttings were grown for 4 d in a growth chamber following storage, fresh weights of both shoot and root from warmed cuttings were significantly greater than those from non-warmed, control and non-stored cuttings. Those results indicate that the storage quality of the grafted cuttings was improved by warming of the graft union at the beginning of storage, which probably improved the development of the graft union and thereby improved water and nutrient supply to the scion.
24126875|The focus of our investigation was the influence of various rootstocks for peach of different genetic origin on phytochemical composition in the phloem above and below the graft union, and the role of phenols in graft compatibility/incompatibility. Assays of phloem with cambium from 6-year-old 'Royal Glory' peach trees, grafted on rootstocks of various genetic origin, peach seedling (Prunus persica L.), GF 677 and Monegro (both hybrids of Prunus persica L.  Prunus amygdalus L.), Cadaman and Barrier (both hybrids of Prunus persica L.  Prunus davidiana L.), and Penta and Tetra (both belonging to Prunus domestica L.) were analysed with HPLC-MS. Twenty-one phenolics were detected in the phloem of Prunus persica and their hybrid rootstocks, and 10 phenolics in Prunus domestica rootstocks. The most abundant phenolic group in the phloem of Prunus persica and Prunus domestica rootstocks was the flavanols. 'Royal Glory' is highly compatible with peach seedling, GF 677 and Monegro rootstocks. In Cadaman rootstock, accumulation of all flavonols, and in Barrier, the flavonols quercetin 3-glucoside and isorhamnetin 3-glucoside, and the flavanone prunin were observed above the graft union, which is related to graft incompatibility. Hydoxycinnamic acids, unknown phenols as well as two dimeric procyanidins were present only in plum rootstocks. The level of all analysed flavonols, flavanone naringenin hexoside, and flavanols (except catechin, epicatechin and procyanidin B1) were significantly higher above the graft union in Prunus domestica rootstocks, which indicates that flavonols could also be involved in the graft incompatibility process.
24126910|Several studies have demonstrated that the establishment of bermudagrass [Cynodon dactylon (L.) Pers.] in transition zones should take place as early as possible in spring in order to avoid damage in the winter of the first year. To define the base germination temperature of some commercial common bermudagrass cultivais in Europe, a laboratory study was conducted from April to May 2013 at the Agricultural Research Council Laboratory of Tavazzano (Lodi). Ten bermudagrass cultivais: 'Gobi', 'Sunbird', 'SR9554', 'Princess77', 'Yukon', 'Riviera', 'Transcontinental', 'Casin Royal', 'Savannah', and 'La Paloma' were tested at alternating temperature regimes 0/10 C, 5/15 C, 10/20 C, 15/25 C to assess final germination percentage and seed vigour through calculation of the Germination Rate Index and Corrected Germination Rate Index. This study shows that seeded bermudagrass cultivais have significantly different germination capacity at the tested temperatures. In addition, findings indicate that seeded bermudagrass can even germinate at temperatures of 10/20 C, corresponding to an average temperature of 15 C. Among tested cultivars 'Riviera' showed the slowest germination.
24134259|The following research was undertaken to determine the effect of propagation container volume on growth of Impatiens walleriana, an important bedding plant, at the commercial sale stage. Impatiens walleriana 'Accent White' seeds were germinated and grown on four different plastic plug trays (50, 128, 288 and 512 cells per tray). When plants reached the transplant stage, twenty plants for each plug tray were transplanted into 800 cm3 pot-1. Our results showed that the restrictions imposed on the root system, when plants are grown in smaller plug cell trays, decreased the dry weight accumulation at transplant and sale stages. The changes in the shoot/root ratio at transplant stage may explain the lesser plant growth in the 512 cells plug tray. There were changes in root system characteristics (both main root length and root thickness) and in total porosity at transplant stage. The highest dry weight accumulation in plants from the 50 plugs tray and the relationship with post-sale behaviour was discussed. Ziel der Untersuchungen war fr Impatiens walleriana, einer wichtigen Beetpflanze, im Verkaufstadium die Auswirkung der zur Jungpflanzenkultur verwendeten Topfgre auf das Pflanzenwachstum zu ermitteln. Saatgut der Impatiens walleriana-Sorte 'Accent White' wurde in vier unterschiedlichen Multitopfplatten aus Styropor (50, 128, 288 oder 512 Einheiten pro Platte) ausgest und kultiviert. Sobald die Pflanzen das Topfstadium erreicht hatten, wurden sie in 800 cm3-Tpfe getopft. Unsere Ergebnisse zeigten, dass die durch die Kultur in kleineren Topfeinheiten bedingten Beschrnkungen des Wurzelsystems, die Trockengewicht-Zunahme der Pflanzen im Topfund Verkaufsstadium reduzierten. Die Vernderungen des Spross/Wurzel-Verhltnisses im Topfstadium knnten das geringere Wachstum in den 512er-Topfplatten erklren. Im Topfstadium sind Vernderungen in den Wurzelsystem-Eigenschaften (sowohl bei der Wurzellnge als auch der dicke) und im Gesamtporenvolumen zu beobachten. Die hchste Trockensubstanz-Zunahme in den in 50er-Topfplatten kultivierten Pflanzen und der sich daraus ergebende Einfluss auf das Verhalten der Pflanzen beim Kunden wird diskutiert.
24126381|Fresh-cut butter lettuce inoculated with Listeria innocua was stored under controlled atmospheres (CA) containing 5 kPa O2 and 0 kPa CO2, 5 kPa O2 and 15 kPa CO2, 75 kPa O2 and 0 kPa CO2, 75 kPa O2 and 15 kPa CO2, and 21 kPa O2 and 0 kPa CO2 (as control) for 10 days at 7 C. The growth of L. innocua, aerobic mesophilic bacteria, lactic acid bacteria and yeasts was studied. Additionally, the respiration rates and visual appearance of the butter lettuce were monitored in all treatments. The browning was measured on the lettuce stems using L*, chroma and hue values. High CO2 conditions promoted the growth of L. innocua. No O2 effect was found on the growth of L. innocua. However, when high O2 and CO2 conditions were combined, a reduction in the aerobic mesophilic bacterial count was observed. A high O2 condition alone could reduce the mesophilic count to the same extent as low O2 levels combined with high CO2 levels while avoiding anaerobic fermentation reactions. The studied CA conditions slightly affected the respiration rates of fresh-cut butter lettuce. CO2 treatments decreased the browning of the lettuce stems. Colour changes were also slightly delayed on the stems under high O2 levels. At the end of the storage period, fresh-cut butter lettuce stored under 75 kPa O2 with 15 kPa CO2 had the best visual appearance.
24126842|The effect of different maximum day temperatures (21.7, 23.7, 26.2 and 29.1 C) was studied in basil, sage, rocket, thyme, lemon balm, cilantro, rosemary and Oregano in CO2 enriched (800 pmol mol-1) daylight phytotron compartments. In addition, four of the species were covered with coloured plastic film in order to control plant morphogenesis (increased ratio of red/far red light). The dry weight of all species responded positively to maximum temperatures above 21.7 C, cilantro and Oregano up to 23.7 C, basil, rocket and lemon balm up to 26.2 C, and sage, thyme and rosemary up to 29.1 C. The plastic film reduced the dry weight of basil, sage, rocket and thyme by 46 % 29due to a 34 % reduction in photosynthetically active radiation. In general, it was concluded that higher temperatures than those normally used should be applied in order to increase growth. The use of coloured plastic film to control morphogenesis, however, reduced plant growth and appeared to be of no practical benefit.
24126638|In the sour cherry cv. 'Stevnsbaer' the content of starch in flower buds was investigated at 5 different flower bud developmental stages. The investigation included 4 different rootstocks: Colt, Weiroot 10, F12/1 and Gisela 5. The starch content of the flower buds was studied in order to examine if it could be correlated to the final fruit set and thereby contributes to the description of flower bud quality. Samples of flower buds were sectioned and stained with Lugols-solution for microscopic analysis of starch. The content of starch in 3 precisely defined parts of the flower buds: Right and left side of the integument and the nucellar tip, was quantified by a computerised image analysing system at 5 different developmental stages. It was demonstrated that starch reserves in flower buds of 'Stevnsbaer' was mobilised to integumentary cells at the early balloon stage; before the early balloon stage nearly no starch was observed at the integumentary cells. In the nucellar tip the content of starch was very limited. No difference in starch content at early balloon was observed among the 4 different rootstocks. In the present study, fruit set was generally satisfactory (24 and 34%). Our investigation did not demonstrate a correlation between the starch content in flower buds and the fruit set.
24126853|In this research, ISSR and SSR markers were used to analyze genetic variation of Marmareh (Prunns incana Pall.), a wild plant species from north-west regions of Iran. Totally, 12 applied ISSR primers generated 144 polymorphic bands (96.45 % polymorphism), with an average of 12 polymorphic bands per primer. Also, a total of 17 amplification alleles were detected by three SSR primers. Of these, 13 alleles were polymorphic, with an average polymorphism of 75.24 %. The similarity values based on integrating ISSR and SSR data varied from 0.07 to 0.69 between accessions, indicating high intraspecific genetic variation. Some accessions of P. incana were defined to be genetically different from the majority accessions and showed high variability, probably due to gene flow or seed propagation. The accessions collected from Sanandaj and Goshji regions were clearly differenced from others. The data generated will be useful for conservation and management of P. incana germplasm and important for Prunus breeding programs.
24127099|In two nursery species important for European forests and landscape, Quercus robur and Fagus sylvatica, the impact of spacing in the seedbed on morphological characters such as height, dry weight, number of first-order-roots and first-order branches (only beech) was assessed after two-years. Height, dry weight of shoot, root, dry weight ratio between root and shoot and percentage of seedlings with six or more first-order roots were all negatively affected at lower spacing. Subsequently the effect of spacing on early field performance was determined after transplanting for two years in competition with grass and without irrigation and fertilisation simulating conditions in a forest. The initial differences between spacings in relation to dry weight were still present after two-years of transplanting. Height increment was small in oak and substantial in beech, but the initial differences in height between spacings were more or less maintained after transplanting.
24126802|Spatial location of the reproductive organs within tree canopy is of a paramount importance in fruit cropping. This research was undertaken to determine the relationship between shoot location in tree canopies vs. shoot characteristics and flower formation potential. The experiment was carried out using 6-year-old 'Burlat' sweet cherry trees planted at the density 1000 trees ha-1. Tree canopies were divided into three horizontal zones located at and 250150,150250,250350 cm above the soil line. Shoot samples were taken from all zones to measure shoot length (SL), shoot diameter (SD), and the number of flower clusters (NFC). There was a close relationship between SL and SD vs. NFC, respectively. Shoots from the bottom and center zones were shorter, and had significantly higher NFC than those from the upper zone. Regardless of zone location, the correlation SL  NFC was approx. 31 % stronger than that of SD  NFC. Regression analysis for the entire canopy showed an exponential function relationship between the SL and NFC. The responses were fitted by an exponential function model with R2 = 0.877. The minimum and maximum NFC cm-1 of shoot length predicted by this model were 0.03 and 0.81 for the shoots 86 cm and 4 cm long, respectively. In order to stimulate formation of flower buds in the upper parts of young densely planted sweet cherry trees, it was suggested to replace invigorating dormant pruning by summer pruning.
24126206|The effects of ripening stage and storage time on quality parameters of red raspberry fruit of cvs. 'Resa', 'Rumiloba', 'Tulameen' and 'Schnemann' were investigated. The ripening stages semi-ripe, ripe and slightly over-ripe were defined by CIE L*a*b* colorimetric measurements. Fruits were stored at 0 d, 1 d at 20 C room temperature and 3 d at 24 C followed by 1d at room temperature, respectively. The parameters firmness, titratable acidity and fruit colour were strongly affected by ripening stage. Storage had a strong effect on the content of soluble solids and the suitability for shipping. Cultivar effects are presented. The sensory descriptive analysis showed an effect of progressed ripening on odour and taste, whereas storage time resulted in small effects, only. Popularity of fruits strongly correlated to attributes like sweetness, sweetness:acidity ratio and fruity taste. Despite low values in the evaluation of the fruits, the attribute untypical/strange was strongly negatively correlated to the popularity. Differences between cultivars are demonstrated. Interactions existed between cultivar x storage time and ripening stage x storage for firmness, suitability for shipping and some sensory parameters. This shows that semi-ripe fruits could have an improved suitability for shipping depending on the cultivar. However the taste of semi-ripe fruits should be considered. Bei den Himbeersorten 'Resa', 'Rumiloba', 'Tulameen' und 'Schnemann' wurden die Einflsse von Reifeentwicklung und Lagerzeit auf die Qualitt der Frchte untersucht. Die Reifestadien halbreif, reif und hochreif wurden mittels CIE L*a*b*-Farbmessungen definiert. Die Frchte wurden wie folgt gelagert: 0 d (Frischware), 1 d bei 20 C Zimmertemperatur und 3 d bei 24 C plus 1d Zimmertemperatur. Die Parameter Fruchtfestigkeit, Gehalt an Gesamtsure und Fruchtfarbe wurden am strksten durch die zunehmende Reifeentwicklung beeinflusst. Die Lagerung bte dagegen einen starken Einfluss auf den Gehalt an lslicher Trockensubstanz und die Verkaufsfhigkeit der Frchte aus. Sorteneinflsse werden dargestellt. Die deskriptive Sensorik ergab einen wesentlichen Einfluss der Reife auf Geruchs- und Geschmacksparameter, whrend die Lagerung nur zu geringen Vernderungen fhrte. Die Beliebtheit der Frchte war stark positiv mit den Attributen Se, Zucker:Sure-Verhltnis und fruchtig korreliert. Das Attribut untypisch/fremd erreichte in der Bewertung nur ein sehr geringes Niveau, war aber dennoch stark negativ mit der Beliebtheit der Frchte korreliert. Sortenunterschiede in der sensorischen Bewertung werden aufgezeigt. Wechselwirkungen zwischen Sorte x Lagerung und Reife x Lagerung fr die Parameter Festigkeit, Verkaufsfhigkeit und einigen sensorischen Eigenschaften geben Hinweise darauf, dass halbreif geerntete Frchte sortenabhngig eine bessere Verkaufsfhigkeit auch nach Lagerung aufweisen knnten. Hierbei darf der Geschmack der halbreifen Frchte allerdings nicht unbeachtet bleiben.
24126701|Prohexadione-calcium (ProCa) applied as foliar spray, increases root to shoot ratio and reduces specific leaf area (SLA) in strawberry plants (Fragaria  ananassa Duch.). These effects may help treated plants to survive a transplant shock. Under mild water stress, ProCa caused a transient reduction in leaf stomatal conductance (gs) in 'Camarosa' and 'Sweet Charlie' plants. This reduction in gs was paralleled by a decrease in transpiration in treated plants, which was not attributable to differences in plant size or leaf area. Pressure volume curves of 'Sweet Charlie' plants revealed that ProCa application lowered leaf osmotic potential at both full and zero turgor, and increased the volumetric modulus of elasticity. ProCa treatment regulated the leaf morphology of strawberry and preconditioned strawberry plants to tolerate water stress. Under field conditions in the plasticulture fruit production system, newly transplanted bare-root strawberry plants had a progressively higher water potential (1) and gs with a longer overhead irrigation. Plants treated with ProCa had a higher 1 and gs than control plants at the same level of overhead irrigation. Application of ProCa to strawberry transplants may in part be able to replace overhead irrigation and at the same time maintain acceptable levels of fruit yield.
24126252|The aim of this project was to investigate the marketability limits of old tomato cultivars used in organic farming and to maintain their biodiversity by promoting consumption on regional markets. Four old and endangered tomato cultivars, 'Ananas', 'Auriga', 'Green Zebra' and 'Lukullus', were treated with 0 and 100 kg N ha-1 applied as horn splinters. Harvesting was performed at early and optimum fruit maturity. All cultivars clearly differed in colour, shape and maturity of fruits. Nutritional quality and health promoting compounds were analysed in terms of beneficial ingredients such as ascorbic acid (vitamin C) and carotenoids (lutein, -carotene and lycopene). Significant differences in nutritional quality of cultivars were detected. The highest contents of ascorbic acid and carotenoids were determined in cv. 'Lukullus'. High amounts of soil - borne nitrogen resulted in no significant effects of N fertilization on N uptake, ascorbic acid and carotenoid contents. Harvest at the optimal ripening stage showed a higher ascorbic acid content in comparison to an early harvest.
24126279|In the presented study, the role of paclobutrazol (N-dimethylaminosuccinamic acid) as a growth regulator influencing in vitro rooting was not confirmed. A simultaneous application of paclobutrazol and auxin (indole-3-acetic acid potassium salt) did not show any positive effect on rhizogenesis in experiments with four different Prunus rootstocks. In variants with paclobutrazol, numbers of roots and their lengths were equal or lower than in controls (i.e. without paclobutrazol and auxin). The application of auxin showed a positive effect on the both number and the length of roots.
24126450|Physiological disorders (deep suture, fruit cracking, and double fruit), and fruit quality of 'Van' sweet cherry (Prunus avium L.) cultivar in relation with irrigation, gibberellic acid (GA3) and nitrogen (urea) were studied. Irrigation treatments were tested as 100 % (full irrigation), 50 % (moderate water stress) and 20 % (severe water stress) replenishment of water depleted from the 100 % replenishment treatment at 90 cm soil profile at ten day intervals. GA3 and nitrogen were applied to trees during flower bud differentiation period at the doses of 100 mg L-1 and 900 mg L-1, respectively. Lowest amount of double fruits were obtained from I50+N+GA3 application. Deep suture were most seen in the fruits exposed to moderate water stress plus nitrogen application. Fruit cracking was not affected statistically significant by any of the applications. All of the quality attributes of cherry fruits were statistically influenced by all the treatments and weather conditions.
24126213|We have investigated the influence of cold acclimation on the mechanical strength of carrot (Daucus carota L.) taproots. Changes in the mechanical strength were monitored when cold acclimation was induced in carrot plants cultivated in a growth chamber under strict climate control and in taproots harvested from field cultivation, where the plants had been exposed to the natural variations in climate. The appearance and accumulation of an antifreeze protein in the cell wall isolated from cold-stored taproots showed that a cold acclimation process is in progress in the harvested taproot derived from carrot plants grown in the field. The force needed to slice the taproots significantly increased during the first 12 weeks of storage, where the higher concentration of the antifreeze protein indicated the highest development of cold acclimation during that period of time. The increase in tissue rigidity during cold acclimation was also shown by the increase of the Young's modulus in taproot tissue from carrot plants acclimated 11 weeks under controlled temperature conditions. After 24 weeks of storage there was a significant increase in slicing force that was accompanied by signs of cell membrane deterioration, as measured by relative electrolyte leakage. Thus, the later increase in tissue strength might be related with a senescence process. Wir haben den Einfluss von Klteanpassung auf die Festigkeitseigenschaften von Mhrenrben (Daucus carota L.) untersucht. Sowohl bei Mhren, die in Pflanzenwuchskammern mit exakter Klimafhrung angezogen worden waren, als auch bei solchen, die im Freiland unter natrlichen Klimabedingungen kultiviert wurden, konnten Vernderungen der Festigkeitseigenschaften als Folge einer Klteanpassung nachgewiesen werden. Das Auftreten und die Akkumulation eines Gefrierschutzproteins in den Zellwnden von khlgelagerten Mhrenrben deutet darauf hin, dass die Prozesse der Klteanpassung bei den Freilandmhren zum Zeitpunkt der Ernte bereits induziert waren. Die Kraft, die zum Schneiden der Mhren aufgebracht werden musste, stieg in den ersten zwlf Lagerwochen signifikant an. Zum gleichen Zeitpunkt konnte in den Mhren auch eine hhere Konzentration an Gefrierschutzprotein nachgewiesen werden, was auf die hchste Klteanpassungsrate hinweist. Im Wurzelgewebe von elf Wochen unter kontrollierten Bedingungen akklimatisierten Mhren zeigte sich die Zunahme der Gewebefestigkeit auch im Anstieg des ermittelten Elastizittsmoduls (Young's modulus). Nach 24 Wochen Lagerung erhhte sich die Schneidkraft signifikant. Dies ging mit Anzeichen von Zellmembranzerstrung, gemessen als relativer Elektrolytverlust, einher. Der spter auftretende Anstieg der Gewebefestigkeit knnte demnach Folge einer beginnenden Seneszenz sein.
24126299|Stored organic and mineral nutrients are essential for spring growth of ligneous woody plants. The nitrogen (N) and potassium (K) dynamics were studied on Ligustrum ovalifolium L. grown in container for two years with or without fertilisation during the second spring. Allocation of nutrient elements towards new shoots was determined. Nutrient transport in the xylem sap was qualified and quantified by a mathematical coupling between sap flow velocity and sap composition. Sap nutrient concentrations increased after bud break, corresponding to an accumulation of mobilised elements before their use for shoot growth. Glutamine and K were identified as the main compounds translocated in the xylem sap and are a consequence of both mobilisation and uptake by roots of fertilised plants. They were mobilised from storage throughout spring although uptake by roots started just after the beginning of shoot growth. In unfertilised plants, N amounts in shoots were close to that of total N which circulated in xylem sap. On the other hand, total N and K circulating in the xylem sap of fertilised plants, and K of unfertilised plants, were higher than the amounts accumulated in shoots. The differences were attributed to the nutrient replenishment of perennial organs and to the internal N and K re-circulating between shoots and roots. The roles of the internal N and K re-circulating are discussed. Eingelagerte organische und mineralische Nhrstoffe sind fr den Austrieb von verholzten Pflanzen lebenswichtig. Die Stickstoff- (N-) und Kalium- (K-)Dynamik wurde whrend des zweiten Frhlings an zwei Jahre mit und ohne Dngung in Containern kultivierten Pflanzen von Ligustrum ovalifolium L. untersucht. Es wurde die Verlagerung von Nhrstoffen hin zu neuen Trieben bestimmt. Der Nhrstofftransport im Xylemsaft wurde qualitativ und quantitativ durch eine mathematische Formel aus Geschwindigkeit und Zusammensetzung des Saftflusses analysiert. Mit dem Aufbrechen der Knospen erhhte sich die Nhrstoffkonzentration im Xylemsaft entsprechend der Anhufung von moblisierten Nhrelementen vor ihrer Verwendung fr das Sprosswachstum. Glutamin und K wurden als Hauptkomponenten der Verlagerung im Xylemsaft identifiziert was sowohl auf eine Mobilisierung als auch auf die Aufnahme durch die Wurzeln von gedngten Pflanzen zurckzufhren ist. Sie werden das ganze Frhjahr ber aus den Einlagerungen mobilisiert, obwohl ihre Aufnahme durch die Wurzeln schon direkt nach dem Beginn des Sprosswachstums startet. In ungedngten Pflanzen entspricht die N-Menge in den Sprossen annhernd dem im Xylemsaft zirkulierenden Gesamt-N. Andererseits waren die im Xylemsaft zirkulierenden Mengen an Gesamt-N und K in gedngten und an K in ungedngten Pflanzen hher als die in den Sprossen angehufte Menge. Die Unterschiede wurden auf die Einlagerung von Nhrstoffen in mehrjhrigen Organen und auf die interne Verschiebung von N und K zwischen Sprossen und Wurzeln zurckgefhrt. Die Bedeutung dieser internen Verschiebung von N und K wird diskutiert.
24126874|The objective of the present study was to investigate the effect of moderately limited soil water supply on root C allocation and root respiration of non-bearing apple trees. Potted 1-year-old apple trees of 'Budagovski 9' grown in sand where water content was reduced (7 % w:w) were compared to plants grown in soil irrigated at field capacity (12 % w:w). Canopies were labelled with 13CO2 and excess 13C allocation within tree organs and evolution from the soil were monitored for 16 days after the labelling. The moderate reduction of soil water content induced a decrease in predawn leaf water potential and leaf gas exchange; however, root and above ground dry weight were not affected. Compared to well-watered control, trees growing in condition of moderately limited soil water supply fixed a lower amount of pulsed 13C. From day 1 to 16, 13C concentration decreased in leaf, increased in root and trunk, and was stable in herbaceous shoots, in both irrigation treatments, with no difference in the 13C partitioning. Root respiration rate of new fixed 13C was reduced by water limitation, was linearly related to the amount of excess 13C allocated into the roots, and became equal to zero by day 16.
24126846|In organic growing optimized harvest time might be an alternative method for avoiding storage diseases. In three years, organically grown apples of 'Aroma' were picked five times at one-week intervals, from two weeks prior to, to two weeks after recommended normal harvest time. The apples were cold stored until February 1 and then kept for two weeks at 20 C. At harvest, fruit quality differed with harvest time, but after storage, time of harvest had no effect on fruit quality. In mean of three years, fruit decay after storage was significandy higher when picked after, compared to prior to recommended harvest time. The most important causes of postharvest fruit decay were Colletotrichum acutatum and Neofabraea spp.
24127673|In vitro mutagenesis and somaclonal variation are the important tissue culture techniques for fruit crop improvement. We carried out a study to induce salt tolerance in a commercial citrus rootstock, 'Rough Lemon' (Citrus jambhiri Lush.) using these techniques. For in vitro mutation induction, physical mutagen (gamma rays) and chemical mutagens viz., ethyl methane sulphonate (EMS) and methyl methane sulphonate (MMS) were used. For physical mutagenesis, 40 and 60 days old calli (DOC) were irradiated with gamma rays (0, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50 and 60 Gy). The chemical mutagenesis was carried out on 45 and 60 DOC by culturing them directly (control I) or prior to culturing, shaked in liquid medium without (control II) or with mutagens (EMS and MMS) treatment at different concentrations (0.1, 0.2, 0.3 and 0.4 %). Based on the survival and the regeneration potential, 1020 and 20 30 Gy were observed to be the optimum mutagenic doses of gamma rays for 40 and 60 DOC, respectively. For chemical (EMS and MMS) mutagenesis, 0.1 % each was the most suitable dose for 45 DOC, whereas 60 DOC did not regenerate after mutagens treatment. Salt concentration of > 25 mM (NaCl) was found to be optimum for in vitro salt screening of the somaclones and mutants. Four somaclones at 25 mM and one each at 50 and 100 mM were obtained after exposing 170 DOC to different concentrations of NaCl (0, 25, 50, 75 and 100 mM).
24126136|The influence of seed maturity and osmopriming on germination and vigour variations in developing tomato seeds was analysed. Seeds were harvested at various maturity classes based on fruit colour. Results revealed that the physiologically mature seeds showed higher percentage germination, robust and healthy seedlings, greater seedling vigour index (SVI) and longer storability. Priming enhanced the germination behaviour of low vigour and ageing seeds. The seedling mortality and abnormal seedlings were higher in the overmature, mature and immature classes, respectively. Gegenstand dieser Untersuchung war der Einfluss des Reifegrades und des osmotischen Primings auf die Keimung und die Vitalitt von Tomatensaatgut. Die Samen wurden in unterschiedlichen, auf der Fruchtfarbe basierenden Reifeklassen geerntet. Die Ergebnisse zeigten, dass physiologisch reife Samen eine hhere Keimrate, widerstandsfhige und gesunde Smlinge, einen hheren Smlingsvitalittsindex (SVI) und eine lngere Lagerfhigkeit aufweisen. Das Priming verstrkte das Keimverhalten von wenig vitalem und lterem Saatgut. Die Rate absterbender und abnormaler Smlinge war in der berreifen, reifen beziehungsweise unreifen Klasse hher.
24126831|Diurnal variations of gas exchange and chlorophyll fluorescence (CF) parameters were measured in hawthorn (Crataegus pinnatifida Bge.) six days after foliar application of L-glutamic acid (Glu) (0, 200, 400 and 800 mg L-1) that possibly affect flavonoids metabolite. The net photosynthetic rate (An), carboxylation efficiency (CE), maximum carboxylation velocity of Rubisco (Vcmax), chlorophyll (Chl) content and stomatal limitation (Ls) were higher in 800 mg L-1 exogenous glutamic acid treatment than in control. The application of 800 mg L-1 Glu always resulted in a higher An, particularly at noon. Although a midday depression in An occurred in all the treatments, the depression was less obvious in the 800 mg L-1 Glu treatment when compared to the control. The electron transport per active reaction centre (ET0/RC) was similar in all the treatments and the control, but the maximal fluorescence level (Fm), the maximal quantum yield of photosystem II (PSII) (Fv/Fm), the potential quantum yield of PSII (Fv/Fo), the maximal quantum yield of PSII after dark adaptation (Po), as well as the probability that an absorbed photon will move an electron into the electron transport chain beyond QA (o) were significantly higher than the control with the application of 800 mg L-1 Glu. A 800 mg L-1 Glu application enhanced energy absorption per active reaction centre (ABS/RC) and energy trapping per active reaction centre (TR0/RC) of PSII, which, consequently, increased energy transformation and electron conversion efficiency and decreased energy dissipation per active reaction centre (DI0/RC). These findings suggest that the application of Glu could improve photosynthetic efficiency and the energy capture of antenna pigments for photochemical electron transport, as well as reduce photoinhibition.
24126710|Plants protect themselves against potentially harmful UV-B radiation mainly by epidermal accumulation of UV-B shielding phenolic compounds and repair of cellular damage. The capacity and necessity for these protection mechanisms alter with the stage of plant and leaf development, which might be crucial for horticultural hardening techniques aiming at a UV-B pre-acclimation of greenhouse grown seedlings before transplantation to the field. In order to examine the development-dependence of UV-B responses and to estimate the efficiency of different hardening strategies, lettuce (Lactuca sativa L., var. crispa L. 'Bughatti') was raised in greenhouses covered with a UV-B transmitting and a UV-B excluding covering material and transferred from one treatment to the other at the age of 20 days. Plant fresh mass and flavonoid content were frequendy determined. Distribution of flavonoids within the plants was assessed by extraction of different leaf age classes. Continuous exposure to near ambient UV-B induced a strong enhancement in cyanidin and quercetin content and a severe growth reduction, whereas late UV-B treatment merely led to a slight enhancement of quercetin in the absence of any growth response. At the leaf level, continuous UV-B exposure caused a comparable quercetin induction at all three stages of leaf development, whereas late treatment caused a much stronger response in young compared to intermediate and old leaves. These findings indicate that UV-B effects on growth and flavonoid content and pattern of lettuce plants are highly dependent on the leaf and plant developmental stage. We conclude that UV-B exposure throughout seedling development is a more efficient hardening strategy than late short-term exposure.
24126861|In ornamental plants grown in small pots, root growth is usually restricted. We have recendy shown that higher dry weights in Impatiens wallerana plants grown in large plug cell volumes (50-cell trays) are related to higher relative growth rates (RGRs). In this work we observed leaf anatomical post-transplant changes in plants of I. wallerana propagated at the pre-transplant stage in different plug cell volumes and sprayed with five BAP (6-benzylaminopurine) concentrations. Results showed that higher RGRs were mainly associated with increased net assimilation rates. In contrast the leaf area ratio seemed to be less important for RGR. Anatomical changes such as leaf thickness, stomata density and intercellular spaces seemed to contribute to increased photosynthetic capacity. We also found that a large leaf photosynthetic area was related to large epidermal cell size.
24126107|A leaf re-greening trial using both Fe-sufficient and deficient Citrus madurensis plants, was carried out over a period of 5 weeks. Attached green and chlorotic leaves were immersed in a 0.2% FeCl2 4H2O solution containing 0.05% Silwet L-7607 surfactant. Treatments were applied under light and dark conditions. Changes in leaf colour, chlorophyll content, and extractable Fe associated with FeCl2 4H2O supply were monitored. FeCl24H2O application resulted in higher chlorophyll contents and extractable Fe in chlorotic leaves. At the end of the experiment, the treated chlorotic leaves achieved similar rates of leaf chlorophyll content, colour and Fe-content to those of Fe-sufficient control leaves. Der Versuch zum Wiederergrnen von chlorotischen Zitrusblttern wurde an Citrus madurensis-Pflanzen durchgefhrt, die entweder Fe-Mangelsymptome aufwiesen oder ausreichend mit Fe versorgt worden waren. Am Baum befindliche Bltter wurden in eine 0,2% FeCl24H2O-Lsung getaucht, die zustzlich 0,05% Silwet L-7607 als Netzmittel enthielt. ber einen Zeitraum von 5 Wochen wurden Vernderungen der Blattfarbe, des Chlorophyllgehaltes und des extrahierbaren Fe-Gehaltes aufgezeichnet. Durch die FeCl24H2O-Applikation kam es zu einer Erhhung der Chlorophyll- und Fe-Gehalte in den chlorotischen Blttern. Am Ende des Versuches hatten die vormals chlorotischen Bltter vergleichbare Werte (Blattfarbe, Chlorophyll- und Fe-Gehalt) wie grne Bltter ohne Fe-Mangel.
24126452|Buxus sempervirens L. extant in a preserved renaissance parterre dating from ca. 1680 at Milde (Bergen, Norway) has been provisionally classified as the morphs 'Pendula', 'Suffruticosa', and "Yellow". These were thought a priori to represent distinct taxa, viz. cultivars. Shoot length, leaf hairiness, leaf width, leaf curvature, and lamina width-to-length ratio measured on 30 leaves in each individual allowed separation of the morphs in discriminant analysis. In AFLP analyses 7 primer combinations yielded informative data, producing 168 (57 %) polymorphic fragments. Based on the AFLP data, the three morphs in neighbour-joining bootstrap analyses formed well supported clades (100 % BP) and in a principal coordinate analysis formed distinctly separated and close clusters, indicating that the morphs are genetically distinct and the individuals of each morph are closely related. Biometrie analysis and finger printing techniques (AFLP) consistently show that the three morphs are both morphologically and genetically distinct. The three morphs are assumed to represent genetically distinct old cultivars introduced during the 17th or 18th century.
24126502|This study aimed to assess the influence of coir dust (CD) on the growth of stem cuttings of Hibiscus rosa-sinensis (shoe flower) and also to select the suitable proportion of CD and potting mixture (PM). Polybags were filled with different proportions (1:0 as a control, 3:1, 6:1, 9:1, 12:1) of PM and CD. PM was incorporated with sand: red soil: cow manure (1:1:1, v/v/v). A single node cutting was planted in each bag and kept in a net house. Growth parameters were measured at regular intervals. The addition of CD to soil improved plant growth characteristics such as the number of leaves, shoot length, leaf area, root length and weight of developed plant parts in PM:CD at 9:1. Soil pH and moisture content were low in the control but highinPM:CD at 12:1 and 3:1, respectively before and after the 6th and 12th weeks of planting cuttings. CD evidently absorbed a large amount of water thus increasing the moisture content of soil considerably. At the end of the 12th week, PM:CD at 9:1 resulted in best growth.
24126336|Chlorophytum borivilianum is an endangered aphrodisiac plant and most of the plants in nature are triploid. Agamospermic seeds of a triploid plant were used to initiate somatic embryogenesis. Plantlets obtained through seedlingderived embryonic callus showed high level of morphological and cytological variation, which increased with the increase in age of cultures. Variegated leaves were also observed occasionally. High level of variation in the leaf size, stomata number and epidermal cell size was observed. Increase in the variation in chromosome number was observed with the increase in age of cultures. Chromosomal variation was least 2n=3x-3 to 2n=3x+3 in 1 to 4 months-old cultures and increased with the age of cultures with 2n=5x-1 to 7x in cultures older than 6 months. Therefore, an alternative method was developed to reduce somaclonal variation in germinated somatic embryos, by using leaf from genetically stable plants (14 months-old cultures) as a source of expiants for re-initiation of fresh embryonic cultures. RAPD finger printing of plantlets raised by this method revealed very little variation (6.15 %). Further improvement in somatic embryogenesis is required towards domestication of the plant using biotechnological method of propagation.
24126420|Decreasing the night temperature in greenhouse production of plants decrease the energy costs. However, problems may arise as low night temperature (LNT) is known to increase leaf starch contents and delay plant development. In this study it was investigated whether increased CO2 concentrations can decrease the negative effects of LNT, when plants of vegetative Chrysanthemum morifolium 'Coral Charm' are grown under greenhouse conditions. Plants were grown under long day conditions (LD) with a photoperiod of 17 h in four compartments. The four compartments had a day temperature set point of 22 C, and four combinations of night temperatures and CO2 concentration during the day; the night temperature set points were 20 C and 12 C, and set points of CO2 concentrations were, ambient CO2 of 400 l l-1 and high CO2 of 900 l l-1. Plants were harvested after 3, 4 and 7 weeks. The leaf carbohydrate contents of the chrysanthemums differed in relation to harvest time and the photon flux density (PFD) measured outside the greenhouse. Treatments with high CO2 and low night temperature (LNT) increased leaf carbohydrate contents, but the effect was more pronounced at the 7 weeks harvest, where also the PFD was high. Generally, the treatment with high CO2 increased growth in terms of increased shoot dry matter (DM) and the formation of leaves in plants grown at LNT. LNT had the opposite effect decreasing shoot DM production, stem length and leaf number, but only at ambient CO2 concentrations. The results illustrate that when plants are grown in a combination with LNT and high CO2, the accumulation of leaf carbohydrates increases, however plant growth is less limited by the LNT in comparison to plants grown in LNT at ambient CO2 concentrations. It is suggested to include high CO2 concentrations in greenhouse production of Chrysanthemum morifolium, when grown under LNT.
24134253|Effects of various agronomic factors on onion {Allium cepa L.) raw material for a combined recovery of onion juice concentrate and onion oil were studied in respect to their impact on crucial onion quality traits such as pungency pungency  estimated as total pyruvic acid (PA)  and total soluble solids (TSS). Cultivar differences, year-to-year variability and effects of planting method, bulb size, S and N fertilization, as well as the impact of the type of preceding crop within a crop rotation were investigated in field trials. In a cultivar comparison of 16 cultivars, a weak correlation between TSS and PA was observed (r=0.64, P=0.008). In a year-to-year variability study PA ranking among six cultivars remained fairly constant over three years. The method of planting had a significant (P<0.05) effect on PA. Bulbs directly sown (cvs. 'Sturon' and 'Stuttgarter Riesen') showed increased pungency compared to bulbs grown from sets. Within a batch of onion bulbs (cv. 'Sturon'), grading for bulbs size exhibited no significant difference in PA among three calibres. In a crop rotation onions grown after legumes as preceding crop had significantly higher pungency (P<0.001) compared to onions grown after cereals. This effect is assumed to be a result of enhanced mineralisation of organic N and S sources. TSS contents were not significantly affected by any treatment. In fertilization experiments, a combined N (0 and 130 kg N ha-1) and S (0, 50 and 100 kg S ha-1) application increased pungency and showed a significant NxS interaction for PA (P=0.032), but not for bulb-S and bulb-N. No effect on TSS was observed. S application of 100 kg S ha-1 vs. 0 kg S ha-1 had no qualitative impact in terms of relative composition of major onion oil compounds and ratio of the biosynthetic aroma precursors methyl- and 1-propenyl-L-cysteine sulfoxide, but caused a remarkable increase of absolute amounts of volatiles (steam distillate), aroma precursors and industrially produced onion oil. Verschiedene agronomische Faktoren bei der Erzeugung von Zwiebelrohware fr eine kombinierte Zwiebelsaftkonzentrat- und Zwiebellgewinnung wurden hinsichtlich ihrer Auswirkungen auf qualittsbestimmende Merkmale wie lsliche Trockensubstanz (TSS) und Schrfe  angegeben als Pyruvat (PA)  untersucht. Die in Feldversuchen untersuchten Faktoren umfassen Sortenunterschiede, saisonale Schwankungen und Einflsse durch die Art der Pflanzung, Bulbengre, S- und N-Dngung, sowie die Art der Vorfrucht innerhalb einer Fruchtfolge. Bei einem Vergleich ber 16 Sorten konnte eine schwache Korrelation zwischen TSS und PA beobachtet werden (r=0,64, P=0,008). Saisonale Schrfeunterschiede zwischen 6 Sorten ergaben ber 3 Jahre keine erheblichen Auswirkungen auf die Rangordnung. Die Art der Pflanzung hatte eine signifikante Auswirkung (P<0,05) auf die Schrfe der Bulben. Saatzwiebeln (Cvs. 'Sturon' und 'Stuttgarter Riesen') wiesen eine erhhte Schrfe im Vergleich zu Steckzwiebeln auf. Eine Sortierung von Bulben einer Population in 3 Grenklassen ergab keinen signifikanten Unterschied der Pyruvatgehalte zwischen den Klassen. Verglichen mit Getreide als Vorfrucht erhhten Leguminosen als Vorfrucht in einer Fruchtfolge die Schrfe von Zwiebeln signifikant (P<0,001). Dieser Effekt wurde einer verstrkten Mineralisierung von organisch gebundenem N und S zugeschrieben. Signifikante Auswirkungen von Vorfrucht, Bulbengre oder Art der Pflanzung auf die lsliche Trockensubstanz konnten nicht beobachtet werden. In einem kombinierten N- und S-Dngungsversuch (0 und 130 kg N ha-1 bzw. 0, 50 und 100 kg S ha-1) wurde eine erhhte Schrfe und eine Wechselwirkung zwischen N und S (P=0,032) auf den Pyruvatgehalt festgestellt. Diese Wechselwirkung wurde allerdings nicht zwischen Bulben-S und Bulben-N beobachtet. Ein Vergleich zwischen einer S-Dngung mit 100 kg S ha-1 und einer ungedngten Kontrolle ergab weder qualitative Verschiebungen bei den Hauptaromakomponenten im Zwiebell noch eine Vernderung des Verhltnisses der Aromaprkursoren Methyl- und 1-Propenyl-L-Cystein Sulfoxid. Es konnte jedoch eine erhebliche Steigerung an absoluten Gehalten von flchtigen Aromakomponenten (Wasserdampfdestillat), Aromaprkursoren und industriell gewonnenem Zwiebell verzeichnet werden.
24126207|The aim of this research was to elucidate the impact of various mulches on N availability in the soil, the plant development, as well as the yield and quality of strawberries (Fragaria x ananassa Duch.). Field experiments were established in 1995 with the strawberry cv. 'Petrina' in the midlands of Switzerland. The following interrow soil covers were compared at a moderate rate of nitrogen fertilization (3  20 kg N ha-1): bare ground (control), black and white water-permeable Mypex films, straw added after planting and a living mulch of a non-winterhardy white clover (Trifolium repens L.). In the latter two systems, the rows were covered by bands of water-permeable black polyethylene plastic film (30 cm wide). The content of mineral nitrogen (Nmin) in the soil was measured in and between the rows (25 cm apart) and in different soil layers throughout crop development. Parameters of vegetative crop development, such as the formation of runners after planting and total leaf area per plant, were also measured. Moreover, concentrations of total N and nitrate in the leaf blades, fruit yield, fruit size, and parameters of fruit quality of cv. 'Petrina', e.g. soluble solids, titratable fruit acid, and the firmness and shelf life of the fruits were assessed. Black and white Mypex films did not have consistent effects on Nmin values in the soil. With continuous decreases in Nmin, winter straw mulch in particular reduced the risk of nitrogen leaching in the interrow area during winter. The white clover mulch treatment clearly decreased Nmin only in the year of planting. The white clover mulch treatment also resulted in a decrease in the number of runners. Ground cover management did not have a significant effect on leaf area. Straw and living clover mulches hindered flower formation, possibly as a result of shading. Moreover, the white clover mulch significantly decreased the fruit yield. Compared to the black Mypex film, the white film reduced the formation of runners, while the number of flowers increased slightly. The colour of the plastic mulches did not have a significant effect on the fruit yield. The size of the fruit was affected to a slight extent by the ground cover treatments. The content of titratable fruit acid increased in the straw and living clover mulch treatment. The fruits were, on average, most firm in the control treatment with bare ground. Based on these studies, we recommend using black and white plastic mulches for strawberry production on sandy loam under temperate conditions. In contrast, interline straw and living white clover mulches seem to have a detrimental effect on the development of the strawberry crop in flat planting systems under the studied agroecological conditions. In einer Neuanlage von Erdbeeren (Fragaria x ananassa Duch.) der Sorte 'Petrina' wurde im Jahre 1995 im schweizerischen Mittelland ein Versuch mit verschiedenen Mulchverfahren angelegt. Neben einem Kontrollverfahren mit offenem Boden kamen ganzflchige Abdeckungen mit schwarzem und weiem wasserdurchlssigem Bndchengewebe (Mypex) zum Einsatz. Im weiteren wurden alternative Mulchverfahren mit Stroh, das nach der Pflanzung im Zwischenreihenbereich ausgebracht wurde, sowie die Einsaat einer nicht winterharten Weikleesorte (Trifolium repens) geprft. Die Pflanzreihen wurden bei diesen beiden Verfahren mit einem 30 cm breiten Band von wasserdurchlssiger schwarzer Polyethylenfoe abgedeckt. Smtliche Bodenpflegeverfahren erhielten eine N-Dngung von 3 Gaben zu 20 kg N ha-1 auf die Pflanzreihe. Im Kulturverlauf wurde der Gehalt an mineralischem Stickstoff im Boden (Nmin) sowohl in den Pflanzreihen als auch im Abstand von 25 cm von den Pflanzreihen gemessen. Es wurden Parameter der vegetativen Pflanzenentwicklung, wie die Ausluferbildung im Pflanz jhr und die Entwicklung der gesamten Blattflche im Kulturverlauf erhoben. Auerdem wurden die Gehalte an Gesamtstickstoff und Nitrat in den Blattspreiten gemessen sowie der Fruchtertrag und die Fruchtgrsse ermittelt. Als Parameter der Fruchtqualitt wurden die Gehalte an lslicher Trockensubstanz und an titrierbaren Fruchtsuren sowie die Festigkeit und die Haltbarkeit der Frchte bestimmt. Die Verfahren mit schwarzem und weiem Bndchengewebe hatten im Vergleich zum Kontrollverfahren keinen klaren Einfluss auf die Nmin-Gehalte im Boden. Die im Zwischenreihenbereich ausgebrachte Strohschicht fhrte von der Pflanzung bis zum Vegetationsbeginn zu einer nachhaltigen Reduktion im Nmin-Gehalt. Die Weikleeeinsaat bewirkte nur im Pflanzjahr eine Verminderung des Nmin-Gehaltes. Whrend die Begrnung mit Weiklee eine geringere Ausluferbildung im Pflanzjahr zur Folge hatte, wurde die Entwicklung der Gesamtblattflche nicht nachweisbar von den Mulchverfahren beeinflusst. Strohmulch und die Weikleeeinsaat verminderten die Bltenbildung. Der reduzierte Bltenansatz resultierte beim Mulchverfahren mit Weiklee in einem signifikant verringerten Fruchtertrag. Ein Vergleich von schwarzem und weiem Bndchengewebe ergab, dass die weie Folienfarbe die Ausluferbildung herabsetzte, whrend die Bltenzahl auf weiem Mulchgewebe leicht hher lag als auf schwarzem. Die Folienfarbe hatte keinen nachweisbaren Effekt auf den Fruchtertrag. Die Fruchtgrsse wurde von den geprften Bodenpflegeverfahren nicht beeinflusst. Strohmulch und die Begrnung mit Weiklee erhhten den Gehalt an titrierbaren Fruchtsuren. Im Durchschnitt waren die Frchte in Parzellen mit offenem Boden fester als bei den Mulchverfahren. Die vorliegenden Untersuchungen zeigen, dass sich schwarze und weie Mulchfolien fr den Erdbeeranbau auf sandigen Lehmbden und unter gemigten klimatischen Bedingungen eignen. In flach gepflanzten Erdbeerkulturen knnen Stroh, das als Mulch zwischen den Pflanzreihen ausgebracht wird, sowie Begrnungen mit Weiklee die Kulturentwicklung negativ beeinflussen.
24126690|There is a need to identify alternative materials that can successfully substitute for the common organic peat. The growth of some bedding plants including Chrysanthemum multicaule.; Impatiens walleriana 'Accent', Pelargonium x hortorum 'Maverick', Petunia grandiflora 'Ultra', Salvia splendens 'Carabiniere' and Viola wittrockiana 'Crown' and 'Super Majestic' growing in Argentinean and Canadian peat was compared and the changes in total and air-filled porosity of the peat were recorded. Our results may let explain previous observations and showed that Argentinean peat does not seem to be an acceptable substitute for Canadian Sphagnum peat, because of the lower dry matter production of the plant, which could reduce bedding grower productivity.
24126354|Hand harvested carrots were kept with and without foliage for four days in a plant cuvette and their ethylene production, endogenous ethylene concentration, and corresponding 6-methoxymellein content were measured. Ethylene was analysed using photoacoustic spectroscopy. Ethylene emissions during postharvest were higher from carrots with foliage than without foliage. A varying light period during storage showed no effect on the ethylene emission rate. Emission increased during the first 10 hours for carrots without foliage but remained constant for carrots with foliage. Ethylene concentration in intercellular air space increased in carrots stored with and without foliage. Despite this, the concentration of 6-methoxymellein increased only during 4 days postharvest period when carrots were kept with leaves. However, for all treatments the final 6-methoxymellein-concentration remained below the tasting threshold. Photoacoustic spectroscopy has been shown to be a very sensitive technique to detect ethylene during product storage. Bundmhren, d. h. Mhren die mit Laub vermarktet werden, produzieren nur sehr geringe Mengen Ethylen. Mhren sind aber auch dafr bekannt, dass sie bereits auf geringe Ethylenkonzentrationen mit der Bildung von Bitterstoffen reagieren. Eine Bestimmung genauer Ethylenproduktionsraten ist daher fr die Entwicklung von Qualittsmanagementsystemen in der Nachernte von Gemsepflanzen unabdingbar. Handgeerntete Mhren mit und ohne Laub wurden vier Tage in einer Pflanzenkvette unter definierten Klimabedingungen gelagert und die Ethylenabgabe sowie endogene Ethylenkonzentration mittels photoakustischer Spektroskopie bestimmt. Es zeigte sich, dass die Ethylenemission in Mhren mit Laub hher war als in Mhren ohne Laub. Unterschiedliche Lichtregime hatten dabei keinen Einfluss auf die Ethylenproduktion. Nach dem Entfernen des Laubes stieg che Ethylenproduktion fr wenige Stunden wundinduziert an. Ein Anstieg endogener Ethylenkonzentration war fr Mhren mit und ohne Laub whrend der viertgigen Aufbewahrung zu verzeichnen. Die Konzentration des Bitterstoffs 6-Methoxymellein stieg hingegen nur in Mhren mit Laub an. In allen Versuchen blieb die 6-Methoxymellein-Konzentration unter der geschmacklichen Nachweisgrenze. Das photoakustische Nachweisverfahren erwies sich als geeignet fr den Ethylennachweis in Pflanzen mit sehr geringer Ethylenproduktion.
24126801|This work studied the effect of the renovation of the fruiting shoots after harvest on the reproductive behaviour of low-chilling peach trees cultivated in the central-east area of the province of Santa Fe (Argentina). After the harvest period, one group of plants was left unpruned (NP, control), while a second group of plants was pruned (P) by heading back or thinning out their bearing shoots. P did not affect flower density, fruit set and fruit load per plant at the next spring, but it significantly changed the distribution of fruits in the canopy, increasing the proportion of those located in the intermediate stratum of the tree (+ 10 to 40 %). P significantly reduced fruit size at the beginning of the fruit growth period, but the differences became insignificant at harvest, which was delayed three days by the pruning treatment. Fruit yield per tree was not significantly affected by summer pruning. Therefore, this cultural practice can be recommended in order to extend the pruning period of low chilling peach trees.
24126461|Micropropagated and vegetative (by rhizome cuttings) propagated plants of Christmas rose (Helleborus niger L.) were tested for their responses to the inoculation with microorganisms in order to optimize root growth and development. In our experiment, plants were inoculated with arbuscular endomycorrhizal fungi or/and Agrobacterium radiobacter. The investigation indicated that inoculation with A. radiobacter had significantly positive effect on growth and development of plants multiplicated by in vitro techniques as compared to the dual inoculation. This study indicates that, biotization can be beneficial to plant growth in in vitro plant production systems but inocula have to be carefully selected for this purpose.
24126636|The effects of five VAM fungi (Glomus etunicatum, Glomus caledonium, Glomus darum, Glomus mosseae, and mixed inoculum) on the nutritional status of four grapevine rootstocks (420 A, 41 B, 1103 P, and 'Rupestris du Lot') were investigated. One-year-old grapevine rootstock cuttings were rooted in perlite and transferred to black polyethylene bags filled with fumigated growing medium. A 40 g mycorrhizal soil band was used for each inoculation. The percentage of VAM inoculation, leaf area, N, P, K, and total sucrose contents of the leaves were determined. Ten months after inoculation, grapevine rootstocks were colonized by the VAM fungi at frequencies ranging from 47.0 to 64.1 %. Inoculations with G. etunicatum and G. darum significantly increased the leaf areas of 41 B, 420 A, and 1103 P rootstocks. The VAM fungi increased leaf P, but not N and K concentrations. Leaf total sucrose concentrations of the grapevine rootstocks were increased two- to four -fold with certain inoculums compared with the control.
24126466|Grey mould, caused by Botrytis cinerea, is the main reason of decay in harvested strawberries. Acetic acid (AA) vapour treatment considerably inhibits the growth of B. cinerea. For practical application, it is a prerequisite that antimicrobial treatments are gentle and guarantee the maintenance of internal quality, and fruit odour and flavour. Previous studies found indications that the odour of strawberries was affected by AA fumigation. Therefore, a panel test was performed to evaluate the conditions when strawberries were affected by AA treatments. For this purpose, fruit were fumigated with different AA concentrations (0,2 and 4 mg l-1) and stored for different times (2 and 26 h) in boxes wrapped with perforated plastic film. Concomitant with the sensory tests, mass losses and stiffness of fruit as well as their contents of soluble sugars (glucose, fructose, and sucrose), titratable acidity, vitamin C and total osmotic substances were determined. AA treatment of strawberries resulted in significantly increased water losses leading to fruit that are less stiff. While the soluble sugar or acid contents of fruit were not affected by AA fumigation, this treatment diminished the increase in vitamin C generally observed during storage. Strawberries did not show significant differences in flavour, independent of the AA concentration and storage time. However, members of a consumer panel noticed a significant change in odour even at an AA concentration of 2 mg l-1. The perception of unpleasant fruit odour increased during storage, though differences were not statistically significant compared with the results of the initial evaluation. In conclusion, AA vapour fumigation is not a suitable technique for strawberry disinfection.
24126451|Fundamental features, achievements, and special problems of plant/crop growth and development in the emergence phase are reviewed to provide a base for modelling, which will be reviewed in part VIb.
24126509|The effects of the application of indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) and 1,4-diaminobutane (putrescine) on the rooting and bud retention of cuttings from 'Tonda di Giffoni', 'Tonda Gentile delle Langhe', 'Daria' and 'Tonda Romana' Italian hazelnut cultivars has been investigated. Semi-hardwood stems were collected in July from the canopy and cut at every third node; the cuttings from the apical and basal portions of the stem were treated separately with IBA 1000 mg L-1, IBA 1000 mg L-1 combined with putrescine 1600 mg L-1, IBA 1500 mg L-1, IBA 2000 mg L-1. The cuttings were then placed on a planting bench for 60 d under mist. The presence of callus and the rooting, bud retention, number of roots per rooted cutting and mean root length were recorded. The dead cuttings and live cuttings without roots were also counted. The rooting ability resulted to be influenced by genotype, hormonal dosage and cutting diameter. The application of IBA 1000 mg L-1, IBA 1000 mg L-1 with putrescine and IBA 1500 mg L-1 increased the rooting percentage in 'Tonda di Giffoni', 'Tonda Gentile delle Langhe' and 'Daria', but different responses and percentages of bud retention were observed. 'Tonda di Giffoni' showed the highest percentages of rooting and bud retention, while 'Tonda Gentile Romana' showed poor rooting, even under the hormone treatments. The results have shown that IBA promotes rooting in hazelnut cuttings, but there is also a significant effect on bud retention in relation to the hormone concentration. In general, the use of basal cuttings from vigorous stems, together with treatments with the lowest dose of IBA able to induce rooting, is recommended to reduce bud abscission.
24126477|Plant growth regulators as well as sowing density are one of the most important factors affecting yield and metabolite formation of medicinal plants. A three-year field experiment examining the effects of two sowing densities (15  3 cm and 15  5 cm) and foliar application of growth regulators on root yield and ginsenoside content at American ginseng (Panax quinuefolius L.) was conducted. In mid-June of the 1st and 2nd year of growth, various growth regulators were evaluated against a control spray of water only: B-Nine 85 SP, Pommit Extra 110 SL and Arbostim 10 SL. The growth regulators tested significantly affected plant population, root weight and accumulation of root ginsenosides. Foliar applications of Pommit Extra and B-Nine during the first and second year, especially at lower densities, increased root weight, whereas Arbostim decreased them. Foliar application of all growth regulators tested (particularly of Pommit Extra and Arbostim) increased total root ginsenoside content after three year growth. Plant grown at higher densities (15  3 cm) contained relatively higher amounts of ginsenosides. Spraying American ginseng plants with Pommit Extra or B-Nine significantly increase yield of roots and ginsenosides content.
24126628|The aim of this study was to examine the effect of CO2 concentrations on diurnal carbon dioxide exchange rates (CER) including periods of high daytime temperatures in cut roses. Climatic conditions typical of winter as well as summer production were included. At a photon flux density (PFD) of 225 mol m-2 s-1 artificial light supplied 20 hours day-1 (winter production) a six-hour increase in temperature from 20 to 32 C had a minor effect on the CER when the CO2 concentration was maintained at 800 mol mol-1 CO2, while the CER decreased by 75 % when the CO2 concentration dropped to 370 mol mol-1. Under high light intensity typical of summer conditions (800 mol m-2 s-1 PFD), the CER was around 60 % higher at 800 pmol mol-1 CO2/32 C (simulating a closed greenhouse) as compared to 370 mol mol-1 CO2/22 C (simulating a ventilated greenhouse). In an experiment in summer daylight, the night temperature was 15 C and increased by 2.8 C per 100 mol m-2 s-1 PFD to a maximum of around 32 C. The CER was measured in two plant stands, one at 370 and the other at 800 mol mol-1 CO2. The overall effect over 17 days showed a significant correlation between the CER and the PFD (r2 = 0.74). Increasing the CO2 concentration from 370 to 800 mol mol-1 CO2 increased the CER by around 50 % during a six-hour period when the temperature reached 32 C. Due to the lack of any CO2 effect during morning and evening (lower temperatures), the overall diurnal CO2 effect was only 15 %. The results are discussed in relation to controlling the greenhouse climate in traditional greenhouses in winter as well as in closed greenhouses with internal cooling systems in summer.
24126140|Axillary buds of nodal sections from 2-year old trees of Gomortega keule (Mol.) Baillon, 'Queule', 'Keule', (Family: Gomortegaceae) were induced to sprout and developed many shoots in presence of 0.54 M naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and 4.44 M benzylaminopurine (BA) in a liquid WP-medium (Lloyd and McCown 1980) within a period of 2-3 weeks. After transfer to a medium containing 22.2 M BA, each new single node section of about 0.5 cm initiated numerous adventitious shoots; alternatively, roots were formed when these explants were transferred to a medium containing 2.95, 12.3 or 24.6 M indolebutyric acid (IBA). Root formation took place in presence of 24.6 M IBA in approx. 46 % of the sub-cultured nodal segments after a period of 3 months, leading to plantlets. Regeneration response was restricted to the sprouts of axillary buds; other explant-types tested, i.e. petioles, leaf, and internodal sections showed callus formation only and no other responses. In Achselknospen von Nodienexplantaten 2 Jahre alter Bumen von Gomortega keule (Mol.) Baillon, 'Queule', 'Keule', (Familie: Gomortegaceae) wurde die Sprossbildung induziert. In einem flssigen WP-Medium (Lloyd and McCown 1980) mit 54 M Naphthylessigsure (NAA) und 4.44 M Benzylaminopurin (BA) wurden innerhalb von 23 Wochen zahlreiche Sprosse gebildet. Nach dem Umsetzen auf ein Medium mit 22.2 M BA entwickelte jedes neue 0.5 cm groe Nodienexplantat zahlreiche Sprosse. Wurzeln wurden gebildet, wenn es auf einem Medium mit 2.95, 12.3 oder 24.6 M Indolbuttersure (IBA) kultiviert wurde. Annhernd 46 % der Nodienexplantate aus der Unterkultur bildeten nach 3 Monaten auf Medium mit 24.6 M IBA Wurzeln und entwickelten sich zu Pflnzchen. Eine Regeneration fand nur bei Sprossen aus Achselknospen statt, die anderen untersuchten Explantate wie Blattstiele, Bltter und Internodien reagierten nur mit Kallusbildung.
24126648|Germination and early growth (21 days) of Chinese cabbage (.Brassica pekinensis (Lour.) Rupr.) were investigated under controlled and standardized conditions using 20 peats from different countries and decomposition degrees. As control, a commercially available growing media for propagation was used. In the peats, some chemical and physical properties as well as CO2-evolution were determined. Differences in germination between the substrates appeared only in the early stage but not at the end. After 21 days, only seven peats had lesser shoot growth compared to the control, while root growth was reduced for 16 out of 20 peats up to 70 %. Apart from P in plants growing on the peat with worst root growth, N-, P-, and K-concentration in the dry matter of shoots was not smaller compared to the control; partly N- and K-concentrations were higher. It turned out that none of the usually analyzed chemical and physical parameters could explain root and shoot growth satisfactorily. Instead, the CO2-evolution from the microbial activity in the peats in combination with air volumes was a better indicator for the root growth of the seedlings, though not for all peats. Reasons and consequences are discussed.
24126111|The aim of this study was to examine the effect of 50, 100, 150 and 200 (mol m-2 s-1 photon flux densities (PFD), supplied daily, every second, third or fourth day, on growth and flowering of pot roses, Kalanchoe blossfeldiana and Begonia  hiemalis. The 16 different light treatments gave photosynthetic active radiation (PAR) ranging from a mean of 0.9 to 14.4 mol m-2 day-1. Increasing the PFD from the lowest to the highest level or increasing the lighting frequency from every fourth day to every day gradually reduced the time until flowering in all three species. Plant dry weight and mean growth rate per day were increased when the PFD was increased from 50 to 150 mol m-2 s-1, while a further increase to 200 mol m-2 s-1 had no effect irrespective of lighting frequency. The mean light utilization, defined as dry weight produced per plant per mol m-2 day-1, was increased by decreasing the PFD or lighting frequency. It was concluded that low daily PAR during 13 days could not be compensated for by high PAR during the other days. In order to obtain good plant growth, a sufficient level of PAR must be applied daily. Ziel dieser Untersuchung war, die Wirkung einer Photonenflussdichte (PFD) von 50, 100, 150 und 200 (mol m-2 s-1, die tglich bzw. jeden zweiten, dritten oder vierten Tag verabreicht wurde, auf das Wachstum und die Blte von Topfrosen, Kalanchoe blossfeldiana und Begonia  hiemalis zu prfen. Die 16 unterschiedlichen Lichtbehandlungen erbrachten im Mittel 0.9 bis 14.4 mol m-2 day-1 photosynthetisch aktive Bestrahlung (PAR). Die Erhhung der PFD vom geringsten zum hchsten Wert oder der Belichtungshufigkeit von jeden vierten Tage auf tglich, reduzierten die Dauer bis zur Blte bei allen drei Arten. Das Trockengewicht und die durchschnittliche Wachstumsrate stiegen an, wenn die PFD von 50 auf 150 mol m-2 s-1 erhht wurde; allerdings blieb eine weiter Erhhung auf 200 mol m-2 s-1, unabhngig von der Belichtungshufigkeit, ohne Wirkung. Die mittlere Lichtverwertung, definiert als gebildetes Trockengewicht pro Pflanze und mol m-2 day-1, erhhte sich mit abnehmender PFD oder Belichtungshufigkeit. Daraus kann gefolgert werden, dass geringe tgliche PAR whrend 13 Tagen, nicht durch hohe PAR whrend der brigen Tage kompensiert werden kann. Um gutes Pflanzenwachstum zu erzielen, muss tglich eine ausreichende PAR verabreicht werden.
24126815|In this study, Phalaenopsis 'Mukalla' and 'Malaga' were grown in growth chambers at low irradiance (LI): 50 mol m-2 s-1, moderate irradiance (MI): 125 mol m-2 s-1 and high irradiance (HI): 200 mol m-2 s-1 for 16 h daily (8 h darkness) at constant high temperatures (28 C) during the vegetative growth phase. The aim was to study growth rate and carbohydrate levels of vegetative plants and verify if the irradiance during vegetative growth phase can cause after-effects on the reproductive growth of Phalaenopsis. Here we show that the growth rate was significantly increased and the 6th leaf appeared 6-7 weeks earlier under MI and HI compared to LI in 'Malaga' and 'Mukalla'. Due to the faster leaf appearance rate the total production time was reduced by 50 days. An increased content of soluble carbohydrates (sucrose, glucose and fructose) in vegetative source leaves was measured in 'Malaga' with increased irradiance but 'Mukalla' contained similar levels of carbohydrates regardless of the irradiance. At the 6th leaf stage the plants were transferred to cooling for flower initiation (18 C) and finishing phase (21 C) until flowering to study the plants ability to produce multiple inflorescences, differences in inflorescence development and morphology. 'Mukalla', which often produces multiple inflorescences, developed similar number of flower stems irrespective of the irradiance during vegetative growth and negligible after-effects were found on time from cooling to visible inflorescence. 'Malaga', which has difficulty producing multiple inflorescences, initiated fewer flower stems when the vegetative growth phase was performed under HI compared to LI or MI. 'Malaga' also developed shorter and thinner inflorescence with fewer branches and flowers when grown under LI during vegetative growth phase compared to MI and HI. A positive relationship was found between the carbohydrate content in source leaves at the start of cooling and time to visible inflorescence (VI) in 'Malaga' but no such effects were detected in 'Mukalla'. In conclusion, by increasing the irradiance from 50 mol m-2 s-1 to 125 mol m-2 s-1 during the vegetative growth phase the total production time was reduced extensively mainly by reducing the vegetative growth phase. The irradiance during vegetative growth phase can induce after-effects on the number of inflorescences per plant, time from cooling to VI, and on inflorescence morphology but the effect was hybrid dependent.
24126512|We determined the critical nitrogen (N) level in fieldgrown Curcuma alismatifolia Gagnep. by applying N at a rate of 3.75, 7.5, 15, 30, and 60 g N plant-1 as urea. Plant growth and N critical levels were determined 105 d after planting (flowering stage). To establish critical N levels in plant tissue, the relationship between rhizome yield and the N concentrations in the first fully expanded leaf from the bottom of 1st order shoots as investigated. The rate of N application had a significant effect on growth, plant dry weight, leaf N concentrations, and leaf chlorophyll content. Leaf N concentrations were similar for all treatments up to 30 g N plant-1, but increased when N was applied at 60 g N plant-1. Rhizome yields increased with increasing leaf N up to about 11.5 % N, but were relatively constant at a higher leaf N. The critical leaf N level response to 90 % of the maximum yield was 1.51 %. Most N concentrations in the various tissues increased with increasing N supply. The method for determining critical N levels provides an accurate description of the relationship between leaf N and rhizome yield and may be used by growers to predict the N requirement of Curcuma plants.
24126171|Nerium oleander seedlings were irrigated with untreated locally available water and 70 mM salt water in greenhouse conditions to study the effect of the drench application of 30 mg paclobutrazol (PBZ) per plant on the salt stress response. PBZ improved the development of oleander in the saline irrigation condition by reducing leaf salt symptoms, reducing defoliation and limiting, in relative terms, the reduction of root dry weight and leaf area that normally results from salinity. However, the retardant effects of salinity and PBZ on development were additive, and the joint application produced a substantial reduction in plant development. Although salinity reduced the relative chlorophyll content of leaves, PBZ maintained it in the same conditions. PBZ application reduced the Na+ content in stem and roots, and CP content in leaves, stem, and roots. In the saline treatment, the salt content of the leaching water increased when plants were treated with PBZ, because it reduced the availability of saline ions in the medium. These findings suggest that PBZ reduced saline stress symptoms in stressed oleander plants by reducing the uptake and accumulation of harmful Na+ and Cl- ions by plant tissues. Salinity reduced both the relative water content and water potential, but maintained turgor potential in PBZ-treated and non-treated plants as a consequence of osmotic adjustment. In saline conditions, PBZ also promoted a process of osmotic adjustment, probably through the accumulation of organic osmotic compounds. Nerium oleander Smlinge wurden entweder mit unbehandeltem, lokal verfugbarem Wasser oder mit 70 mM Salzwasser unter Gewchshausbedingungen bewssert, um den Effekt einer Tropfbewsserung mit 30 mg Paclobutrazol (PBZ) pro Pflanze auf die Salzstressreaktion zu untersuchen. PBZ verbesserte die Entwicklung von Oleander unter Salzwasserbedingungen durch eine Verminderung der Salzsymptome an Blttern, einer Reduktion des Laubverlusts sowie eine relative Begrenzung der Verminderung des Wurzeltrockengewichts und der Blattflche, welche normalerweise bei hohem Salzgehalt auftritt. Dennoch wirkten die Salz- und PBZ bedingten Hemmungseffekte additiv, so dass insgesamt eine betrchtliche Reduktion der Pflanzenentwicklung resultierte. Obwohl der erhhte Salzgehalt den relativen Chlorophyllgehalt der Bltter herabsetzte, wurde dieser durch die PBZ-Behandlung auf gleichem Niveau gehalten. Die PBZ-Behandlung reduzierte den Na+-Gehalt in Stamm und Wurzeln und den Cl-Gehalt in Blttern, Stamm und Wurzeln. Im Falle der Salzbewsserung erhhte sich der Salzgehalt des Drnagewassers in PBZ behandelten Pflanzen auf Grund einer Herabsetzung der Ionenverfgbarkeit im Medium. Unsere Beobachtungen deuten darauf hin, dass PBZ die Salzstresssymptome in gestressten Oleanderpflanzen durch eine Reduktion der Aufnahme und Akkumulation von schdigenden Na+ und Cl- Ionen durch das Pflanzengewebe vermindert. Der erhhte Salzgehalt reduzierte sowohl den relativen Wassergehalt als auch das Wasserpotential, whrend das Turgorpotential in PBZ behandelten und -unbehandelten Pflanzen als Folge eines osmotischen Ausgleichs konstant blieb. Unter Salzwasserbedingungen frderte PBZ auch den Prozess des osmotischen Ausgleichs, mglicherweise durch die Akkumulation von organischen osmotischen Bestandteilen.
24126226|Sampling strategies were evaluated to select for a primary core collection of peach (Prunus persica (L.) Batsch.) that would be the representative of the base collection of peach cultivars at the Beijing's National Peach Germplasm Resources Repository. The optimal sampling strategy was established based on the coverage of morphological and agronomic characters in 18 taxonomic groups. In order to determine the most representative core collection, we used a simulation approach to identify the optimal sampling scheme. Nine entire sampling ratios from 10 % to 90 % were tested. The sampling scheme was conducted at two levels, first to divide the collection into biologically relevant groups and then to determine the appropriate core selections within groups. The results indicated that 10 % was the appropriate entire sampling ratio from the base collection. The optimal sampling scheme was to divide all the accessions into different variety groups, and then determine the sampling proportion within groups based on its genetic diversity (G) using a random sampling method. Using this sampling strategy, a primary core collection with 56 accessions was selected from a base collection of 558 accessions of different peach cultivars. The primary core collection represented 99.49 % of the ratio of phenotype retained (RPR) of the base collection, and its index of genetic diversity (I) was 0.63, which was significantly higher than 0.59 of the base collection. The evaluation results indicated that the primary core collection was able to represent the initial germplasm collection in genetic diversity and heterogeneity.
24126212|Prohexadione-Ca enables vegetative growth in pome fruits to be controlled. Benefits for the growers consist in reduced needs for summer and dormant pruning and improved efficiency of crop protection. Fruit yield and/or fruit quality are, as a general trend, slightly increased. Most likely, this is the result of modified source-sink relations and increased light intensities in central parts of large trees. Providing that good horticultural practice is exercised, constant and uniform fruit production can, long-term, be expected. However, care has to be taken to avoid too high dosages particularly in pear trees, since this may lead to reductions in return bloom. Mit Prohexadion-Ca kann bei Kernobst das vegetative Wachstum kontrolliert werden. Die Vorteile fr die Anwender bestehen in einem reduzierten Aufwand fr Sommer- und Winterschnitt sowie in einer gesteigerten Effizienz von Pflanzenschutzmanahmen. Fruchtertrag und -qualitt werden im Trend gefrdert. Dies ist wahrscheinlich auf vernderte Source-Sink-Verhltnisse sowie auf eine erhhte Lichtintensitt im Inneren grokroniger Bume zurck zu fhren. Bei guter gartenbaulicher Praxis kann langfristig ein konstanter und gleichmiger Fruchtertrag erwartet werden. Insbesondere bei Birnen ist jedoch eine zu hohe Dosis an Wirkstoff zu vermeiden, da es sonst zu einer Reduzierung der Blhintensitt im Folgejahr kommen kann.
24126227|The genetic variation among sports and clones of Vitis vinifera cv. 'Pinot' cultivars ('Pinot noir', 'Pinot gris', and 'Pinot blanc') was analysed utilizing 375 AFLP-PCR markers. Thirty two 'Pinot' genotypes of differing origin, age and phenotype were analysed to assay genetic variation among 'Pinot' clones and to look after a clonal "genetic structure" present within the selections. Results showed that the degree of genetic similarity within the majority of clones was high (99 %), though a minor group of 'Pinot noir' clones and one 'Pinot gris' clone exhibited higher variation up to 5 %. The genetic variation as indicated in molecular diversity indices were highest in the 'Pinot noir' group (0,03620,0192), decreased in the 'Pinot gris' group (0,02300,0145) and was lowest in the 'Pinot blanc' group (0,00380,0031). No colour-type clustering of 'Pinot' clones or a berry colour linked marker could be assessed. Unique markers serving as pre-requisite to individually fingerprint clones were found in all 'Pinot' cultivars.
24126493|The occurrence, geographical distribution and rate of incidence of Grapevine fanleaf virus (GFLV) were surveyed in 44 vineyards and nurseries in different regions of Iran. GFLV infection was confirmed by mechanical transmission onto herbaceous hosts, DAS-ELISA and IC-RT-PCR. Two thermal conditions, as well as meristem culture were used to produce virus-free material. Results confirmed the presence of GFLV in Bavanat, Shiraz, Jahrom, Maymand, Urmia, Karaj and Naghadeh. Both sanitation protocols significantly reduce the level of GFLV infection, however, a combination of meristem culture and thermotherapy produced 100 % virus-free material from the cultivars 'Bidaneh Sefid' and 'Shahroodi'.
24126245|The reduction of labour costs as well as the improvement of the work situation are future goals for the horticultural sector. Hence it is necessary to objectively evaluate existing and new work systems, but so far an appropriate method regarding economic and ergonomie criteria is lacking. The study of human motions seems promising. The necessary effort concerning time and motion to fulfil a work task can be described by motion data, and in consequence a 3-D-motion analysis system in combination with an analysing software is used to gain complex information about different work processes. The digital recording of the motion data allows a large sample size and hence is an excellent basis for statistics. The wide range of descriptive parameters gained in one experiment allows a better data interpretation compared to existing methods for rationalization or ergonomie evaluation. Two different experimental settings are described to point out the wide range of application and the combined consideration of ergonomie and economic measures. In experiment 1 the influence of varying machine parameters on human performance is investigated. The determined variation within the performance data is explained by further interpretation of the motion data. Similar to the idea of the REFA performance rate, inter-personal variation plays an important role for the comparison of data and is explained by descriptive parameters like speed of movement, movement efficiency or targeted precision. In experiment 2 the emphasis is put on ergonomics, evaluating an unusual seated work place that differs from ordinary table-stool-systems. Due to the unusual setting there exist no applicable ergonomie workplace recommendations and in consequence new indicators have to be defined. Quantitative differences between the two seat constructions are presented and allow a final judgment.
24126522|The objective of this study was to evaluate the genetic diversity and relationships among 6 new improved lines, one spring landrace and 6 varieties of winter chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.). To achieve this, 16 polymorphic simple sequence repeats (SSRs) were used in the DNA analysis. A total of 554 bands were generated with an average of 2.16 detectable bands/primer/genotype. The within-genotype genetic dissimilarity coefficient ranged from 13.0 to 77.7. Cluster analysis indicated that most genotypes could be clustered into four groups according to their geographic origin, selection objectives or pedigree. Moreover, morphological analyses generated clusters similar to those generated by molecular studies. Indeed, a comparison of morphological and molecular data using the Mantel test showed a highly significant correlation (r = 0.554, P < 10-5), indicating that SSR primers used in this study likely cover a vast area of the chickpea genome or might flank chromosome regions that control quantitative traits or resistance to Ascochyta blight or wilt. This also means that different combinations of alleles might reproduce similar morphological traits. In this sense, the two methods showed a low degree of variation among analysed genotypes, indicating the narrow genetic base of Tunisian chickpea germplasm. It also showed that the Tunisian chickpea collection should be increased by increasing diversity by importing new genotypes or by inducing mutations which could be used for future breeding programs.
24126447|Shoot and fruit growths were investigated in two peach cultivars, a medium maturing ('Big Top') and an early maturing ('Alexandra'). Experiments were achieved on fruit-bearing shoots (FBS) isolated from the tree by girdling, thinned to one or three fruits and with a steady number of shoots. This shoot growth was either maintained free or stopped by removing their apical bud. The girdled FBS were located on trees subjected to two thinning ('Big Top') and three pruning ('Alexandra') treatments. On the girdled FBS, increasing the number of fruits, on the one hand, and stopping shoots growth, on the other hand, stimulated shoot and fruit growths, respectively. These results show that fruit growth does not limit shoot growth but at the opposite contributes to improve it, and that available assimilates are preferentially oriented to shoot growth over fruit growth. By contrast, on the whole tree, shoot growth was found limited under a higher fruit load. A higher fruit load also limited fruit growth and soluble solids content on the whole tree, in similar proportions than those of the girdled FBS. Compared to light pruning, severe pruning induced higher shoot and fruit growths on the whole tree and on the girdled FBS. Fruit growth and quality at maturity are shown highly dependant on the leaf-to-fruit ratio which vary with thinning and pruning intensities.
24126379|The occurrence of position effects, i.e. topophysis, was tested for two new clones (29 and 112) of Rotheca myricoides (Hochst.) Steane & Mabb. 'Ugandensis' (syn. Clerodendrum ugandense Prain). The position from which cuttings are taken from of the mother plant can affect the later vegetative and generative development of the plants, e.g. partly reduce their extensive longitudinal growth. Three different kinds of cuttings were used during propagation in two sets of experiments: tip cuttings of vegetative branches, stem cuttings of vegetative branches and stem cuttings of generative branches. Their height, branching and flowering development was assessed in periodic intervals over a period of four months. Compared to 112, clone 29 displayed a significantly reduced longitudinal growth and a significantly better rate of branching was displayed. Furthermore, the results for the vegetative tip cuttings of both clones showed a significant decrease in height (610 cm) compared to the stem cuttings from vegetative branches combined with an increase in branching (12.5 branches) compared to both other types of cuttings. Apart from choosing the appropriate clone, using vegetative tip cuttings can therefore be a partly effective method to reduce the extensive height and improve the branching during commercial production of Rotheca myricoides 'Ugandensis'. With regard to flowering, no significant differences between the two clones and the three types of cuttings were found in the statistical analysis.
24126797|Reducing mowing without compromising quality are the main goals of turf managers. Applications of the trinexapac-ethyl (TE) [4-(cyclopropyl--hydroxym-ethylene)-3,5-dioxocyclohexane carboxylic acid ethyl-ester] can restrict leaf growth and hence reduce clipping production of warm-season turfgrass species. The objective was to: study the effects of seasonal TE application on vertical growth suppression and clipping production of warm-season turfgrass species: Cynodon dactylon (L.) Pers., Buchlo dactyloides Engelm., Zoysia japonica Steudel, Paspalum notatum (Flgge), Paspalum vaginatum Swartz, and Eremochloa ophiurioides (Munro) Hack in the Mediterranean region. Applications of TE to the nineteen seeded-type cultivars were made to fully established turf plots at a 0.38 kg active ingredient (a.i.) ha-1 rate in summer or fall. Application schedule included a single application, followed by zero or one sequential application at 4-wk. Overall, single TE treatment in summer suppressed the vertical growth up to 8-wk and reduced the clipping production up to 72 %. The sequential summer application extended the suppression up to 5-wk. The mean clipping yield were 21 and 39 % lower than the control throughout the 15-week in summer; and 65 and 67 % lower in fall with single and sequential TE applications, respectively. Results support the use of sequential application of TE for extended growth suppression in summer. Suppressing the growth and accelerating dormancy of warm-season turfgrasses, the fall TE application may aid in transition to over-seeded cool-season grasses.
24126165|Thirteen commercially available substrates of different composition are described concerning particle density, total pore space, water as well as air capacity, available water, particle size distribution. Particle density, total pore space and water and air capacity were determined according to DIN EN 13039 and 13041 (2000), available water according to Gabriels and VERDONCK (1992). Particle size distribution was carried out according to RHP (Wever and VRHAGEN 1995). Particle densities were between 1,69 and 2,19 [kg L-1] depending on the composition. Three from thirteen substrates had an air capacity smaller than 10% [v/v], three higher than 15% [v/v], seven ranged between 10 and 15 % [v/v]. The amount of available water was smaller than 30 % [v/v] for one substrate, between 35 and 40 % [v/v] for four substrates and between 40 and 48 % [v/v] for eight substrates. Most particles (6393 %) occurred in the fractions <4,0 mm. Within this fraction in most cases most particles were smaller than 1 mm. There is a trend of decreasing air capacity with increasing amount of available water, but r2 is very small (0,48). The same is true for the correlation between particles <1 mm and air capacity (r2=0,46). Reasons for this are discussed. Fr 13 im Handel erhltliche Kultursubstrate mit unterschiedlicher Zusammensetzung wurden Partikeldichte, Gesamtporenvolumen, Wasserund Luftkapazitt, verfgbares Wasser und die Korngrenverteilung ermittelt. Partikeldichte, Gesamtporenvolumen, Wasser- und Luftkapazitt wurden nach DIN EN 13039 bzw. 13041 (2000), das verfgbare Wasser nach Gabriels und Verdonck (1992) bestimmt. Die Korngrenverteilung wurde nach der Methode der RHP (Wever and Verhagen 1995) gemessen. Die Partikeldichten lagen  in Abhngigkeit von der Zusammensetzung der Substrate  zwischen 1,69 und 2,19 [kg L-1]. Drei der 13 Substrate wiesen eine Luftkapazitt unter 10% [v/v] auf, fr drei Substrate lag sie ber 15 % [v/v], fr sieben Substrate zwischen 10 und 15 % [v/v]. Ein Substrat hatte weniger als 30 % [v/v] verfgbares Wasser, fr vier Substrate lag der Wert zwischen 35 und 40 % [v/v], fr acht Substrate zwischen 40 und 48 % [v/v]. Die meisten Partikel (6393 %) kamen in dem Korngrenbereich <4 mm vor. Innerhalb dieser Fraktion lag bei den meisten Substraten der grte Anteil bei einem Korndurchmesser <1 mm. Die Luftkapazitt nimmt mit steigendem Anteil an verfgbarem Wasser tendenziell ab, doch das Bestimmtheitsma ist sehr klein (r2=0,48). Das trifft auch fr den Zusammenhang zwischen Luftkapazitt und Anteil an Partikeln <1 mm zu (r2=0,46). Grnde dafr werden diskutiert.
24126676|In horticultural pot plant production with ebb/flood irrigation, denitrification occurrs following irrigation events. It was the aim of the study to identify the main layers of denitrifying activity in the potting medium of ornamental plants. Thus, redox potential was measured at the same time as denitrification N emissions from pots of Pelargonium zonale grown in a peat/coir medium. Denitrification was measured using the acetylene inhibition technique. To investigate the redox potential, in each pot, three electrodes were positioned at 1, 3 and 5 cm distance from the bottom, respectively. After flood irrigation, N emissions increased at the same time as some electrodes per pot indicated a reduction of the redox potential. All electrodes reflecting a decrease in redox potential were positioned close to the pot bottom, i.e. in the peat layer with the highest water content after flood irrigation. However, not all electrodes in the lowest substrate layer showed a decrease in redox potential. It is suggested that this might be related to uneven availability of easily decomposable carbohydrates. It was concluded that in the applied cultivation system transient oxygen deficiency and denitrification occurred only in the substrate layer at the pot bottom.
24126668|Spring frost often reduces the yield because of damaged flowers or flower parts. The contents of primary metabolites in both the flowers (whole flower) that were damaged by frost and the undamaged flowers (control) were investigated in the apple cultivar 'Idared' and the pear cultivar 'Passe crassane'. The contents of carbohydrates (glucose, fructose, sucrose and sorbitol) and organic acids (malic, citric, shikimic and fumaric) in flowers were determined by High Performance Liquid Chromatography. The results showed higher contents of glucose, fructose, sucrose, sorbitol and total sugars in the flowers, which were damaged by frost (completely or the vital part of the flower  ovary). This was the case in apple flowers as well as in pear flowers. The glucose/fructose ratio remained unchanged whether or not the flowers were damaged by frost. The content of individual and total organic acids in pear flowers was not influenced by flower frost.
24126135|The influence of seed germination conditions on the regenerative ability has not been investigated. The present study shows that the germination rate itself is affected significantly by light level and salt concentration in the germination medium. An increase in salt concentration resulted in reduced germination percentage. High light in combination with either 0 % or low levels of salts produced a significantly higher number of germinated seedlings reaching up to 89 %. The morphology of seedlings and the subsequent regenerative ability of hypocotyl and cotyledon expiants were also influenced by those conditions. High light in combination with 0 % or low salt concentrations provided during germination produced significantly higher numbers of adventitious shoots on hypocotyls when compared to all other treatments. This is the first report on the influence of seed germination conditions on the regenerative ability of hypocotyl or cotyledon expiants. Der Einfluss der Keimbedingungen auf die Regenerationsfhigkeit von Smlingsexplantaten wurde bisher noch nicht untersucht. Die vorliegende Arbeit zeigt, dass die Keimrate signifikant durch die Belichtungsstrke und die Salzkonzentration des Keimmediums beeinflusst wird. Ein hherer Salzgehalt im Nhrmedium reduzierte die Keimrate. Hohe Lichtintensitten in Kombination mit geringen Mengen an Nhrstoffen oder ganz ohne Salze fhrten zu signifikant hheren Keimraten (bis zu 89 %). Die Keimbedingungen beeinflussten auch die Morphologie der Smlinge und die Regenerationsfhigkeit aus Hypokotyl- und Kotyledonenexplantaten. Hohe Lichtintensitten und geringe Salzgehalte oder gnzlich fehlende Salze fhrten verglichen mit allen anderen Varianten zu signifikant hheren Mengen an Adventivsprossen bei Hypokotylexplantaten. Diese Untersuchungen sind die ersten, die einen Einfluss der Keimbedingungen auf die Regenerationsfhigkeit von Hypokotyl- oder Kotyledonenexplantaten nachweisen.
24126514|Grape is an important fruit crop with various consumptions. Classical methods of identification, based on ampelographic characterization, are not always the most accurate way due to instability of morphological characteristics under the influence of the internal and external environments. The superiority of molecular markers over ampelometry for the characterization of grape genotypes is their capability to identify the diversity at genomic level free of environmental factors. Genetic variation of 15 grape genotypes (including 7 Khorasan native grape genotypes and 8 imported genotypes from Turkmenistan) were studied based on RAPD and ISSR markers. PCR amplification of DNA by using 7 primers for RAPD analysis produced 59 bands while the same number of primers used for ISSR analysis resulted in 58 bands. "Diese bands could be scored in all genotypes. The average number of polymorphic bands per RAPD and ISSR primers was 8.4 and 8.2, respectively. The RAPD and ISSR data were combined for UPGMA cluster analysis. Dendrogram based on genetic distance (UPGMA) indicated segregation of the 15 grape genotypes into two main clusters. Turkmen genotypes formed cluster I and native Khorasan genotypes grouped in cluster II. Based on Jaccard's similarity coefficient, the highest similarity observed between the Turkmen 6 and Turkmen 8 and lowest similarity observed between Turkmen 3 and Sahebi e Rezaieh.
24126785|In attempts to produce the earliest yields of spring melons, muskmelon fields are transplanted in late winter before the last frost date. Seedlings may then be repeatedly exposed to temperatures cycling between almost freezing and optimal temperatures for weeks until the weather stabilizes. To simulate this potential cold stress possible in the field, 'Athena' Cucumis melo L. (Reticulatus Group) muskmelon seedlings were subjected to 21 C in a walk-in cooler then to 295 C in a greenhouse before field transplanting. In 1997, the durations of cold exposure were 3,6, and 9 hours which were repeated (frequency) for 1, 3, 6, and 9 days before transplanting. In 1998, duration levels were the same as in 1997 but frequencies were 3, 6, and 9 days. In both years, cold stress duration interacted with frequency, significantly reducing almost all seedling growth characteristics of muskmelon, indicating that these two stress factors are not acting independently and that they need to be considered together. Muskmelon flowering and vining were delayed significantly by increasing cold stress duration and frequency in both years but fruit set was delayed only in 1998. Muskmelon yields decreased with increasing cold stress frequency in both years but not with cold stress duration indicating that frequency was the driving factor behind the yield reduction. Therefore, muskmelon plants should not be planted early in the season without protective tunnels if there is a chance of repeated low temperature exposure. Um im Frhjahr die ersten Netzmelonen ernten zu knnen, werden die Smlinge im Sptwinter vor den letzten Frsten gepflanzt. Die Bedingungen, denen sie dann ber Wochen bis zur Wetterstabilisierung ausgesetzt sind, knnen wiederholt zwischen fast Gefrieren und Optimaltemperatur wechseln. Zur Simulation dieses potentiellen Kltestresses wurden Netzmelonen-smlinge Cucumis melo L. (Reticulatus Group) der Sorte 'Athena' in Khlrumen bei 21 C und anschlieend im Gewchshaus bei 295 C kultiviert, bevor sie auf dem Feld ausgepflanzt wurden. Im Jahr 1997 betrug die Kltedauer 3, 6 oder 9 Stunden und wurde 1, 3, 6 bzw. 9 Tage lang wiederholt. 1998 waren die Abstufungen der Kltedauer wie 1997, allerdings wurden sie 3, 6 bzw. 9 Tage wiederholt. In beiden Jahren traten Interaktionen zwischen Dauer und Wiederholungshufigkeit der Kltestressbehandlungen auf, die beinahe alle erfassten Wachstumsparameter negativ beeinflussten. Diese Ergebnisse zeigen, dass die beiden Stressfaktoren nicht unabhngig voneinander wirken und deshalb gemeinsam beurteilt werden mssen. In beiden Jahren fhrte die Zunahme von Kltestressdauer und -hufigkeit zu einer signifikanten Verzgerung der Blten- und Rankenbildung, doch zog dies nur 1998 einen verzgerten Fruchtansatz nach sich. Mit zunehmender Kltestresshufigkeit nahm die Erntemenge in beiden Jahren ab. Die Variation der Kltedauer zeigte keine entsprechende Wirkung. Das weist daraufhin, dass die Kltestresshufigkeit die Ursache fr die Mengenreduktion darstellt. Netzmelonen sollten deshalb frh in der Saison, wenn noch die Mglichkeit des wiederholten Auftretens von niedrigen Temperaturen besteht, nicht ohne schtzenden Folientunnel gepflanzt werden.
24126862|Pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) is one of the most important vegetables cultivated worldwide. Many pests and pathogens cause economic yield losses in pepper. Potato virus Y (PVY), Tomato spotted wilt virus (TSWV) and Pepper mild mottle virus (PMMoV) are considered among the most destructive viruses affecting pepper in the world. Because chemical treatments have limited success for managing PVY, TSWV and PMMoV, resistant varieties are considered to be the most effective means of controlling these viruses. In this study, resistance genes to these viruses were successfully transferred to the superior sweet Charleston pepper line 'Y-CAR' using molecular markers and biological assays. As a result, a new line which is resistant to PVY, TSWV and PMMoV was developed. The results also showed the applicability of a pyramiding strategy lor breeding multiple virus resistance in pepper.
24134267|Bioassays with tomato and lettuce seeds and three plant experiments with marigold (Tagetes erecta L.) 'Inca Gold' were conducted in the laboratory and greenhouse, respectively, in order to investigate possibilities of determining and mitigating the effects of Phytotoxins in pine tree substrate (PTS). PTS is produced by grinding loblolly pine tree (Pinus taeda L.) logs, and using as horticultural growing substrate. PTS extracts obtained with cold and hot water reduced the germination rate and radicle growth of tomato and lettuce. After the washing, an improvement was monitored for radicle length of both species. The germination index supported the data of radicle length showing a better performance after the substrate washing. Radicle growth of tomato in extracts from PTS used in a plant growth experiment was improved after leaching PTS six times. The performance of marigold plants was similar to bioassays with tomatoes and lettuce. Marigold growth was improved by pretreatments of PTS. Some of these pretreatments could be recommended for use in the manufacturing process for PTS or from growers before planting. However, the best results were shown in a commercial peat-lite substrate.
24126431|The yield of strawberry (Fragaria  ananassa Duch.) is dependent on the number of inflorescences initiated in the apical meristems of the main and branch crowns. Short-day conditions induce crown formation from the axillary buds of the main crown while long-day conditions promote runner formation. The fate of axillary buds is also affected by the plant hormone gibberellin (GA). Exogenously applied GA enhances runner formation in short daylength. Our aim was to test whether the cropping potential of strawberry could be increased by the GA biosynthesis inhibitor, prohexadione-calcium (ProCa), under northern long-day conditions. Six experiments at five different locations were carried out with 'Polka' or 'Honeoye' using ProCa concentrations of 100 and 200 mg l-1. ProCa reduced runner formation in five experiments, and increased crown branching in three experiments. Furthermore, the 200 mg l-1 ProCa treatment increased the number of inflorescences and berry yield by 650 % and 753 %, respectively. No negative effects on development or yield were observed. In conclusion, ProCa treatment of strawberry during the planting year has the potential to reduce runner development and enhance berry yield in northern long-day conditions.
24126430|Investigations of the influence of early cropping on productivity and vegetative development of newly established 'Golden Delicious'/M.9 trees were conducted during three years after planting with the aim of determining the subsequent crop load dynamics according to different initial productivity of young trees. On the basis of the rate of natural fruit drop in the second growing year, three experimental groups were established: trees with intensive fruitlet natural June drop (group A) were further adjusted to 5 fruit tree-1; medium fruitlet drop trees (group B) adjusted to 15 fruit tree-1; and low fruitlet drop trees (group C) which were hand thinned to 25 fruit tree-1. In the third growing year, the crop load was artificially thinned to 40, 60 or 80 fruit per tree. Trees of group A showed strong return bloom in the third growing year while weak flowering and low yield was observed in the fourth growing year (1128 fruit tree-1). In contrast to group A, trees of group C presented a constantly increasing yield tendency with no biennial bearing pattern: 66 flower clusters in the third growing year which were hand adjusted to 40, 60 or 80 fruit tree-1 gave nice return bloom and yield in the fourth growing year (63, 77 or 72 fruit tree-1). Trees of group B adjusted to 40 or 60 fruit tree-1 in the third growing season responded with medium return bloom and, consequently, appropriate yield in the fourth growing year, while 80 fruit tree-1 adjustments or, on non-thinned trees, decreasing yield and biennial bearing tendency was observed. Trunk circumference increase on trees with higher crop load was smaller for all three bearing groups and was in the strongest negative correlation in the second year after planting the orchard.
24126670|The objective of present study was to determine difference in ion and MDA (malondialdehyde) content of tolerant and sensitive genotypes calli grown under salinity condition. For this purpose, two tolerant and two sensitive local Turkish eggplant varieties were used. After 8 days of being cultured, callus growth of all genotypes showed a decrease in salted medium as compared to control medium. When grown in salted medium, sensitive lines produced less callus, accumulated lower K and Ca but higher Na and CI than tolerant lines. Consequently, tolerant genotypes had higher K/Na and lower Na/Ca ratios than sensitive genotypes. K/Na and Na/Ca ratios were used as parameters determining salinity tolerance in eggplant. The magnitude of lipid damage, as measured by MDA, was lower in the tolerant genotypes. MDA content of tolerant genotypes was two fold less than those of sensitive genotypes in NaCl treatment medium. MDA content of calli of the four eggplant varieties investigated in this study were also found as a significant indicator determining salt tolerant. The present results demonstrated that the response of cultured calli of eggplant to salt stress was clearly genotype specific.
24126350|Mother plants were cultivated under two separate sets of conditions to establish the impact of exposure to different levels of light intensity on the storage and rooting of Plectranthus coleoides cuttings. One set of mother plants was cultivated in a climate chamber with a photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD) of 1000 mol m-2 s-1 (Halogen HQI) for 12 h a day at a temperature of 20 C simulating southern latitudes. The other set was exposed to climatic conditions in a greenhouse with an average PPFD of 84 mol m-2 s-1 per average daylength of 10.3 h and an average temperature of 16.6 C simulating Central European conditions. Then, all cuttings were wrapped in polyethylene foil, stored for periods of 3,4, 5,6,7 or 14 d at temperatures of 1,5 or 12 C. For rhizogenese, they were inserted into a propagation substrate (white peat, perlite) and cultivated in the greenhouse at an average temperature of 20 C and an average PPFD of 88 mol m-2 s-1. Damage to shoots was influenced by preharvest light conditions. Cuttings from the climate chamber (1000 mol m-2 s-1) were particularly susceptible to a storage temperature of 5C, where they developed damaged shoots in fairly, large numbers, whereas cuttings produced in the greenhouse (84 mol m-2 s-1) were more susceptible to such damage at a storage temperature of 12 C. Cuttings from both treatments did not differ in regards to rooting percentage when they were stored at 5 or 12 C. Storage at 1 C generally resulted in a large number of decayed cuttings during the rooting period, regardless of the preharvest conditions. The experiments demonstrated that exposure to high PPFD during the cultivation of stock plants and the cutting production stage resulted in a pronounced preference of the cuttings for certain storage temperatures. Plectranthus cuttings can be easily stored for 7 d without any adverse effect on quality, but the storage and transport temperatures will have to be adapted to the conditions under which the cuttings were produced. Storage and transport temperatures for cuttings produced in southern latitudes under high PPFD should not fall below 10 C, whereas for cuttings produced under central European conditions in the winter and early spring, a storage and transport temperature of 5 C is most suitable. Um den Einfluss unterschiedlicher Lichtangebote auf Lagerung und Bewurzelung von Stecklingen von Plectranthus coleoides zu prfen, wurden Mutterpflanzen unter zwei unterschiedlichen Klimabedingungen kultiviert. Um die Bedingungen in sdlichen Breiten zu simulieren, erfolgte eine Mutterpflanzenkultur in einer Klimakammer mit einer Photonenflussdichte (PPFD) von 1000 mol m-2 s-1 (Halogen HQI) bei einer Tageslnge von 12 h und einer Temperatur von 20 C. Die zweite Mutterpflanzenkultur wurde unter Gewchshausbedingungen (durchschnittliche PPFD 84 mol m-2 s-1, Tageslnge 10,3 h, Temperatur 16,6 C) entsprechend den Bedingungen in Mitteleuropa, kultiviert. Alle Stecklinge wurden in PE-Folie verpackt, bei einer Temperatur von 1,5 bzw. 12 C ber einen Zeitraum von 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 bzw. 14 Tagen gelagert. Nach der Lagerung wurden sie in Vermehrungssubstrat (Weitorf, Perlite) gesteckt und zur Wurzelbildung im Gewchshaus bei 20 C und einer durchschnittlichen PPFD von 88 mol m-2 s-1 kultiviert. Triebspitzenschden traten in Abhngigkeit von den Lichtbedingungen auf. Stecklinge aus der Klimakammer (1000 mol m-2 s-1) reagierten bei einer Lagertemperatur von 5 C mit einem hohen Anteil geschdigter Triebspitzen, whrend bei Stecklingen aus dem Gewchshaus (84 mol m-2 s-1) gleiche Triebspitzenschden nach der Lagerung bei 12 C auftraten. Bei Lagertemperaturen von 5 und 12 C traten keine Unterschiede in der Bewurzelungsrate der Stecklinge beider Standorte auf. Die Lagertemperatur von 1 C fhrte unabhngig von den Kulturbedingungen der Mutterpflanzen zu hohen Ausfllen whrend der Bewurzelung. Durch die Untersuchungen wurde deutlich, dass eine hohe PPFD whrend der Mutterpflanzenhaltung bzw. Stecklingsproduktion zur Modifikation der Optimal-temperatur bei der Stecklingslagerung fhrt. Plectranthus-Stecklinge lassen sich ohne Qualittsverluste 7 Tage lagern, jedoch ist die Lager- und Transporttemperatur in Abhngigkeit vom Produktionsort der Stecklinge zu whlen. Wenn Stecklinge unter hoher PFD an sdlichen Standorten produziert wurden, sollte die Lager- und Transporttemperatur nicht unter 10 C liegen, whrend fr unter mitteleuropischen Bedingungen im Winterhalbjahr produzierte Stecklinge eine Lager- und Transporttemperatur von 5 C optimal ist.
24126225|After four months cold storage, frigo strawberry plants of cvs. 'Honeoye' and 'Sonata' were treated with hot tap water of 42,44,46 or 48 C for 5,10 or 20 min prior to planting in an open plastic polytunnel, and their effects on growth and yield were studied two successive years. From the two years results of marketable yield of class I fruit, treatment of 42 C for maximum 10 min is recommended as the most economic solution.
24127674|Miniature rose plantlets in the flowering stage were photoautotrophically grown on MS (Murashige and Skoog 1962) medium and subsequently exposed to 0 (control), 25, 50 or 100 mM NaCl for 14 d. The Na+ in the leaf tissues of salt stressed plantlets was enriched, resulting in proline accumulation and the degradation of total chlorophyll. Pigment degradation, chlorophyll a fluorescence diminution and net photosynthetic rate (Pn) reduction in miniature rose plantlets exposed to 100 mM NaCl were maximized when compared to the control, especially Pn reduction (77.96 % of control), leading to growth reduction. In contrast, the proline content in the salt stressed plantlets was enriched, indicating salt stress. In plants cultivated in vitro, the flowering percentage and the number of flowers per plantlet declined significantly under both 50 and 100 mM NaCl salt stress. The flowering stage of miniature rose plandets was susceptible to salt stress, the reproductive developmental process being suppressed, which may be an effective indicator for salt tolerance screening in rose genotypes.
24126214|The air permeability and light transmission of 15 screens were evaluated at the Institute of Horticultural and Agricultural Engineering, University of Hannover. The air permeability of the screens was tested by fixing each screen on a frame and placing it on an open end of a wooden box m) c(222 onnected to a wind tunnel with a fan on the other end. From the measured data, the pressure loss coefficient (Fs) of the screen was computed. The light transmission was tested with an "lbricht-sphere", while the mesh size and thread thickness were investigated under a microscope. Insect screens have a well-defined structure that is characterised by the diameter (or width) of the thread (or fibre used), and the dimensions of the pores (Bailey et al. 2003), hence the correlating pressure loss coefficient of the different insect screens was calculated. The tested screens show a clear dependence of air speed on screen loss coefficient and Reynolds number. Moreover, the flow regime depends on the Reynolds number (Re). While porous materials have Reynolds numbers Re < 1, the investigated insect screens had Reynolds numbers 3.4 < Re < 144 at air velocities up to 1.1 m s-1. The screen loss coefficient can only be expected to be constant at Reynolds numbers Re > 200. As expected, the screens with the smallest mesh size (group 1) had the highest-pressure drop, while the opposite was observed for the screens with the biggest mesh size (group 4). However, this was not the case with the screens in the other groups. Therefore, when choosing a screen, it is important to include the open area (porosity), since it contains the thickness of the threads. Screens with a larger open area should be used, because of their better air permeability. However, in order to accurately determine the open area of a screen and thereby calculate the screen's pressure drop from the air speed, the information about the mesh size and thickness of the threads must be correct. The screens with the biggest mesh size had the highest light transmission, but the screens with the smallest mesh size did not have the lowest transmission. Hence light transmission was influenced by other parameters such as the structure of the threads (wool threads) and, of course, contamination of the threads by dirt. Am Institut fr Technik in Gartenbau und Landwirtschaft wurde die Luft- und Lichtdurchlssigkeit von 15 Insektenschutznetzen bewertet. Die Luftdurchlssigkeit wurde mit einer Versuchsanlage untersucht, die aus Ventilator, Durchflussmessstrecke und Holzkasten (222 m) bestand, der an einer Seite offen war. In diese ffnung wurde das jeweilige Netz, das auf einem Rahmen befestigt wurde, geschoben. Aus den ermittelten Ergebnissen wurden die netzspezifischen Druckverlustkoeffizienten (Fs-Werte) errechnet. Die Lichtdurchlssigkeit wurde mit Hilfe einer Ulbricht-Kugel bestimmt. Zustzlich wurden die Maschenweiten und Fadenstrken der Netze unter dem Mikroskop ermittelt. Da Insektenschutznetze eine geordnete Struktur aufweisen, lassen sich mit Anstzen aus der Literatur (Bailey et al. 2003) die Druckverlustkoeffizienten berechnen. Die Strmung durch die Maschen des Netzes hngt entscheidend von der Reynoldszahl ab. Porse Materialien haben Reynoldszahlen < 1. Fr die untersuchten Netze ergeben sich Reynoldszahlen zwischen 3,4 und 144 (Luftstrmungen bis ca. 1 m s-1). In diesem Bereich ist der Druckverlustkoeffizient nicht konstant. Ab Re > 200 kann man mit konstanten Druckverlustkoeffizienten rechnen. Wie erwartet, konnte festgestellt werden, dass die Netze mit den kleinsten Maschenweiten (Gruppe 1) die hchsten Drcke und Druckverlustkoeffizienten aufweisen. Das Gegenteil trifft fr die Netze mit den grten Maschenweiten (Gruppe 4) zu. Bei den Netzen, die zwischen diesen Gruppen liegen, stimmte diese Aussage nur teilweise. Das liegt z. T. daran, dass die Angaben der Hersteller bezglich der Maschenweite nicht genau genug sind und z. B. unterschiedliche Fadenmaterialien im selben Netz (Wollfden) nicht mit angegeben werden. Es erscheint sinnvoll, die offene Flche bei der Auswahl eines Netzes mit einzubeziehen, da dort die Fadenstrke mit eingeht. So sollten Netze mit hheren Werten fr die offene Flche (Porositt) ausgewhlt werden, da diese eine bessere Luftdurchlssigkeit aufweisen. Jedoch mssen fr eine genaue Bestimmung der offenen Flche die Angaben fr die Maschenweite und Fadenstrke exakt sein. Die ist auch die Voraussetzung fr eine korrekte Berechnung des Druckverlustes in Abhngigkeit von der Strmungsgeschwindigkeit. Fr die lichtdurchlssigkeit konnte festgestellt werden, dass die Netze mit den grten Maschenweiten (Gruppe 4) die hchste Lichtdurchlssigkeit aufwiesen, jedoch die Netze mit den kleinsten Maschenweiten (Gruppe 1) nicht die geringste Lichtdurchlssigkeit besaen. So wird die Lichtdurchlssigkeit z. B. durch andere Fadenstrukturen (z. B. Wollfden), und insbesondere durch die Verschmutzung vermindert.
24126310|An efficient protocol for high frequency regeneration and Agrobacterium tumefacies mediated transformation of Broccoli (Brassica oleracea var. italica) has been developed. Hypocotyl and leaf segment explants were transferred on to MS medium supplemented with different concentrations and combinations of IAA (00.57 M) and Kinetin/BAP/Zeatin (8.922.2 M). Hypocotyl explants showed the highest regeneration potential. Maximum number of shoots (16 per explant) were obtained on MS medium supplemented with 0.57 M IAA and 22.2 M BAP. The concentrations of extracellular calcium, nitrate and ammonium nitrogen in the medium had a marked effect on regeneration. The optimal media for maximum shoot proliferation (30 per explant) contained 3 mM CaCl2, 1900 mg l-1 KN03, 825 mg l-1 (NH4)2S04, 22.2 M BAP and 0.57 M IAA. Rhizogenesis from isolated shoots was obtained on B5 medium supplemented with 2.85 M IAA. The high frequency regeneration system served as an excellent tool to establish an efficient transformation method of broccoli. Hypocotyl explants were co-cultivated with the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA 4404, containing a binary vector with the neomycin phosphotransferase (nptii) gene and a -glucuronidase (gus) gene, each under the control of a separate CaMV35S promoter. Primary selection of transformed expiants was performed on high kanamycin (100 mg l-1) containing medium for 10 days and regeneration was achieved on the optimised regeneration medium containing lower concentration (50 mg l-1) of kanamycin. The frequency of transgenic plants was calculated on the basis of GUS activity detected by histochemical X-gluc test. The effect of pre-culture and growth of bacterial culture was studied. Expiants precultured for 2-days prior to inoculation with A. tumefaciens resulted in improved transformation frequency. Bacterial cultures grown to the optical density of 2.0 resulted in the highest transformation rate (60 %). Evidence for integration of nptii gene was obtained by the PCR. All transgenic plants grew normally. The present study demonstrates the improved high frequency regeneration and transformation of B. oleracea var. italica. Es wurde fr Brokkoli (Brassica oleracea var. italica) ein effizientes Protokoll fr die hochfrequente Regeneration nach Transformation mit Agrobacterium tumefacies entwickelt. Hypokotyl- und Blattsegment-Explante wurden auf MS-Medium mit unterschiedlichen Konzentrationen und Kombinationen von IAA (0-0.57 M) und Kinetin/BAP/Zeatin (8.922.2 M) kultiviert. Hypokotyl-Explante hatten das hchste Regenerationsvermgen. Die meisten Sprosse (16 pro Explant) wurden auf MS-Medium mit 0.57 M IAA und 22.2 M BAP gebildet. Die Konzentration von extrazellulrem Calcium, Nitrat- und Ammoniumstickstoff im Medium hatte eine deutliche Wirkung auf die Regeneration. Das optimale Medium fr die maximale Sprossproliferation (30 pro Explant) enthielt 3 mM CaCl2, 1900 mg l-1 KN03, 825 mg l-1 (NH4)2S04, 22.2 M BAP und 0.57 M IAA. Die Bewurzelung der Einzelsprosse erfolgte auf B5-Medium mit 2.85 M IAA. Das hochfrequente Regenerationssystem diente als hervorragendes Werkzeug zur Etablierung einer effizienten Brokkoli-Trans formationsmethode. Hypokotyl-Explante wurden zusammen mit dem Agrobacterium tumefaciens-Stamm LBA 4404 kultiviert, der einen binren Vektor mit den jeweils von einem separaten CaMV35S-Promoter kontrollierten Genen fr die Neomycin-Phosphotransferase (nptII) und die -Glucuronidase (gus) enthielt. Die erste Selektion der transformierten Expiante erfolgte ber zehn Tage auf Medien mit hoher (100 mg l-1) und die Regeneration auf optimiertem Regenerationsmedium mit geringerer Kanamycinkonzentration (50 mg l-1). Die Hufigkeit der transgenen Pflanzen wurde auf der Basis der GUS-Aktivitt mittels histochemischem X-gluc-Test nachgewiesen. Die Wirkung einer Vorkultur und das Wachstum der Bakterienkultur wurde untersucht. Eine zweitgige Vorkultur vor der Inokulation mit A. tumefaciens fhrte zu einer verbesserten Transformationsrate. Bakterienkulturen, die bis zu einer optischen Dichte von 2.0 gewachsen waren, fhrten zur hchsten Transformationsrate (60 %). Der Nachweis der Integration des nptii-Gtns erfolgte durch PCR. Alle transgenen Pflanzen wuchsen normal. Die vorliegende Untersuchung zeigt die verbesserte hochfrequente Regeneration und Transformation von Brassica oleracea var. italica.
24126669|Knowledge of the flesh firmness and sugar content of fruit is needed to grade or process peach fruit. The objectives of this study were to determine distribution of flesh firmness and sugar content in a Chinese peach cultivar. There were significant differences for firmness and sugar content in fruit 'latitude' and 'longitude'. Firmness and sugar content of samples from the suture area differed from those of cheek. Firmness and sugar content vary significantly with ripeness, also. Firmness decreased with increase of sugar content for ripe peach, but increased with increase of sugar content for a peach of the same picks.
24126818|The effects of the salicylic acid (SA) on the content of soluble carbohydrates, free proline, malonaldehyde (MDA) and the activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD), peroxidase (POD), catalase (CAT) in strawberry seedling leaves under drought stress were studied. The results showed that under drought stress, suitable concentration of SA increased the content of osmotic adjustment substances such as soluble carbohydrates and free proline of strawberry leaves. Meanwhile, it induced the activity of antioxidant enzymes, alleviated membrane lipid peroxidation as well as membrane system damage, thus improving the drought resistance of strawberry plants.
24127093|To investigate the effect of electrical conductivity (EC) in microbubbles-generated nutrient solution and periodic intermittent microbubble generation on lettuce growth, lettuce seedlings were cultivated at three different levels of EC (0.5,1.0, or 2.0 dS m-1) with microbubbles or at 1.0 dS nr1 with macrobubbles and under three levels of intermittent microbubbles generation (15, 30, and 60 min h-1) in hydroponic culture for 2 weeks. Leaf fresh weight (LFW) of lettuce treated with 0.5 and 1.0 dS m-1 EC microbubbles was 1.54 and 1.43 times greater than those treated with macrobubbles. Although LFW of lettuce grown in 2.0 dS m-1 was significantly less than 0.5 and 1.0 dS m-1 conditions, there was no difference in leaf dry weight (LDW) among the three ECs microbubble conditions. There were no significant differences in the fresh and dry weights of lettuce treated with periodic intermittent generation of microbubbles for 15, 30 and 60 min h-1 (Cont.) regardless of significant difference between microbubble and macrobubble treatments. These results indicate that the microbubble generation in nutrient solutions can promote lettuce growth and intermittent microbubble generation for 30 min h-1 or less can be adapted effectively in hydroponic culture systems.
24126307|The influence of mean 24 hour air temperature and photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD) on the vegetative growth of Ilex x meserveae 'Blue Princess' (S.Y. Hu) was investigated. Rooted cuttings were grown in greenhouse compartments at four mean air temperatures (18.3, 20.6, 23.9 and 25.8 C) combined with four PPFD regimes (0.6, 2.1, 3.7 and 4.7 mol m-2 d-1). The number of unfolded leaves was recorded continuously throughout the experiment. Shoot length, number of side shoots, number of leaves below the first side shoot and dry weight were measured at the end of the experiment. Periodic growth with two growth cycles could be observed in 3 treatments (2.1 mol m-2 d-1 and 25.8 C; 2.1 mol m-2 d-1 and 23.9 C; 0.6 mol m-2 d-1 and 25.8 C) for the duration of the experiment. The number of side shoots reached an optimum at 20.6 C and 3.7 mol m-2 d-1. Side shoot formation only occurred after a dormant phase of the previous flush. The main shoot was significandy longer in the 25.8 C treatment compared to all the other temperature treatments and also the number of leaves below the first side shoot was highest at the highest temperature. Dry weight increased linearly with increasing temperature and did not seem to reach an optimum within the tested temperature interval. For the production of a well-branched holly plant we would therefore recommend growing holly at 20.6 C and 3.7 mol m-2 d-1. Within all treatments individuals did not start growing simultaneously (non-synchronised), but we could find a trend towards better synchronization in the cooler treatments. The results indicate that further studies are needed on growth retardation and crop synchronization. Gegenstand dieser Untersuchung war der Einfluss der durchschnittlichen tglichen Lufttemperatur und der Photonenflussdichte (PPFD) auf das vegetative Wachstum von Ilex  meserveae 'Blue Princess' (S.Y. Hu). Bewurzelte Stecklinge wurden in Gewchshausabteilungen bei vier verschiedenen Durchschnittstemperaturen (18.3, 20.6, 23.9 and 25.8 C) gezogen, die mit 4 verschiedenen Photonenflussdichten (0.6, 2.1, 3.7 and 4.7 mol m-2 d-1) kombiniert wurden. Die Aufzeichnung der Anzahl der entwickelten Bltter wurde whrend des gesamten Experiments regelmig durchgefhrt. Die Lnge der Triebe, die Anzahl der Seitentriebe, die Anzahl der Bltter bis zur ersten Verzweigung und das Trockengewicht der Triebe wurden am Ende des Experimentes gemessen. Periodischer Zuwachs mit zwei vollstndigen Zuwachszyklen whrend der Dauer des Experiments konnte in 3 Behandlungen (2.1 mol m-2 d-1 and 25.8 C; 2.1 mol m-2 d-1 and 23.9 C; 0.6 mol m-2 d-1 and 25.8 C) beobachtet werden. Die Anzahl der Seitentriebe erreichte ein Optimum bei 20.6 C and 3.7 mol m-2 d-1. Eine Entwicklung von Seitentrieben erfolgte nur nach der Ruhephase des vorhergehenden Zuwachszyklus. Der Haupttrieb war signifikant lnger in der 25.8 C Behandlung als in den klteren Behandlungen und auch die Anzahl von Blttern bis zur ersten Verzweigung war bei der hchsten Temperaturbehandlung am hchsten. Das Trockengewicht der Triebe stieg linear mit der Temperatur, ohne innerhalb des getesteten Intervalls ein Optimum zu erreichen. Fr die Produktion von gut verzweigten Stechpalmen wrden wir daher empfehlen, die Pflanzen bei 20.6 C and 3.7 mol m-2 d-1 zu kultivieren. Innerhalb einer Behandlung starteten nicht alle Individuen gleichzeitig mit dem Zuwachs (unsynchronisiert), wobei jedoch ein Trend zu besserer Synchronisation in den klteren Behandlungen vorhanden war. Unsere Ergebnisse zeigen weiterhin, dass weiterfhrende Studien zur Sprosslngensteuerung und zur Synchronisation der Individuen ntig sind.
24126476|Hamamelis comprises many selected cultivars flowering during winter and early spring. Early flowering and the exotic flowers may therefore be of interest for forcing and sale as cut flowers. Three cultivars of Hamamelis  intermedia, 'Arnold Promise', 'Diane' and 'Jelena', and the cultivar 'Pallida' of Hamamelis mollis, and one seedling selection of H. mollis were grown on the South-Western coast of Norway for six growing seasons (1997 to 2002). The amount of flowers on the branches differed between cultivars but was stable within cultivar from year to year. The time of full bloom differed from year to year for the same cultivar by 20 to 30 days (d), and the latest cultivar ('Diane') bloomed on average 34 d later than the earliest ('Jelena'). Branches of all cultivars harvested for forcing before mid December flowered poorly and only after 15 to 20 d in forcing conditions. When harvested in January, flowering was abundant and occurred after only 2 to 5 d in forcing conditions. The longest spell of flowering was observed in H. intermedia 'Arnold Promise' and the shortest in H. mollis 'Pallida'. However, keeping quality differed from year to year, with the longest keeping quality occurring in flowers which bloomed when temperatures in the field were stable. Storage conditions could be made to compensate for low temperatures under outdoor conditions and stored branches would then flower after the same forcing time as branches harvested directly from the field. Different temperatures during storage (3, 6 and 9 C) did not influence the number of days until flowering, but vase life decreased with increasing time and temperature in storage.
24126646|Prunus mahaleb L. is a commonly used cherry rootstock as seedling. Breaking the seed dormancy is essential for successful seedling production. Several authors report on successful application of gibberellins to break seed dormancy and improve germination. There are many molecular variations of gibberellic acid, the most widely used commercially and in experiment is GA3. In this trial the efficiency of GA3 and GA4+7 was compared on Prunus mahaleb L. 'Korponay' at different seed age. Germination percentage, mean germination time (MGT) and germination velocity were evaluated. The results show that GA4+7 was more efficient than GA3 in breaking dormancy of fresh harvested P. mahaleb L. seeds. The mean germination time of fresh harvested seed was decreased by both gibberellin treatments; though the application of GA4+7 resulted in shorter MGT than that of GA3. 'Korponay' seeds when stored for a year, showed similar rates of germination compared to freshly harvested seeds. However, storing the seeds for a year did lead to slower germination speed. Application of gibberellins on seed stored for a year, did not have significant effect on the germination speed.
24126295|Based on general premises and considerations of models at high abstraction level, outlined in part I, this paper presents the parameters worked out for main vegetable species.
24126821|The tomato is one of the most popular vegetables in Europe, but since the introduction of modern production systems much attention has been paid to the issue 'lack of taste'. Consumers' experienced taste and quality, however, are not only dependent on attributes of the tomato such as taste and texture, but also on product appearance and labels signalling credence (e.g. origin and production method) and personal factors such as attitudes affecting consumers' quality experience. In this paper we hypothesise that credence labels (i.e. 'Swedish', 'Dutch' and 'Organic') have an effect on consumers' experienced liking of taste and total impression of tomatoes, and that attitudes towards those labels are correlated with experienced quality. Through a taste assessment with a Swedish consumer panel, we found a significant difference in liking of taste between tomatoes labelled 'Dutch' (Mean (M) = 4.54, Standard deviation (SD) = 1.68) and tomatoes labelled 'Swedish' (M = 5.88, SD = 1.70) and 'Organic' (M = 6.05, SD = 1.70), respectively. As for overall impression, tomatoes labelled 'Dutch' (M = 4.24, SD = 1.74) received lower grades than 'Swedish' (M = 5.59, SD = 1.76) and 'Organic' (M = 6.00, SD = 1.63). We found that attitudes towards origin are significantly correlated with liking of taste of tomatoes labelled 'Swedish' in a positive direction and 'Dutch' in a negative direction. We also found that positive attitudes towards organic products are positively correlated with liking of tomatoes labelled 'Organic'. The hypotheses are accepted and theoretical and practical implications are discussed.
24126650|Applications of the plant growth regulator trinexapacethyl (TE) [4-(cyclopropyl--hydroxymethylene)-3,5-dioxocyclohexane carboxylic acid ethylesterjcan enhance turfgrass colour, quality, and delay winter dormancy of warm-season turfgrass species. The objective of this study was to: study the effects of seasonal TE application on turfgrass quality, colour, fall colour retention and spring green-up of warm-season turfgrass species: Cynodon dactylon (L.) Pers., Buchlo dactyloides Engelm., Zoysia japonica Steudel, Paspalum notation (Flgge), Paspalum vaginatum Swartz, and Eremochloa ophiurioides (Munro) Hack in the Mediterranean region. Applications of TE to the nineteen seeded-type cultivars were made to fully established turf plots at a 0.38 kg active ingredient (a.i.) ha-1 rate in summer or fall. Application schedule included a single application, followed by zero or one sequential application at 4-wk. Overall, TE enhanced turfgrass colour and quality in summer. The late season TE application decreased the quality, fall green colour retention up to 3-wk and delayed spring green-up by 15 d to 30 d. Results support the use of sequential application of TE for improved turfgrass colour and quality in summer. Reduced early fall TE applications should be examined to extend fall colour retention in future studies.
24126725|Postharvest handling of vegetable crops, including storage, may affect the level of bioactive compounds present in plants. Two-year study on the influence of temperature during short-term storage (6 and 24 h) at room temperature and cold-storage (one week) on the content of quercetin, kaempferol and vitamin C in broccoli heads were performed. General Linear Model (GLM) and cluster analysis (CA) were applied to evaluate the effect of time and temperature of storage on the content of tested compounds. It was found that quercetin and kaempferol were stable and no losses of these compounds were observed during storage at room temperature. Vitamin C content significantly decreased under these conditions, whereas cold-storage had no significant influence on the content of this compound in comparison to fresh broccoli. It was also found that the increase of room temperature of storage caused the increase in quercetin and kaempferol contents and higher losses of vitamin C. The drop of cold temperature of storage may also cause decrease in flavonoid content in broccoli. The results demonstrate the importance of storage temperature for the content of vitamin C and flavonoids in broccoli.
24126680|Fruit production, leaf chlorosis and starch content were examined in cucumber plants under 18 and 24 h (continuous) photoperiods. Light levels were adjusted to provide daily quantum integrals of 16.4 mol m-2 day-1 in both treatments. Continuous light reduced fruit production, induced development of chlorosis on young, fully expanded leaves and gave lower starch content, primarily in leaves, compared to 18 h photoperiods. No correlation between chlorosis and hyper-accumulation of starch was found at the onset of visible leaf injury. The present study indicated that a lighting regime with continuous illumination should not be implemented in commercial cucumber production.
24126694|Disease incidence and varietal reactions of 51 melon landraces collected from Lake Van Basin, one of the secondary gene center of melon, to the physiologic races (the race 1 and the race 2) of Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. melonis (F.o.m.) were determined by artificial inoculations. The study was carried out in a growth chamber and pathogen isolates of the races were incubated in a medium containing corn meal and sand, and then this inoculation source was mixed with a seedling growth medium at the rate of 5 % (final density: 106 conidia m1-1). Melon seedlings were evaluated with a 0-3 scale four weeks after the seed sowing in order to detect disease incidence. Disease incidence in melon genotypes against the race 1 and race 2 of F.o.m. ranged between 23 % and 100 % and between 7 % and 100 %, respectively. Moreover, F.o.m. races 1 and 2 did not form any disease incidence in four and one melon genotypes, respectively. One of the melon genotypes, 65 ERC 03, was found to be resistant to both races.
24126330|Prunus laurocerasus 'Otto Luyken' was grown in a peat-free and in a white peat substrate in 5 L containers for 7 months. The peat-free substrate consisted of 40 % substrate compost, 30 % bark compost and 30 % wood fibre. The slow release fertilizer Osmocote (400 mg N L-1) and the organic fertilizer MALTaflor were used. MALTaflor was given in two doses: 400 mg N L-1 and 800 mg N L-1. Irrigation was carried out as trickle irrigation when the water tension reached 100 hPa. Physical properties of both substrates and stability of the N balance of the peat-free substrate were determined. During the experiment, plant growth, N uptake, mineral N content of the substrate and leaching of N, P, and K were measured. The amount of available water is less in the peat-free than in the white peat substrate. The incubation test showed an N immobilization of 138 mg N L-1 for the peat-free substrate. In both substrates marketable plants were produced. N uptake in the course of time followed the same patterns as fresh matter production. However, fresh matter and N uptake were less in the peat-free than in the white peat substrate. This cannot be attributed to low N content of the substrate, since they were higher in the peat-free than in the white peat substrate during the whole growth period. Higher water tensions in the peat-free substrate are supposed to impair spatial availability of N for the organic fertilizer from which only 25 % was mixed into the substrate at potting and 3 further doses were given as topdressing. In the first 5 weeks after potting leaching of N was higher for the peat-free than for the white peat substrate. At the end of the growing season the differences between fertilizers were larger than those between the substrates. Leaching for Osmocote was higher than for MALTaflor, even for the high dose of MALTaflor. More K and P were leached from the peat-free substrate than from white peat. From the peat-free substrate more K was leached than was added by the fertilizer.
24126351|N loss by denitrification from potted plants is subject to high variability. It was suggested that variability partly resulted from characteristics of the potting medium. Thus, peat properties were investigated with regard to their influence on denitrification N loss. The wettability of peat, which depended on substrate water content, showed a strong effect on N loss. Dry substrate produced less N emissions after irrigation than moist substrate. Sieving as well as compacting peat substrate increased denitrification N loss. This was mainly attributed to decreased air capacity. While compacted peat showed increased water and decreased air capacity already before planting, sieved substrate presumably changed during cultivation. Mixing sieved peat with rice husks or wood fibres (30 Vol.%) increased air capacity as measured by the 'Quick' method. Nevertheless, observed N emissions from the mixed substrate were at least as high as from peat. It was suggested that rice husks as well as wood fibres broke down and decomposed during the cultivation period and thus lost their positive effect on substrate aeration. In all experiments denitrification N loss sensitively reflected changes in substrate properties. It was concluded that substrate properties influenced the extent of denitrification N loss and significantly contributed to its variability. N-Verluste aus Topfpflanzen-Kulturen durch Denitrifikation unterliegen einer hohen Variabilitt. Es wurde vermutet, dass diese Variabilitt zum Teil durch Eigenschaften des Topfsubstrats verursacht wird. Daher wurden Torfeigenschaften hinsichtlich ihres Einflusses auf N-Verluste durch Denitrifikation untersucht. Die Benetzbarkeit von Torf, die vom Substrat-Wassergehalt abhing, zeigte einen starken Einfluss auf den N-Verlust. Trockenes Substrat produzierte weniger N-Emissionen nach Bewsserung als feuchtes Substrat. Sowohl das Sieben als auch das Verdichten von Torfsubstrat erhhte die Denitrifikationsverluste. Dies wurde zum Groteil auf eine verminderte Luftkapazitt zurckgefhrt. Whrend verdichtetes Substrat bereits vor der Bepflanzung eine erhhte Wasser- und eine verminderte Luftkapazitt zeigte, vernderte sich das gesiebte Substrat vermutlich erst whrend der Kultur. Das Mischen von gesiebtem Torf mit Reisspelzen oder Holzfasern (30 Vol.%) erhhte die mittels der Quick"-Methode bestimmten Luftkapazitt. Trotzdem waren die gemessenen N-Emissionen aus dem Substratgemisch mindestens so hoch wie aus Torfsubstrat. Es wurde vermutet, dass sich sowohl Reisspelzen als auch Holzfasern whrend der Kulturzeit zersetzten und dadurch ihren positiven Einfluss auf die Substratbelftung verloren. In allen Versuchen spiegelten die N-Verluste zuverlssig Vernderungen der Substrateigenschaften wider. Daraus wurde geschlossen, dass Substrateigenschaften Einfluss auf das Ausma der Denitrifikationsverluste haben und signifikant zu ihrer Variabilitt beitragen.
24126193|The intensive use of water, fertiliser, and chemical growth retardants in horticulture reflects a need for developing new and more environmental suitable production methods to reduce the usage of water and fertiliser, and to reduce the use of pesticides for growth control. We have focused on drought as a single stress factor or combined with reduced phosphorus (P) or reduced nitrogen (N) availability to regulate the growth of Hibiscus rosa-sinensis. Drought stress was applied as cyclic drought, alternating between container capacity and drought to visible wilt (650 to 800 hPa as measured with tensiometers placed in the growth substrate). We used a P buffer technique (Compalox-P) to maintain a predetermined and stable P concentration in the growth substrate. Reduced N was either provided as a constant low N fertigation or as a dynamic supply where the N availability varied throughout production according to plant demand. Drought as a single stress factor reduced plant height by 32 % and low P reduced plant height by 15 % as compared with the control. Combining drought and low P did not reduce the plant height much further. Continuous low N availability reduced plant height by 21 %, whereas there was no clear growth regulating effect of dynamic N availability. Post-production evaluations showed that chemically growth regulated plants had by far the highest percentage of senescent flower buds throughout the post-production evaluation test compared with plants from all other treatments. Reduced P and N availability during production improved the post-production stress tolerance by significantly reducing the number of senescent flower buds and increasing the number of open flowers compared with chemically growth regulated plants. Several cycles of drought reduced post-production quality compared with control plants but improved it compared with chemically growth-regulated plants. The potential benefits of using combinations of reduced water and nutrient availability as methods to reduce the use of pesticides for growth regulation in horticulture, and how these production treatments influence the post-production stress tolerance are discussed. Der intensive Gebrauch von Wasser, Dngemittel und chemischen Hemmstoffen im Gartenbau zeigt wie wichtig es ist, neue, umweltschonende Produktionsmethoden zu entwickeln, die diesen Verbrauch reduzieren. Deshalb haben wir Trockenheit als alleinigen Stressfaktor oder in Kombination mit geringer Phosphor- (P) oder Stickstoffverfgbarkeit (N) als Mittel zur Wachstumsregulation von Hibiscus rosa-sinensis untersucht. Trockenstress wurde in Form von zyklischer Trockenheit, alternierend zwischen Topfkapazitt und Trockenheit bis zur sichtbaren Welke (650 bis -800 hPa gemessen mittels Tensiometern im Substrat), eingesetzt. Zur Aufrechterhaltung der vorgegebenen und konstanten P-Konzentration im Substrat wurde eine P-Puffertechnik (Compalox-P) angewendet. Geringe N-Mengen wurden entweder durch konstant geringe N-Dngung oder durch eine dynamische Versorgung in Abhngigkeit von den Pflanzenbedrfnissen whrend der Produktion verabreicht. Im Vergleich zur Kontrolle reduzierte Trockenheit als alleiniger Stressfaktor die Pflanzenhhe um 32 % und ein geringes P-Angebot um 15 %. Die Kombination von Trockenheit und geringem P-Angebot reduzierte die Pflanzenhhe nicht erheblich strker. Konstant geringe N-Verfgbarkeit reduzierte die Pflanzenhhe um 21 %, wohingegen eine dynamische N-Versorgung keinen deutlichen Wuchsregulationeffekt zeigte. Das Verhalten der Pflanzen beim Endverbraucher zeigte, dass Pflanzen, die mit chemischen Wachstumsregulatoren behandelt worden waren, in diesem Zeitraum im Vergleich mit allen anderen Behandlungsmethoden, den hchsten Prozentsatz an seneszenten Bltenknospen aufwiesen. Geringe P- und N-Verfgbarkeit whrend der Aufzucht verbesserte die Stresstoleranz der Pflanzen beim Endverbraucher, da im Vergleich zu wuchsstoffbehandelten Pflanzen, die Anzahl der seneszenten Bltenknospen deutlich verringert und die Anzahl offener Blten erhht war. Zahlreiche Trockenzyklen verringerten die Qualitt beim Endverbraucher im Vergleich zur Kontrolle, erhhten sie aber im Vergleich mit wuchsstoffbehandelten Pflanzen. Der potentielle Nutzen der methodischen Anwendung von Kombinationen aus geringer Wasser- und Nhrstoffverfgbarkeit zur Reduktion des Pestizidverbrauchs im Gartenbau und ihr Einfluss auf die Qualitt beim Endverbraucher ist Gegenstand der Diskussion.
24126641|Fruits of 'Akca', an early ripening European pear (Pyrus communis L.) cultivar, were exposed to 38 C for 24 h, 48 h and 72 h immediately after harvest, and subsequently they were stored at 01 C and 85-90 % RH conditions for one month. During two harvesting seasons, after removing from the storage, they were placed at ambient conditions for determination of the shelf life. Fruit quality analysis, such as free sugars and organic acids, flesh firmness, fruit skin colour, weight loss, fruit taste, and flesh browning were performed at fifteen-day-intervals during the cold storage and at the end of the shelf life after the cold storage. All quality parameters with the exception of flesh browning and weight loss decreased during the storage and the shelf life period. Heat treatments did not affect sugar composition of the fruits. However, fruits heated for 48 h and 72 h had higher organic acid content, and no flesh browning at the end of the shelf life in contrast to controls and heated fruits for 24 h. In addition, the shelf life period of these fruits were prolonged at least five fold. Loss of flesh firmness was retarded especially in 72 h heated fruits.
24126885|The chill-sensitive cowpea cv 'Guinong' had subjected to different pre- and postharvest calcium treatments in order to determine an effective means of increasing shelf life, reducing the incidence and severity of rust stains. However, treatment of postharvest calcium chloride dipping had found to be less effective in reducing the rust stains symptoms. 'Guinong" were foliar sprayed with 0.2 % calcium chloride solution, and harvested at the 3050 % stage of maturity. At harvest, treated pods had lower soluble protein and malondialdehyde (MDA) than control, while no effect on chlorophyll content and the time required ripening. During low temperature storage, lower levels of decay rate, weight loss, soluble protein, chlorophyll content, peroxidase (POD) activity and MDA has found in treated pods compared with control. In addition, the storability of treated pods had extended for up to 15 days more than that of the control and the preharvest treatment prior to postharvest.
24126399|This work describes a new, computerised vision-based model to estimate the diameter and number of apple fruit on a tree and hence its yield autonomously under natural weather conditions in a fruit orchard. A charge-coupled device (CCD) camera acquired images of cvs 'Golden Delicious' and 'Jonagold' apple (Malus domestica L. Borkh.) trees seven times in the vegetation period, i.e. every two weeks from June to September 2007 for modelling the tree volume, fruit diameter and yield at harvest time. Images were processed off-line using image analysis for fruit colour, shape and texture. The fruit detection algorithm was successfully tested on trees bearing from 15 to 42 apple fruits and missed or mis-classified 1 to 3 apple fruits per tree. Fruit detection was sufficiently accurate with an 89 % rate and an overall error rate of 2.2 %. Fruit diameter was underestimated at the beginning of fruit growth in June, but the data corresponded closely (R2 = 0.96) with orchard measurements from July onwards, which enabled accurate modelling of the expected yield per tree. The proposed autonomous model hence has a large potential for forecasting the yield in June/July of harvest in September/October initially of apple in Europe and in the Northern hemisphere.
24126699|On the basis of climate data and modules described in part I and the growth models of Krug and Liebig (1994, 1995) and co-workers, the duration of defined growth phases of vegetable species and the respective energy demand for heating were parameterised as a function of sites (Helsinki, Hannover, Naples), season, energy saving installations (single and double glass, energy screen) and set points for heating. Special results are:  the lower energy demand with higher set points as a result of accelerated growth of warmness demanding species or in warmness demanding phases at low external temperature  at low air temperatures (set points) in greenhouses the accelerated emergence with lower energy demand with seeding in the ground soil compared to seeding into trays on tables  the favourable effect of higher set points, when accelerated growth avoids unfavourable external conditions or reduces their growth retarding effects  the absolute values of the energy saving effect of double glass (about 40 %) and of energy saving screens (735 %) per crop depend on species, climate and season  the data calculated on the basis of the extended and improved submodels confirm earlier recommendations (Krug and Liebig 1988, 1994, 1995) and extend them with regard to different sites, greenhouse types and sizes as well as energy saving installations. Their importance increases with cooler climates and/or seasons. The calculations presented are examples, which can be specified and/or extended by other growth factors (e.g. CO2, artificial light, soil heating) and other species. Other growth parameters and equations can be requested from the institute.
24126662|Flesh browning development of plum fruit during cold storage is the major factor to result in accelerated quality loss and reduced commercial value of the fruit. Experiments were conducted to test the role of GA3 in inhibiting the flesh browning development of plum fruit during storage at low temperature. Plum fruit were dipped for 3 min into 0 (control), 50, 100 and 200 l l-1 GA3 solutions, respectively, and then stored for 90 days at 2 C and 8590 % relative humidity. Changes in activities of polyphenol oxidase (PPO), peroxidase (POD) and phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) and concentrations of phenolics and ascorbic acid (AA), in relation to flesh browning development were measured. Application of GA3 to plum fruit reduced flesh browning development, inhibited activities of POD and PAL, and delayed the decrease of AA concentration and the increases of total phenolic concentration and PPO activity. Accordingly, the results suggested that the inhibition of flesh browning development of cold-stored plum fruit by GA3 treatment could be due to both a higher AA level and reduced activities of PPO and POD which catalysed oxidation of phenolics. Use of GA3 exhibited a potential for storage life extension and quality maintenance of plum fruit at low temperature.
24126449|Glufosinate ammonium-based herbicides are commonly used in commercial vineyards to control excessive growth of weeds. However, glufosinate ammonium also seems to have antifungal properties. Since recent reports indicate fungicidal activities also to grape pathogens, several fungal organisms putatively pathogenic to grapevine (Botrytis cinerea, Guignardia bidwellii, Pnicillium expansum, Phomopsis viticola) were exposed to glufosinate ammonium in an in vitro assay. The herbicidal compound caused reduction of mycelial growth in a dose dependent manner. G. bidwellii was the most sensitive pathogen, and mycelial growth was reduced about of 80 % when exposed to a 500fold diluted solution of glufosinate ammonium normally applied to the field. As an interesting side effect, glufosinate ammonium nearly inhibited spore production in Penicillium expansum cultures when exposed to the same low concentration. Even though fermentation of must by yeasts may be affected due to residues attached to grapes, spray applications of glufosinate ammonium to the ground leading to a dispersal of small amounts to non-treated areas could help to reduce the built-up of secondary inoculum in the same season or primary inoculum for the following year.
24126804|Prohexadione-calcium (ProCa) is used to control vegetative growth in some fruit crops. We evaluated the effects of single and repeated ProCa treatments (100 or 200 ppm) on vegetative growth and cropping potential of biennial-fruiting raspberry (Rubus idaeus L.) cultivars 'Glen Ample' and Tulameen'. After the initial reduction in primocane growth rate, growth resumed three to four weeks after the first ProCa application. The second application was necessary to achieve permanent reduction in cane height. In 'Glen Ample', primocane growth was reduced by 25 to 28 cm and dry weight by 18 to 26 % following two ProCa treatments. In 'Tulameen' the reduction in primocane growth was 15 cm, and in cane dry weight 19 %, when treated twice with 200 ppm ProCa. After ProCa applications, treated plants produced shorter internodes than the control plants. However, after growth resumption new internodes in the treated plants were longer than in the control plants. Effects on the reproductive performance were evaluated after dormancy release. In 'Glen Ample', repeated ProCa applications reduced the number of lateral shoots, as well as the number and proportion of flower buds, and slightly delayed flowering. Presumably, altered gibberellic acid metabolism had interfered with flower induction. However, the total number of flowers per cane was not affected in either of the cultivars. As ProCa was effective in reducing vegetative growth of primocanes without affecting cropping potential, it may become useful in growth control of biennial fruiting raspberry cultivars. However, timing and number of ProCa applications are extremely crucial.
24126806|Two models developed to predict flower infections by Botrytis cinerea, the cause of grey mould, were evaluated in field grown June bearing strawberries in Norway. Fungicide applications based on model predictions were compared to a standard spray programme. The Ohio model predicted risk of infection based on temperature and number of hours with free water, and the BOTEM model used day time vapour pressure deficit and night time temperature. The Ohio model was tested in 16 site/year combinations and the BOTEM model in 8 of the same sites/years. The standard spray programme included 4 (14 sites/years), 3 (one site/year) or 2 (one site/year) routine sprays during flowering and early fruiting with different fungicides, approximately one week apart. All plots treated with fungicides had a lower level of grey mould and a higher yield compared to unsprayed. The mean percentages of grey mould in fruits at harvest were 7.2, 11.5, and 16.5 if following the standard programme, the Ohio, or the BOTEM models, respectively. In several sites/years, very good control of grey mould was achieved using a less intensive spray programme based on infection predictions, but the models need improvement to more clearly identify conditions that do not permit a reduction in fungicide applications. When all three strategies were included, the mean number of fungicide applications was significantly lower (P < 0.001) using the Ohio and BOTEM models (1.4 and 1.1, respectively) compared to the standard programme (3.8). For all sites/years including the standard programme and the Ohio model, 3.8 and 2.0 sprays were applied, respectively. Yield was always higher in treated plots than in untreated, but the difference was significant only in 7 and 5 out of 16 site/year combinations for the normal programme and the Ohio model, respectively, and 2 out of 8 site/year combinations for the BOTEM model.
24126369|Basic features, achievements and special problems of modelling plant/crop development, in this part the impacts of photoperiodism and temperature on endodormancy, are reviewed, extended and applications in vegetable production are discussed.
24126841|The effects of a seven day period with increased temperature from a standard level of 20 to 27,32 or 37 C during flower initiation on apparent quantum efficiency (Fv/Fm), chlorophyll content and flowering behaviour in raspberry 'Autumn Bliss', 'Autumn Treasure', 'Erika', 'Fall Gold' and 'Polka' were investigated. The Fv/Fm decreased steadily from 0.82 to 0.70 on the seventh day at 37 C in 'Autumn Bliss' and 'Fall Gold'. A significant diurnal variation in Fy/Fm, characterized by a midday depression and partial recovery in the evening was observed in 'Polka'. Plants of 'Autumn Bliss' exposed for seven days to 37 C had 58 % less chlorophyll a as compared to those grown at 20 C. The chlorophyll a/b ratio decreased to 20 % at 37 C in 'Autumn Bliss', and 'Fall Gold'. The number of days to anthesis of the terminal flower was not significantly affected by the temperature treatments. The number of unopened axillary buds decreased at 37 C in 'Autumn Bliss', 'Autumn Treasure', "Fall Gold' and 'Polka'. The percentage of flowering lateral shoots per plant decreased by 16 % at 37 C in 'Autumn Bliss' whereas it increased by 7 % at 37 C in 'Autumn Treasure' and 'Erika'. Seven days at 37 C during flower induction delayed flowering in 'Autumn Treasure' and 'Erika' resulting in 20 % less unopened flowers at the time of registration compared with reference plants. Thus the negative responses of heat stress was reflected in a decreased midday Fv/Fm in all cultivais, while there was a remarkable difference in chlorophyll content and flowering behaviour among cultivars. These responses suggest that there is a difference of annual-fruiting raspberry cultivars in their inherent ability to adapt to heat stress.
24126692|Effect of particle type film antitranspirant 'Limewash' as preharvest foliar spray on stomatal resistance, ABA, transpiration, growth, and productivity of pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) plants grown in sandy soil under water deficit condition was studied. Data show that plants grown under water stress have a high stomatal resistance. Water-stressed plants had higher ABA concentrations and low relative water content, while leaf osmotic potential (s) was increased. Plant growth, as represented by total dry weight, was decreased and fruit quality was reduced. Fruit yield was also reduced and postharvest decay was increased in water stressed fruit. 'Limewash' spray was likely to overcome the harmful effect of water stress and reserved plant growth, physiology and productivity almost similar to the control. The application of 'Limewash' showed to be useful for regulating plant physiology and decreased postharvest decay in water stressed fruit.
24126303|Mature green 'Solo' papayas individually packed in low-density polyethylene (LDPE), polypropylene (PP) and Pebax-C films, to create a modified atmosphere (MA) around the fruit, were stored at 7 or 13 C and 8590 % relative humidity. The rates of respiration and ethylene production gave an indication of chilling stress. The electrolyte leakage from whole fruit, measured as electrical conductivity, increased with the appearance of slight chilling injury (CI) symptoms and showed proportional increase with the severity of CI. Modified atmosphere packaging (MAP) prevented the development of CI symptoms during storage at 7 or 13 C for 30 days, but fruits stored at 7 C failed to ripen normally and showed blotchy appearance due to skin scald, and showed internal injury. LDPE and Pebax-C packed fruits stored at 13 C showed higher retention of ascorbic acid, total carotenoids and lycopene after 30 days storage at 13 C + 7 days in air at 20 C. However, non-packed fruits stored at 13 C up to 20 days did not suffer in their ascorbic acid content compared to 30 days storage at both the temperatures. Therefore, individual packaging of 'Solo' papaya in LDPE or Pebax-C film could prevent the chilling injury at 13 C for 30 days and maintained the acceptable levels of dietary antioxidants. Reife, grne Papayas der Sorte 'Solo' wurden, um eine die Frucht umschlieende, modifizierte Athmosphre zu schaffen, einzeln in leichte Folien aus Polyethylen (LD-PE), Polypropylen (PP) oder Pebax-C verpackt und bei 7 bzw. 13 C und 8590 % relativer Feuchtigkeit gelagert. Die Respirations- und Ethylenbildungsraten dienten als Indikatoren fr den Kltestress. Der Elektrolytverlust der ganzen Frucht, der mittels elektrischer Leitfhigkeit gemessen wurde, stieg mit dem Auftreten von leichten Klteschden (CI) an und steigerte sich proportional zur weiteren Ausbreitung der CI. Die Verpackung in modifizierter Atmosphre (MAP) verhinderte das Auftreten von Cl-Symptomen whrend der 30-tgigen Lagerung bei 7 bzw. 13 C, jedoch reiften die bei 7 C gelagerten Frchte nicht normal weiter, sahen aufgrund von Schalenvernderungen fleckig aus und hatten auch innere Verletzungen. In LDPE oder Pebax-C verpackte und bei 13 C gelagerte Frchte wiesen nach der Kombination von 30 Tagen Lagerung bei 13 C + 7 Tagen offen bei 20 C eine bessere Erhaltung von Ascorbinsure, Gesamtkarotinoiden und Lykopin auf. Allerdings zeigten nichtverpackte und 20 Tage bei 13 C gelagerte Frchte im Vergleich zu 30 Tage bei 7 bzw. 13 C in Folie gelagerten, keine Unterschiede im Ascorbinsure-Gehalt. Die Einzelverpackung von Papayafrchten der Sorte 'Solo' in LDPE oder Pebax-C-Folie kann das Auftreten von Klteschden nach 30-tgiger Lagerung bei 13 C verhindern und ein akzeptables Ma an diettischen Antioxidantien erhalten.
24126700|Five morphologically different isolates of Fusarium foetens were cultivated on potato dextrose agar (PDA), and the fungal volatile compounds were detected and analysed by headspace sorptive extraction (HSSE) followed by gas chromatography / mass spectrometry (GC/MS). Ten sesquiterpenes and five cyclohexane derivatives were detected. Hierarchical cluster analysis enabled the differentiation between red coloured sesquiterpene producing strains and white or pink coloured cyclohexane derivative producing strains. This result has been confirmed by sensory characterisation carried out by sensory trained examiners. Sesquiterpenes 10, 11 and 18 were detected in all isolates of both groups, however, in the first group at a higher level with an average of 88 %-peak area. The patterns of a RAPD-PCR analysis did not show any differences between the isolates. However, RAPD-PCR enables a clear differentiation of Fusarium foetens from Fusarium begoniae and Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. cyclaminis isolates. The combination of both techniques, the HSSE and the RAPD-PCR, provides an improvement in identification of F. foetens and differentiation of its strains. Begonia elatior hybrids (Begonia x hiemalis), cultivar 'Barkos', were inoculated with a sesquiterpene producing strain of Fusarium foetens and incubated in a moist chamber. The volatile organic compounds were extracted and analysed by using the same methods as for the above-mentioned in vitro experiments. The three sesquiterpenes 10,11 and 18, previously detected on agar plates, achieved an average of 63 %-peak area. Only traces of the main compounds were detected in extracts from whole infected plants. Therefore, practical application e.g. in the form of a so-called "e-nose" to help detect infected plants is currently not realistic, but holds promise for the future.
24127045|Powdery mildew is a serious cucumber disease. The plant kingdom represents an enormous reservoir of various biologically active molecules; twenty-two Chinese plants were screened using a detached leaf-disc assay for preventive effect against powdery mildew (Sphaerotheca fuliginea). Four plant extracts, Euphorbia humifusa Willd, Robinia pseudoacacia L., Photinia serrulata Lindl and Cucurbita moschata (Duch.) Poiret, showed high preventive effects. Further in vivo potted seedlings assays of these four plant extracts showed E. humifusa and R, pseudoacacia extracts had not only preventive effect but also curative effect. The control effect of E. humifusa extracts was confirmed in the greenhouse test. The stability assays of E. humifusa and R. pseudoacacia extracts showed these two extracts are relatively stable under 40 C, alkali condition, and treatment of light, ultraviolet treatment in short period. These results may be a basis for further developing a natural fungicide against cucumber powdery mildew.
24126332|The aim of the experiment was to ascertain the dependence of the carbohydrates (sorbitol, sucrose, glucose and fructose) in fruits and leaves, organic acids in fruits, nitrogen content in leaves and leaf chlorophyll content according to the different rates of nitrogen supply. The analyses were conducted on 13-year-old cv. 'Golden Delicious' apple trees (Malus domestica Borkh.), which were either fertilized with 80 kg N ha-1 (N-80) or 200 kg N ha-1 (N-200) or not fertilized (N-0) as control. The leaf nitrogen content was significantly higher in the treatment N-200 than in the N-0 treatment. A seasonal decrease in leaf nitrogen content was noticed in all treatments. Leaf SPAD (indexed chlorophyll content) readings were increasing until the end of July and then stagnated. All over the season, the readings were significantly higher in treatment N-200 than in the N-0 treatment and from mid- June to end of July also higher than in the N-80 treatment. The nitrogen supply did not affect the content of single sugars nor did it affect total sugars in the leaves. The nitrogen fertilization had no effects the level of sorbitol in the fruits; increased N-supply resulted in lower contents of sucrose and fructose and higher contents of glucose in fruits. As for organic acids, the nitrogen supply caused higher concentrations of citric acid.
24127675|The influence of chemical and hand thinning on the quality and quantity of pear fruit (Pyrus communis L.) form the cv. 'Conference' was investigated at Pirsenbreg (Slovenia) in 2005, 2006 and 2007. The experiment included these four treatments: chemical thinning with NAA 8 mg l-1, hand thinning 0.8 fruits cm-2 of trunk cross sectional area (TCSA), hand thinning 0.5 fruits cm-2 of TCSA and control in 2005. Because thinning with NAA 8 mg l-1 was insufficient, an additional treatment with NAA at 16 mg l-1 (NAA 16) was performed in 2006, and NAA at 20 mg l-1 (NAA 20) in 2007. Hand thinning 0.8 or 0.5 fruits cm-2 TCSA had no influence on floral density, yield efficiency or soluble solids content. Hand thinning did produce a statistically significant increase in fruit diameter and fruit weight in 2005 and 2007. Chemical thinning had a minor influence on fruit dimension (diameter, length, and weight), because the differences between control and individual chemical thinning treatments were insignificant. Chemical thinning by NAA of fruit on trees was insufficient. In 2005, we noticed a higher and statistically significant amount of soluble solids in the fruit of trees thinned with NAA 8 mg l-1. Chemical thinning with NAA 8 mg l-1 had no influence on fruit firmness in 2005, while in 2006 and 2007 fruit firmness was higher than in the control. Chemical thinning had no negative effect on floral density, number of fruit per tree, fruit set, yield per tree, yield efficiency, crop load or total acids content.
24134254|The cytokinin zeatin level was determined in carrots during pre- and postharvest period to assess a potential relationship with dormancy. Samples of the leaves and roots of the F1 carrot cv. 'Nandor' were obtained approximately two months before harvest for hormone analysis. After harvest, carrots were stored in 5 kg perforated polyethylene (PE) bags, and placed into the cold stores set at 0  and 5 C, and 85 % to 90 % relative humidity (RH). At monthly intervals in the post-harvest period, all samples were evaluated for their content of the zeatin, rooting ratio and degree and sprouting ratio and degree. Leaves possess a higher zeatin content than roots in the pre harvest period. During growth and development, zeatin content decreased in leaves, but increased in the root tissues. In the post-harvest period, zeatin levels of roots stored at 5 C increase and then subsequendy decline. Rooting and sprouting are observed at the same time when the level of cytokinin reaches its highest value. These data show that increasing levels of zeatin cause dormancy break in carrot tissues, and that levels of cytokinin fall with aging. Zeatin increases in 0 C treatment beginning of month 4. Der Zeatingehalt von Mhren wurde vor und nach der Ernte ermittelt und seine Beziehung zum Lagerverhalten untersucht. Zu diesem Zweck wurden in den letzten Monaten vor der Ernte fnf bzw. sechs Wurzel- und Blattproben von Karotten der F1-Sorte 'Nandor' zur Hormonanalyse entnommen. Nach der Ernte wurden die Mhren in Polyethylenscke (PE) mit 5 kg Fassungsvermgen gepackt und bei Temperaturen von 0  und 5  C bei 8590 % relativer Luftfeuchtigkeit in Khlrumen eingelagert. Die Zeatinkonzentration sowie Grad und Ausma der Wurzelbildung und des Austriebs wurden bei allen Proben in monatlichen Intervallen festgestellt. Vor der Ernte war der Zeatinpegel in den Blttern hher als in den Wurzeln. Whrend die Mhren heranwuchsen und sich entwickelten, nahm der Zeatingehalt der Blttern ab, whrend der Wert in den Wurzeln anstieg. Nach der Ernte stieg der Zeatingehalt der bei 5 C gelagerten Mhre an, um dann wieder abzunehmen. Dieser Anstieg war zeitgleich mit dem Beginn der Bewurzelung und des Austriebs zu beobachten. Die Daten belegen, dass die Ruhephase mit Anstieg des Zeatins endet und dass der Cytokiningehalt whrend des Alterungsprozesses sinkt. Bei der 0 C-Variante begann der Zeatinanstieg im vierten Monat nach der Ernte.
24126391|A new supplementary lighting technique, interlighting, has been devised for greenhouse cucumber production. A prerequisite for the adoption of the new lighting technique is the ability to provide economic benefit for the producer. Thus, the aim of this study was to compare the economics between conventional top lighting (TL), in which all of the high pressure sodium (HPS) lamps were mounted above the canopy, and two treatments of interlighting: slight interlighting in which the top lamps (HPS) covered 76 % and the vertically mounted interlighting lamps (HPS) 24 % (T+IL24) of the lighting, and intense interlighting in which the top lamps covered 52 % and the vertically mounted interlighting lamps 48 % (T+IL48) of the lighting. Economic comparison was made using a static deterministic discrete-event simulation model, and a sensitivity analysis was conducted. In yearly level, both interlighting treatments proved to be relatively more profitable than top lighting: the addition to relative profit was 18.51  m-2 for T+IL24 and 16.25  m-2 for T+IL48. However, the advantage of interlighting turned up only in periods when the amount of natural light was low, in autumn-winter and in spring. Sensitivity analysis indicated that interlighting required high management skills because already an 11 % yield reduction caused interlighting to be no longer relatively profitable. External shocks, such as reduction of cucumber price or increase of electricity price affected interlighting more strongly than top lighting, but interlighting still remained relatively more profitable than top lighting after a 50 % change.
24126217|A gene encoding for zucchini yellow mosaic virus (ZYMV) coat protein was transformed into 'Kirkagac 637', an important Turkish melon cultivar using Agrobacterium tumefaciens, and putatively resistant transgenic lines were obtained. Proximal cotyledonary expiants were incubated with Agrobacterium carrying the binary plasmid PGA643 including the nptii and yymv coat protein genes under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter. ELISA tests and PCR analyses were performed to determine which plants were transformants. Transformation efficiency was 1,6 %. Four transformants were self pollinated to obtain R1 generation. The plants from the R2 generation were tested by PCR to demonstrate the integration of the zymv coat protein gene (1000 bp) in to the 'Kirkagac 637' genome. Segregation of 4 transformants was tested by X2 analysis and the results were consistent with predicted Mendelian ratios. In each case the P values were much greater than the rejection level of P=0.05. Das Gen fr das Hllprotein des Zucchinigelbmosaikvirus (ZYMV) wurde mittels Agrobacterium tumefaciens in 'Kirkaa 637', eine sehr wichtige Melonensorte in der Trkei, transformiert, was zu vermutlich resistenten transgenen Linien fhrte. Kotyledonen ohne apikalmeristematischen Teil wurden als Explantate verwendet und mit Agrobacterium tumefaciens, welches das binre Plasmid PGA643 mit dem nptii-Gen und dem zymv-Hllproteingen kontrolliert vom CaMV 35S-Promotor aufweist, inkubiert. Zur Erkennung transformierter Pflanzen wurden ELISA-Tests und PCR-Analysen durchgefhrt. Dabei zeigte sich, dass die Transformationsrate 1,6 % betrug. Vier Transformanten wurden geselbstet, um eine R1-Generation zu erhalten. Um die Integration des zymv Hllproteingens (1000 bp) in das Genom von 'Kirkagac 637' in den R2-Pflanzen nachzuweisen, wurden PCR-Analysen durchgefhrt. Die Aufspaltung der vier Transformanten wurde mit dem 2Test berprft. Die Ergebnisse stimmten mit der erwarteten Mendel-Spaltung berein. In jedem Fall waren die P-Werte wesentlich grer als 0.05.
24126125|The influence of polyamines (putrescine and spermidine; 5-1000 M) was studied on androgenesis of Cucumis sativus L. cvs 'Calypso' and 'Green Long'. Addition of polyamines (putrescine or spermidine; 5-200 M) to the embryo induction medium [B5 (Gamborg et al. 1968) containing 2.0 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 1.0 M 6-benzyladenine (BA) and 0.25 M sucrose] enhances the rate of embryogenesis and spermidine showed optimum response (90.66 and 100.33 embryos per 60 anthers of 'Calypso' and 'Green Long' respectively) at 200 M. Higher concentrations (500 or 1000 M) of putrescine and spermidine were not beneficial for embryogenesis. Embryo differentiation was achieved on B5 medium supplemented with 0.25 M of -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), 0.25 M kinetin (Kn) and 0.09 M sucrose. Transfer of the differentiated embryos to maturation medium containing 0.09 M sucrose and 10 M abscisic acid (ABA) resulted in maturation of embryos. Mature embryos developed into plantlets on germination medium containing 0.09 M sucrose. Embryos developed from anthers on induction medium containing 200 M spermidine showed maximum regeneration efficiency. Der Einfluss der Polyamine, Putreszin und Spermidin (5-1000 M), wurde am Beispiel der Androgenese der Cucumis sativus-Sorten 'Calypso' und 'Green Long' untersucht. Die Zugabe von Putreszin oder Spermidin (5200 M) zum Embryo-induzierenden Medium [B5 (Gamborg et al. 1968) mit 2.0 M 2,4-Dichlorphenoxyessigsure (2,4-D), 1.0 M 6-Benzyladenin (BA) und 0.25 M Saccharose] verbesserte die Embryogeneserate, wobei Spermidin seine optimale Wirkung (90.66 bzw. 100.33 Embryonen pro 60 Antheren bei 'Calypso' bzw. 'Green Long') bei 200 M entfaltete. Hhere Konzentrationen von Putreszin und Spermidin (500 oder 1000 M) waren fr die Embryogenese nicht frderlich. Die Differenzierung der Embryonen erfolgte auf B5-medium, dem 0.25 M -Naphthalensure (NAA), 0.25 M Kinetin (Kn) und 0.09 M Saccharose zugefgt wurden. Die berfhrung der differenzierten Embryonen auf das Reifungsmedium mit 0.09 M Saccharose und 10 M Abscisinsure (ABA) war erfolgreich. Reife Embryonen entwickelten sich auf dem Keimmedium, das 0.09 M Saccharose enthielt. Die Embryonen aus Antheren, die auf dem Induktionsmedium mit 200 M Spermidin kultiviert worden waren, wiesen die maximale Regenerationfhigkeit auf.
24126637|The in vitro response of the apple rootstocks M 9 and MM 106 to increasing concentrations of sucrose (44, 88, 176 mM) and sorbitol (82, 164, 329 mM) of the culture medium is reported. 88 mM sucrose in the MS medium was the optimal concentration for shoot proliferation of shoots of both the rootstocks as compared to 44 and 176 mM. By increasing sucrose concentration of the medium, shoot length of MM 106 plants increased. However, the effect of the tested sucrose concentrations on shoot length of M 9 plants was not apparent. The in vitro cultures of M 9 shoots produced the greatest number of shoots and the longest shoots per explant with 164 mM of sorbitol in the medium as compared to 82 and 329 mM sorbitol, and to all sucrose concentrations tested. However, the in vitro cultures of MM 106 produced the highest fresh weight per explant, the greatest number of new shoots and the longest shoots per explant with 329 mM of sorbitol in the medium compared to all the other treatments, indicating a genotypic effect. Mineral concentration in plants was also a function of genotype, carbohydrate source and its concentration in the medium. Explants of both rootstocks treated with sorbitol showed the highest peroxidase and catalase activities in leaves and stems. Although, no differences were found between the electrophoretic profiles of catalase, however, the presence of sucrose and sorbitol in the MS medium remarkably influenced the population of peroxidase isoenzymes in leaves and stems of both rootstocks.
24126114|This study was carried out to determine fruit characteristics at different harvest periods of 'Halehaven', 'Dixired', 'Glohaven', 'Jeferson', 'J.H. Hale', 'Redhaven', 'Earlyred', 'June Gold' and 'Blake' peach cultivars grown under ecological conditions in Van province during 1999 and 2000, and also to estimate their suitable harvest times. Fruits were harvested at five days intervals in 1999, and at three days intervals during 2000. In the cultivars, phenological properties, physical traits and chemical analyses were determined for two years. Fruit weights varied to cultivars, harvest times and years. In 2000, 'J.H. Hale' (94.0 g), 'Blake' (86.2 g), 'Redhaven' (79.2 g) had the highest fruit weights. In 1999, fruit weights in the majority of cultivars were lower than those in 2000. In both years, 'Earlyred' had the highest total soluble solid content: 17.2 % in 1999 and 19.2 % in 2000. This cultivar was followed by 'Redhaven' with 16.2 % and 'Dixired' with 16.2 % in 1999. The soluble solid contents were lower than those of the first year, depending on cultivars and on harvest times. Titratable acidity varied from 0.14 % ('Dixired', 1999) to 0.88 % ('Halehaven', 1999). In both years, harvest time for 'Earlyred' was earlier than that of other cultivars. Ziel dieser Untersuchungen war es, die Fruchteigenschaften der Pfirsichsorten 'Halehaven', 'Dixired', 'Glohaven', 'Jeferson', 'J.H. Haie', 'Redhaven', 'Earlyred', 'June Gold' und 'Blake', die in den Jahren 1999 und 2000 unter kologischen Bedingungen in der Provinz Van kultiviert wurden, zu ermitteln und den jeweils optimalen Erntezeitpunkt zu bestimmen. 1999 wurden die Frchte in Intervallen von fnf Tagen und 2000 von drei Tagen geerntet. ber die zwei Vegetationsperioden wurden phnologische, physikalische und chemische Eigenschaften der Sorten bestimmt. Das Fruchtgewicht variierte in Abhngigkeit von Sorte, Erntezeitpunkt und Jahr. 2000 wiesen 'J.H. Haie' (94.0 g), 'Blake' (86.2 g) und 'Redhaven' (79.2 g) die hchsten Fruchtgewichte auf. 1999 war das Fruchtgewicht der meisten Sorten geringer. In beiden Jahren war der Gehalt an lslichen Kohlenstoffen bei 'Earlyred' mit 17.2 % (1999) bzw. 19.2 % (2000) am hchsten. 1999 folgten 'Redhaven' mit 16.2 % und 'Dixired' mit 16.2 %. Die Kohlenstoffgehalte waren im zweiten Jahr in Abhngigkeit von Sorte und Erntezeitpunkt niedriger als 1999. Die titrierbare Sure variierte von 0.14 % ('Dixired', 1999) bis 0.88 % ('Halehaven', 1999). In beiden Jahren lag der optimale Erntezeitpunkt fr 'Earlyred' frher als bei den brigen Sorten.
24126169|The effects of incorporating plant growth regulators into the priming solution on low temperature germination and emergence performance of muskmelon [Cucumis melo L. (Reticulatus Group) cv. 'Athena'] seeds were investigated. Seeds were primed for 6 days at 25 C in darkness in 3.5 % (0.35 M) KNO3 solution containing one of the following: 1, 3, 5 or 10 M methyl jasmonate (MeJA), or 1, 3, 5 or 10 mM spermine. Following priming, seeds were subjected to germination and emergence tests at 150.5 C. Priming muskmelon seeds in the presence or absence of plant growth regulators significantly improved germination percentage, rate and synchrony at 15 C compared to untreated seeds. Inclusion of both MeJA and spermine at all concentrations except 10 M MeJA resulted in higher germination percentages compared to seeds primed in KNO3 only. The highest germination percentages were obtained from seeds that were primed in KNO3 solution supplemented with 1 M MeJA (96 %) and 1 mM (94 %) spermine. Moreover, the presence of both growth regulators in the priming solution improved low temperature emergence of muskmelon seeds compared to untreated seeds and seeds primed in KNO3 solution alone. Inclusion of 1 M MeJA and 3 mM spermine into the priming solution led to the highest emergence percentages with 90 % and 85 %, respectively, while priming in KNO3 solution in the absence of plant growth regulators resulted in significantly lower emergence percentage (31 %). Therefore, priming in 1 M of MeJA or 3 mM spermine incorporated into the KNO3 solution can be used as an effective method to improve low temperature performance of muskmelon seeds. Untersucht wurde die Wirkung der Beimengung von Wachstumsregulatoren zur Vorbehandlungslsung von Saatgut der Netzmelonen- [Cucumis melo L. (Reticulatus Group)] Sorte 'Athena' auf die Keimung und das Auflaufverhalten bei niedrigen Temperaturen. Saatgut wurde 6 Tage bei 25 C und Dunkelheit in 3.5 % (0.35 M) KNO3-Lsung unter Zugabe von 1, 3, 5 oder 10 M Methyljasmonat (MeJA) bzw. 1, 3, 5 oder 10 mM Spermin vorbehandelt. Daran anschlieend wurden die Samen zur Keimung und fr die Auflauftestungen bei 150.5 C gehalten. Die Vorbehandlung von Netzmelonensaatgut mit KNO3 verbesserte die Keimprozente, die Keimrate und die Gleichmigkeit der Keimung bei 15 C im Vergleich mit unbehandelten Samen. Im Vergleich zur Vorbehandlung nur mit KNO3 fhrte der Zusatz von beiden, MeJA und Spermin, in allen untersuchten Konzentrationen mit Ausnahme von 10 M MeJA zu hheren Keimprozenten. Die hchsten Keimprozente wurden bei Samen erzielt, die mit KNC>3-Lsungs unter Zugabe von 1 M MeJA (96 %) und 1 mM (94 %) Spermin vorbehandelt wurden. Auerdem verbesserte die Zugabe beider Wachstumsregulatoren in die Vorbehandlungslsung das Auflaufen der Netzmelonensamen bei niedrigen Temperaturen sowohl im Vergleich mit unbehandelten als auch mit nur KNO3 behandelten Samen. Die Zugaben von 1 M MeJA bzw. 3 mM Spermin zur Vorbehandlungslsung fhrten mit 90 bzw. 85 % zu den hchsten Keimprozenten, wohingegen die Vorbehandlung mit KNO3-Lsung ohne Wachstumsregulatoren mit 31 % zu signifikant geringeren Keimprozenten fhrte. Deshalb kann die Zugabe von 1 M MeJA oder 3 mM Spermin zur KNO3-Lsung als wirkungsvolle Methode zur Leistungsverbesserung von Netzmelonensamen bei niedrigen Temperaturen angewendet werden.
24127101|Zeolite amendment changes the properties of growing media. The effect depends on the rate and grading of the added zeolites. The aim of the work was to compare the effect of granulated and powdered zeolites on the physical and chemical properties of peat based growing media and on the growth of Pelargonium zonale, to compare these zeolite amended growing media with commercial growing medium used in Slovenian horticultural enterprises for growing Pelargoniums and other balcony plants and to find out whether it was possible to prepare quality peat based growing medium amended with granulated zeolite in both low and high quantities, 50 kg m-3 and 150 kg m-3. The plants were grown in peat based growing media amended with powdered or granulated zeolite (30 or 40 kg m-3 of powdered zeolite, 50 or 150 kg m-3 of granulated zeolite). Peat based medium amended with 50 kg m-3 of clay was used as a control. The chemical and physical properties of the growing media were analysed according to European standards. Retention curves were determined in a sand box in the range of -0.25 to -10 kPa. At the end of the experiment, the plants were evaluated for fresh weight, dry weight, and dimensions. All tested growing media had good physical properties for plant growth, in terms of total pore space, easily available water and air pore space. Growing media with powdered zeolite had rather higher water holding capacity over the entire measured water potential range. The best growth was recorded in growing media with powdered zeolite but plants of good marketable quality were also grown in growing medium with 50 kg m-3 of added granulated zeolite. The experiment showed that it is possible to use growing media amended with granulated zeolite with a lower price but only in quantities of 50 kg m-3.
24126216|Texture is an important quality parameter in fresh horticultural products. However, its complexity and variability entails that instrumental analyses describe it only partial whereas various properties are involved. For example, product water status, cell wall physical properties and tissue structure interdependently determine compressive and tensile strength, and elastic properties, which all together characterise texture. Furthermore, short-term effects on texture under unfavourable conditions during shelf live may be functionally different from those occurring during long-term storage. During recent years, new methods such as the acoustic impulse-response technique have become available to non-destructive ly analyse the elastic texture components. In addition, water potential, osmotic potential and turgor can be non-destructively assessed with the pressure bomb in combination with pressure volume analyses in many products. An experiment was designed to comprehensively study the effects of water status on different tissue elastic parameters. Water potential (), fresh mass, apparent elastic modulus (E, quasi-static compression test), and stiffness factor (S, acoustic impulse-response test) were repeatedly determined on radish tubers during desiccation by free transpiration. E showed a two-phased linear relationship with . At water potentials beyond the turgor-loss-region, the slope of this relationship largely declined. In turgescent tubers a considerable part of the variation of E could be explained by water potential. S showed a less clear two-phased relation and wilting seems to exhibit only minor effects on stiffness. Both E and S increased linearly with pressure potential but S showed a weaker correlation with turgor. While the decline in acoustic stiffness with increasing relative water deficit seemed to follow an exponential model, the correlation between E and RWD could be best described by a power function. E and S increased with increasing volumetric modulus of elasticity () in a curvilinear manner. When E and S were compared directly, a curvilinear correlation was found. These results show that S is a good indicator for changes in produce water content. Both parameters are useful to indicate postharvest texture changes. However, the results point toward the possibility that S is less related to short-term changes of product rigidity than E. Bei frischen gartenbaulichen Produkten ist die Textur ein wichtiger Qualittsparameter. Allerdings beinhaltet der Texturbegriff eine Vielzahl von unterschiedlichen Produkteigenschaften. Diese Vielschichtigkeit bedingt, dass eine objektive instrumenteile Analyse immer nur einen Teilaspekt der Produkttextur erfassen kann. So bestimmen der Wasserzustand, die physikalischen und chemischen Zellwandeigenschaften und die Gewebestruktur interaktiv die Druck- bzw. Zugfestigkeit und die elastischen Eigenschaften eines Produktes. Diese Gren wiederum bestimmen in erster Linie die Textur. Kurzzeitige nderungen der Textur, wie sie etwa durch ungnstige Bedingungen beim Transport und im Verkauf hervorgerufen werden, knnen sich funktionell von solchen Vernderungen unterscheiden, wie sie in der Langzeitlagerung auftreten. In den letzten Jahren wurden neue Methoden wie etwa die akustische impuls-response"-Technik verfgbar, die eine zerstrungsfreie Analyse der elastischen Texturkomponente ermglichen. Wasserpotential, osmotisches Potential and Turgor lassen sich bei vielen Produkten mit Hilfe der Druckbombenmethode in Kombination mit Druck-Volumen-Analysen ebenfalls nichtdestruktiv erfassen. Mit diesen Anstzen wurde ein Experiment konzipiert, das eine umfassende Untersuchung des Einflusses des Wasserzustandes auf verschiedene Gewebeelastizittsparameter erlaubt. Wasserpotential (), Frischmasse, scheinbarer Elastizittsmodul (E, quasi-statischer Kompressionstest) und Steifheitsfaktor (S, akustische impuls-response-Test) wurden wiederholt an Radieschen bestimmt, die bei freier Transpiration kontinuierlich austrockneten. E zeigte dabei eine zweiphasige, lineare Abhngigkeit vom Wasserpotential. Nach Unterschreiten des Welkepunktes verringerte sich die Steigung dieser Beziehung drastisch. Bei turgeszenten Knollen lsst sich die Variation von E primr auf die nderung des Wasserpotentials zurckfhren. S zeigte eine weniger deutlich ausgeprgte zweiphasige Beziehung wobei Welken nur einen geringen Einfluss auf den dynamischen Steifheitsfaktor auszuben scheint. Sowohl E als auch S nehmen linear mit dem Druckpotential zu, jedoch ist die Korrelation zwischen S und dem Turgor deutlich schwcher. Whrend die Abnahme des dynamischen Steifheitsfaktors mit zunehmendem relativen Wasserdefizit (RWD) offensichtlich einem exponentiellen Modell folgt, lsst sich die Korrelation zwischen E und RWD am besten mit einer Potenzfunktion beschreiben. Sowohl E als auch S zeigen eine nichtlineare Beziehung mit dem volumetrischen Elastizittsmodul (). Zwischen E und S besteht eine enge aber ebenfalls nichtlineare Korrelation. Die vorgestellten Ergebnisse verdeutlichen, dass S einen guten Indikator der Vernderungen des Produktwassergehaltes darstellt. Sowohl E als auch S sind wertvolle Parameter zur Bestimmung von Texturnderungen in der Nachernte. Allerdings deuten die Ergebnisse auch darauf hin, dass S ein schlechterer Indikator schneller nderungen der Produktsteifigkeit ist als E.
24126843|Arbuscular mycorrhizae (AM) associations are of great importance in horticultural seedling quality in the Mediterranean region, but information on host dependence and host responsiveness to the fungi species is scarce. Thus, this study was designed to assess the effects of several mycorrhizal fungi species and their cocktail on tomato (Solanum lycopersicon L.) seedling growth, quality and nutrient uptake. Tomatoes were grown in growth medium and inoculated with Glomus (G.) mosseae, G. darum, G. etunicatum, G. intraradices, G. caledonium and cocktail of them. The experiments were carried out three successive years from 1999 to 2001. Plants were harvested once in the first year experiment, but in the second and third year experiments plants were harvested twice at different developmental stage. In experiments, noninoculated, seed inoculation and seedling inoculation were compared. Pre-inoculation and re-inoculation increased growth parameters of tomato seedlings in three years. The inoculated plants produced significantly higher biomass than those of non-inoculated plants. In general, plants re-inoculated at seedling stage had higher growth performance than seed inoculated plants. However preinoculation (seed stage inoculation) have higher mycorrhizal dependency than re-inoculation (seedling stage). All the inoculated plants were extensively colonized by all of the AM fungi species. Inoculated plants flowered earlier than non-inoculated plants. The AM plants generally enhanced content of phosphorus (P) and zinc (Zn) and the G. etunicatum inoculated plants particularly had higher nutrient uptake compared to the other AM plants. Plant response to the mycorrhizal inoculation was different for both inoculation times. There were no specific species showed superiority to others for both inoculation times and three years repetition, however in generally, G. clarum mycorrhiza species gave the highest responses as regarded to measured parameters.
24126705|The physiological basis of rooting is well studied, it is known that certain substances formed in the plant are related to rooting, but their exact chemical composition, way of action, and the relation among them have not been cleared yet. Our aim was to examine the phenological status of the mother plant, the environmental conditions, the biochemical features of the cutting material at the time of collection, and the state of dormancy of buds. We also tried to discover correlations between these factors and rooting potential of cuttings, and also among the factors. The conclusion is that the complex process of rooting can be influenced in direct or indirect ways by the factors under investigation. The possible connections between rooting and the factors examined are shown in a figure.
24134258|The influence of 0, 30, 60 and 120 mM NaCl on seedling emergence and early growth of Tamarindus indica L. was investigated under greenhouse conditions. The first seeds in the non-saline treatment emerged (E1st) 7.5 days after sowing (DAS), 50 % of seeds had emerged (E50) 8.4 DAS, and a maximum of 88.1 % of seeds had emerged 11.8 DAS. Addition of 30, 60 or 120 mM NaCl delayed E1st by 1.5, 4.2 and 7.2 days, respectively, compared to the control. E50 at 30 and 60 mM NaCl was achieved 10.7 and 15.7 DAS, respectively, whereas seeds at 120 mM failed to reach E50. Seedling growth was not markedly affected by 30 mM, but progressively stronger inhibitory effects were observed within the 60 and 120 mM treatments. Der Einfluss von 0, 30, 60 und 120 mM NaCl auf Keimung und Smlingswachstum bei Tamarindus indica L. wurde unter Gewchshausbedingungen untersucht. Die ersten Samen der Kontrolle keimten 7,5 Tage nach der Aussaat. 50 % der Samen waren nach 8,4 Tagen gekeimt und bis zum 11,8 Tag wurde die maximale Keimrate von 88,1 % erreicht. Die Applikationen von 30, 60 bzw. 120 mM NaCl verursachten eine Verzgerung des Keimbeginns um 1,5 (30 mM), 4,2 (60 mM) bzw. 7,2 (120 mM) Tage im Vergleich zur Kontrolle. Eine Keimrate von 50 % wurde nur in den Behandlungen 30 und 60 mM NaCl nach 10,7 bzw. 15,7 Tagen erreicht. In der Behandlungsvariante 120 mM lag die Keimrate unter 50 %. Das Smlingswachstum wurde in der Behandlungsvariante 30 mM NaCl nur geringfgig beeinflusst, bei 60 und 120 mM verringerte sich das Smlingswachstum jedoch deutlich.
24126392|Basic features and special problems of modelling plant/crop development, in this part vernalisation, are reviewed, extended and utilisations in vegetable production are shown.
24126655|Pear-shaped fruits represent a recurrent shape in tomato. Two interesting Italian ecotypes, 'Pera d'Abruzzo' and 'Cuor di Bue di Albenga', which bear, respectively, nearly sphere-shaped and pear-shaped fruits, showed a strong genetic similarity when examined by means of traditional molecular markers, such as RAPDs. Therefore, on the base of previously identified genomic sequences, a CAPS marker was developed. This marker detects the mutation in the locus ovate, that led to the transition from round to pear-shaped fruits, and therefore is useful to distinguish the two groups, 'Cuor di Bue di Albenga' and 'Pera d'Abruzzo'. Furthermore, it can represent a useful tool to recover pear-shaped fruits in breeding programs in which the source of useful genes is a round-shaped accession and the recurrent genotype is a pear-shaped tomato.
24126155|Products containing prohexadione-Ca represent a considerable alternative to antibiotics for the control of secondary fire blight (Erwinia amylovora) in pears as well as in apples. Furthermore, less pathogen incidence is also induced by this compound in apples against scab (Venturia inaequalis), in grapevines against grey mould (Botrytis cinerea), and in several other host-pathogen systems. Clear evidence is available that these effects are primarily due to induced physiological resistance. However, it should not be ruled out that morphological and histological changes caused by prohexadione-Ca might support this effect. Fr die Kontrolle von sekundrem Feuerbrand (Erwinia amylovora) im Birnen- und Apfelanbau stellen Prohexadion-Ca-haltige Produkte eine relevante Alternative zu Antibiotika dar. Behandlungen mit dem Wirkstoff fhren auerdem zu einem geringeren Befall bei Apfel mit Schorf (Venturia inaequalis), bei Reben mit Graufule (Botrytis cinerea) und in weiteren Pflanzenarten mit anderen Pathogenen. Diese Effekte lassen sich primr auf induzierte physiologische Resistenz zurckfhren. Es sollte jedoch nicht ausgeschlossen werden, dass den durch Prohexadion-Ca bewirkten morphologischen und histologischen Effekten eine untersttzende Bedeutung zukommt.
24126324|The experiments were conducted between January and June to investigate the effects of temperature, lighting period and lighting regimes on gerbera (Gerbera jamesonii Bolus.). The plants were subjected to different temperatures (18, 21, 24 and 27 C), lighting periods (10 and 20 h), and different light regimes (10 h, 10 and 20 h in periods of 4 weeks, 10 and 20 h in periods of 6 and 2 weeks, and 20 h). The highest yield was obtained for plants grown at 21 C. Increasing temperature to 24 and 27 C reduced the yield by 21 and 56%, respectively. Increasing temperature also decreased stem diameter, fresh weight and keeping quality. The highest yield was obtained from the plants grown under 20 h lighting period as a total of the whole experimental period. In the first part of the experimental period, when the natural light conditions were poor, plants grown under 20 h lighting period produced the highest yield. However, when the natural light conditions improved in the spring, the plants grown under 10 h lighting period, partly or continuously, produced the highest yield. Die Versuche fanden zwischen Januar und Juni statt, um die Wirkung von Temperatur, Belichtungsdauer und -programmen auf Gerbera (Gerbera jamesonii Bolus.) zu untersuchen. Die Pflanzen wurden bei unterschiedlichen Temperaturen (18, 21, 24 and 27 C), Belichtungsdauer (10 and 20 h) und Belichtungsprogrammen (10 h, 10 und 20 h in 4-Wochen-Intervallen, 10 und 20 h in Intervallen von 6 und 2 Wochen und 20 h) kultiviert. Den hchsten Ertrag erzielten bei 21 C kultivierte Pflanzen. Hhere Temperaturen (24 und 27 C) reduzierten den Ertrag um 21 bzw. 56%. Hhere Temperaturen verringerten auerdem den Stieldurchmesser, das Frischgewicht und die Haltbarkeit. Den hchsten Ertrag insgesamt erbrachten die Pflanzen, die 20 Stunden Licht bekamen. Zu Beginn des Versuchszeitraums, wenn das natrliche Lichtangebot gering war, erzielten die Pflanzen im 20 h-Tag den hchsten Ertrag. Dies nderte sich mit zunehmendem Naturlichtangebot im Frhjahr. Ab diesem Zeitpunkt produzierten die Pflanzen, die teilweise oder vollstndig bei 10 h Zusatzlicht kultiviert wurden den hchsten Ertrag.
24126626|With field trials over 3 years in a commercial organic orchard in Switzerland we have tested the efficacy of Armicarb (potassium-bi-carbonate) for flower thinning in organic apple production. Over time, Armicarb was tested on 11 cultivars, at different application periods, in different concentrations, and always in comparison to other agents that are already allowed for thinning in organic fruit production in the European Union as e.g. lime sulphur, molasses, mechanical ropethinner or combinations of methods. Armicarb proved to be an efficient and reliable thinning agent with an efficacy similar to the now recommended methods with rope device, molasses or lime sulphur but has the advantage to be an environmentally very friendly product. On the other hand, the risk for fruit russeting is comparably elevated especially with cultivars 'Elstari, 'Golden Delicious' and 'Gala'. Finally, we have elaborated cultivar-specific recommendations for the use of Armicarb for thinning purposes, which were the basis for the Swiss Federal approval to use Armicarb for thinning in conventional and organic apple production in 2011/2012.
24126443|The European horticultural sector faces changes in its market environment, such as changes in trade regulations, concentration in the chain-, and environmental concerns. These issues may individually affect the future economic and environmental performance of horticulture. The objective of the present paper is to review partial equilibrium models in terms of their ability to cope with the aforementioned aspects of the horticultural sector. We found that changes in trade regulations are already modelled in a detailed way in horticultural partial equilibrium models. However, chain concentration and environmental concerns are addressed to a much lesser extent in the currently available models.
24126850|Light-emitting diodes (LED) allow narrow-band light to be easily obtained and can be used for narrow-band lighting in plant cultivation, with possible effects on plant growth and development. This study examined use of narrow-band lighting of different wavelengths in the cultivation of ornamental pot plant (Pelargonium and Petunia), tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) transplants and sunflower (Helianthus annuus), either as sole light source in growth chambers, or as endof-day (EOD) treatment in a greenhouse environment. Biometrie measurements on plant growth and measurements of photosynthesis and stomatal conductance showed that when Helianthus was grown exclusively in blue light, stem elongation was greater than when it was grown exclusively in yellow, red, green or white light. Similar results were obtained when blue light was supplied in EOD treatments for Petunia and Pelargonium and for tomato. However, stem elongation was also high when red light was given as EOD treatment to tomato, whereas green light gave the least elongated plants in these conditions. Biomass production was generally not affected by the different EOD treatments. For Helianthus plants grown solely in monochromatic light, plant biomass production was highest in red light. For Pelargonium, photosynthetic rate was highest in blue light. It was concluded that plant response to different wavelengths is species-dependent and that EOD treatment with narrow-band lighting might be useful for plant growth regulation.
24126281|Effects of preplant fertilization and fertigation in strawberry were studied in a field experiment established August 2003 in South-Eastern Norway. Half the field was fertilized at planting and fertigated with a low nutrient rate from spring 2004 (T1), while the second half was unfertilized at planting and instead fertigated with excessive nutrient solution from spring 2004 (T2). In 2005, both treatments were fertigated with an equal fertilizer rate. None of the treatments caused any deficiency symptoms during the trial, but, of all parameters recorded, only the number of leaves and leaf area compensated for the early limitation in nutrients. Yield and berry size in T1 were significantly higher compared to T2 in the first harvest year, despite the low fertigation rate in T1. The following year, no significant effects of treatments were found. Leaves and petioles for chemical analyses were sampled several times during the trial for sap and dry matter analysis. Few significant differences between treatments were found, but it appeared that sap analysis provides most information on the present uptake in leaves. However, neither leaf dry mass analyses nor sap analyses reflect yield potential when conditions during plant establishment are suboptimal.
24126104|Four alternatives to chemical control of Botrytis in strawberries were assessed, plant spacing, nitrogen fertilisation, post-harvest defoliation and finger harrowing. Increasing plant spacing generally caused reduced Botrytis incidence, but only in one of the two cultivars included and not always significantly. Increased application of nitrogen (0 to 80 kg N ha-1) caused increased incidence of Botrytis in one of three years of trial and had generally no effect on total yield. Post-harvest defoliation, though having a positive effect on total yield in some instances, only reduced the incidence of Botrytis significantly in one of three years, when the general level of infection was high. Finger harrowing, primarily being used in weed control as an alternative to chemical control, had a negative influence on total yield, and no consistent effect on Botrytis incidence was recorded. In all treatments, annual variation in Botrytis incidence, and differences among cultivars, were more important than variation among treatments. Thus, it is concluded that the use of less susceptible cultivars may be more important than the use of any of the cultural methods included in this experiment. Optimising cultural methods may, however, be of greater importance in susceptible strawberry cultivars with their greater potential losses due to Botrytis. Der Einfluss des Pflanzabstands, der Stickstoffdngung, der Nachernteentbltterung und des Striegeins wurde bei den Sorten 'Korona' und 'Elsanta' als jeweilige Alternative zur chemischen Bekmpfung von Botrytis bei Erdbeeren untersucht. Weite Pflanzabstnde reduzierten den Botrytisbefall, allerdings nur bei 'Korona' und hufig statistisch nicht signifikant. Steigende Stickstoffmengen (0 bis 80kg N ha-1) erhhten den Befall in einem von drei Jahren, hatten aber keinen Einfluss auf den Ertrag. Striegeln, das vor allem zur mechanischen Unkrautbekmpfung durchgefhrt wird, war ohne Einfluss auf den Botrytisbefall, reduzierte aber den Ertrag. Nachernteentbltterungen knnen den Ertrag erhhen, Botrytis wurde aber nur in Jahren mit sehr hohem Befall reduzieren. Die Unterschiede im Botrytisbefall zwischen den Jahren und den Sorten waren wesentlich grer als der Einfluss der vier Behandlungen. Deshalb ist der Einsatz wenig empfindlicher Sorten zur Reduzierung des Botrytisbefalls wesentlich entscheidender als die hier geprften Behandlungen. Beim Anbau von sehr anflligen Sorten ist die Optimierung der Kulturtechnik von groer Bedeutung.
24126666|In order to optimise light quality and quantity for plant growth, new photoselective greenhouse covering materials were developed containing different fluorescent pigments (Blue, Red1, Red2, Red3) in different concentrations. Excitation of all fluorescent pigments took place around 365 nm. Blue pigments showed fluorescence between 410480 nm, Red1 and Red2 pigments between 610630 nm and Red3 pigment between 600690 nm, while also major parts of the blue and green part of the spectrum were absorbed. Fluorescence effects of the plastic film prototypes were rising with increasing pigment concentration. However, fluorescent effects were small. While Blue pigments increased total PAR transmission with 13 %, Red pigments were found to lower PAR transmission. Only pigment Red3 was able to increase the red:far-red ratio with 10 %. The effect of the different film prototypes on strawberries 'Elsanta' was investigated in two experimental periods in 2002 and 2003. Blue fluorescent films seemed to be favourable for strawberry fruit production. Whether this was due to.the higher PAR transmission of the films or to a light quality effect cannot be concluded from the experiments. Blue fluorescent films caused strawberry production to increase with 11 %, mainly because of an increased fruit number. On the other hand Red3 fluorescent film delayed fruit production significantly. Total yield under Red3 was 10 % lower than under the Reference film. This effect was due to the lower PAR transmission of the film and the increased red:far-red ratio. Fruit colour was only slightly influenced by the different film prototypes. Fruits grown under Blue fluorescent films were slightly brighter but more saturated than fruits grown under the Reference film, which were darker but paler. Fruits grown under Red3 fluorescent film were apparently brighter but more saturated than fruits grown under the Reference film. In experiments in 2002, that was also observed for fruits grown under the Red1 and Red2 fluorescent film. Furthermore, dry matter and ash content of the fruits were determined, as well as the electric conductivity (EC) and sucrose concentration in the fruit sap. However, no significant differences could be detected. Fruits grown under Blue films were found to be slightly more acid (lower pH) than fruits grown under the Reference film, fruits grown under the Red films were found to be less acid. Since the sweetness to sourness ratio can be used as quality index, which fairly correlates with the taste quality, we can conclude that fruits grown under the Blue films taste less sweet than fruits grown under the Reference, Red1 and Red2 films. Several vegetative growth parameters were measured such as number of leaves, total leaf area, mean leaf area, leaf fresh weight, leaf dry weight and dry matter content of leaves, but no significant differences were detected. No correlation between vegetative growth parameters and fruit production was found. From these results it can be concluded that newly developed greenhouse films containing blue fluorescent pigments have good potentials to affect growth and development of Fragaria  ananassa 'Elsanta' positively, whereas red fluorescent films are less promising
24126684|The alteration of heavy and light yield in pistachio CPistacia vera L.) has been reported to result from the abscission of flower buds on heavily yielding trees during the summer, but the regulatory mechanisms involved in this bud abscission remain unclear. The present study was conducted to examine the role of nonstructural carbohydrates in flower bud abscission. Carbohydrates (glucose, fructose, sucrose and starch) content was measured in flower buds, leaves, fruits, current shoots, one year old shoots and roots of eight 'OFF' and eight 'ON' 30 year old pistachio cv. 'Owhadi' trees at monthly intervals between flowering and harvest. The flower bud abscission percentage was recorded every 15 day during seed growth. The amounts of soluble sugars and starch were relatively similar in many organs both in 'OFF' and 'ON' trees until 70 days after bloom. Thereafter, the amount of soluble sugars and starch in 'ON' trees declined in many organs during nut development. During the same period, various organs of 'OFF' trees began to accumulate greater concentration of soluble sugars and starch and surpassed the amount measured in those of 'ON' trees. There was a high and significant negative correlation between bud, leaf and root sucrose and fruit glucose and flower bud abscission. This indicates that soluble sugars in the many part of tree could be related to the alternate bearing in pistachio.
24126677|The effects of paclobutrazol, light emitting diodes (LEDs) and sucrose on inflorescence development in vitro were investigated in photoperiodically day-neutral Euphorbia millii. Paclobutrazol, a growth retardant, was mandatory to the shift from the vegetative to reproductive stage. Inflorescence development in the apical bud was observed after 2130 days of culture on MS media containing paclobutrazol. Different light qualities also influenced in vitro flowering of E. millii. Highest flowering percentage (90 %), number of inflorescences per plantlet, percentage of mature inflorescences and early flowering (days to first bloom) were observed in fluorescent light. Among the LEDs treatments, red light reduced the flowering percentage, whereas blue, red plus far-red and blue plus far-red LEDs stimulated flowering in vitro. Sucrose concentration also influenced the growth and morphogenic patterns of in vitro plantlets. Sucrose at 5 % enhanced inflorescence differentiation. The results indicate that inflorescence development of E. millii plantlets in tissue culture can serve as a potential model to study the role of paclobutrazol, LEDs and sucrose in the flowering process of a day-neutral plant that does not require external signals for flower induction. Also the technique described here can be used as an efficient method for production of early, synchronized and profuse flowering of E. millii pot plants.
24126344|Quality control of growing media mainly consists of chemical analysis and plant assays, which are time-consuming and expensive. Objectives were to test, if near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) is capable to predict several chemical characteristics and plant assay results for a large population of various peat-based growing media having a wide range of humification degrees and characteristics (n=320). Near-infrared measurements (including the visible range, 4002,500 nm) were done with fresh and with dried and ground growing media in order to predict their chemical characteristics and the results of plant assays using Chinese white cabbage (Brassica napus var. Chinensis). Spectral manipulations (taking 1st to 3rd derivative after baseline correction), cross-validation and a modified partial-least squares regression method were used to develop equations over the whole spectrum. Generally, NIRS predicted the chemical characteristics of growing media and the yields of fresh weight of Chinese white cabbage and rating better for fresh than for dried and ground samples. The pH and contents of total carbon and nitrogen, salt, P, K, mineral nitrogen, NO3-, NH4+ and the NH4+:NO3- ratio were predicted well: the RSC (ratio of standard deviation of laboratory results to the standard error of cross-validation) ranged between 2.0 (NO3-) and 4.4 (total carbon), the correlation coefficient (r) of measured against predicted values was higher or equal to 0.9 and the regression coefficient (a) was between 0.9 and 1.1. The good predictions of total carbon content may have been partly due to a clustering of data. Fresh weight yield of Chinese white cabbage was predicted well for the subpopulation of the growing medium with a degree of humification of H2 to H3 on the von Post humification scale (RSC=2.0, r=0.9 and a=0.9). The fresh weight yields for the subpopulations of growing media with H5 to H6 and with H7 were predicted satisfactorily (RSC =1.6 and 1.9, respectively). The prediction of the rating at harvest (overall plant impression) was satisfactorily for two subpopulations (RSC=1.7, r=0.8 and a=0.9 or 1.0) but unsatisfactory for the one with H5 to H6 (RSC=1.3). Overall, NIRS is sufficiently reliable to be used for standard chemical analysis for growing media and it is promising in predicting the results of plant assays.
24126884|The present investigation was conducted during two consecutive growing seasons in order to study the response of 'Flame Seedless' grape to exogenous salicylic acid (SA) application. The postharvest quality was studied in relation to pre-harvest salicylic acid spray (PSS) or/and post- harvest salicylic acid immersion (PSI) treatments. 'Flame Seedless' grape stored at 0 C for up to 30 plus 2 days at 20 C. The results showed that all SA treatments significantly increased the storage life of clusters. Furthermore, PSS + PSI treatment was effective in reducing weight loss, fungal decay, berry softening rate and rachis browning and maintained berry appearance. In addition, all SA treatments enhanced the increase of total phenolic content of berry skin after the shelf life period, while total soluble solids content (TSS) and titratable acidity (TA) did not vary in this concern. These results indicated that pre-harvest spray SA and postharvest immersion have potential for increasing storage life of 'Flame Seedless' grapes and maintaining their quality.
24126357|Effects of sucrose and maltose at the concentrations 0.5 and 1.0 M, availability of the phloroglucinol (PG) at the concentrations 0 and 10 M, and three levels of pH (5, 6 and 7) in a basic medium containing 1.63 mM H3BO3, 1 mM KNO3, 1.27 mM Ca(NO3)2.4H2O and 0.45 mM CaCl2 on the pollen germination in vitro of globe artichoke (Cynara scolymus L.) were studied. A separate experiment for each type of sugar was carried out. Analyses of percentages for pollen germination showed that main effects of sugar concentrations and availability of PG in the media were significant only in the sucrose experiment where 1.0 M sucrose and 10 M PG resulted in a germination of 49.8 and 38.9 %, respectively. The main effect of pH however was significant only in the maltose experiment where pH 5 resulted in 29.5 % germination while pH 7 gave only 15.3 %. Regarding the two factor interactions, statistical significance was found only for the combinations of sucrose concentrations  pH and PG  pH in the maltose experiment and sucrose concentrations  PG in the sucrose experiment. The interaction of all three factors was significant only in the maltose experiment where the highest pollen germination was 40.8 % for the combination of 0.5 M maltose  10 M PG  pH 6, whereas in the sucrose experiment interaction of the three factors was not significant and the highest pollen germination was 68.9 % for the combination of 1.0 M sucrose  0 PG  pH 5. Bursting of the pollen tube as well as elongation of the tube in a spiral manner occurred in all the media tested. Overall, more favourable germination was obtained from the sucrose media to which addition of phloroglucinol at 10 M concentration was useful. The factors influencing pollen germination of the globe artichoke and their relevance for its improvement were discussed. Untersucht wurde, welchen Einfluss Saccharose und Maltose (Konzentrationen 0.5 und 1.0 M), die Zugabe von Phloroglucinol (PG, Konzentrationen 0 und 10 M) und drei pH-Werte (5, 6 and 7), in einem Grundmedium mit 1.63 mM H3BO3, 1 mM KNO3, 1.27 mM Ca(NO3)2.4H2O und 0.45 mM CaCl2, auf die in vitro-Pollenkeimung von Gemse-Artischoken (Cynara scolymus L.) haben. Fr jeden Zuckertyp wurde ein separater Versuch durchgefhrt. Auswertungen der Pollenkeimung zeigten, dass der Einfluss der Zuckerkonzentration und der PG-Zugabe nur in der Kombination, 1.0 M Saccharose und 10 M PG mit 49.8 bzw. 38.9 % Keimung, signifikant war. Nur mit Maltose war bei einem pH von 5, mit 29.5 % Keimung (15.3 % bei pH 7) ein signifikanter Einfluss des pH-Wertes nachweisbar. Betrachtete man die Interaktionen zwischen jeweils zwei Faktoren, so wiesen nur die Kombinationen Zuckerkonzentration  pH und PG  pH im Maltose- sowie die Kombination Zucker-Konzentration  PG im Saccharose-Versuch statistische Unterschiede auf. Die Interaktion zwischen allen drei Faktoren war nur im Maltose-Versuch in der Kombination von 0.5 M Maltose  10 M PG  pH 6 und der damit erzielten Pollenkeimung von 40.8 % signifikant. Im Saccharose-Versuch war die Pollenkeimung bei der Kombination 1.0 M Saccharose  0 PG  pH 5 mit 68.94% zwar am grten, doch war dieser Wert nicht statistisch gesichert. Geplatzte oder spiralig wachsende Pollenschluche traten bei allen getesteten Medien auf. Alles in allem war das Saccharose-haltige Medium, dem Phloroglucinol in einer Konzentration von 10 M zugefgt war, fr die Pollenkeimung am geeignetsten. Die Faktoren, die die Pollenkeimung beeinflussen, und die Mglichkeiten ihrer Optimierung wurden diskutiert.
24126314|In Chinese Chestnut the reproductive biology is of great importance for nut development and production. In commercial chestnut growing the main problem is the high percentage of empty cupulae or nuts, resulting in not satisfactory yields. About the causes of this phenomenon, which has to be seen in the reproductive processes, not much is known. To elucidate this problem, investigations on the fertization biology in the early ripening cultivar 'Zaodali' and to some extent in the late ripening 'Jiujiazhong' and different pollinizers were undertaken in two experimental orchards in the province Yunnan, South China. The most important results are: The relation of male and female flowers and catkins was almost identical in the 3 experimental years, i.e. 45 male catkins to one female or 1000 male flowers to one female. Per bisexual catkin only one involucrum (female flower) was evident. 'Hand' and 'open pollination' resulted in a fruit set of about 95 % at the time, when the isolation bags were removed and about 90 % shortly before harvest. Under conditions of 'open pollination' the percentage of empty cupulae was lowest with 17,6 to 38 %, and more than 50 % of cupulae with one or two nuts were formed. In this investigation, pollen tube growth in vivo of Chinese Chestnut was first described at all. In almost all flowers less than 6 stigmas with pollen tubes were evident. Normally, one to two tubes could penetrate into the ovary containing 1218 ovules, and only one tube per flower did enter the ovule. Pollen tube growth from the stigma to the ovule lasted for about one month. In about 20 % of the female flowers with pollen tubes being evident in the ovules, no fertilization occurred. In these investigations important problems on fertilization biology of the cultivar 'Zaodali' and other could be elucidated: 1. missing fertilization, 2. degeneration of zygote, proembryo and young embryo, 3. delayed differentiation of ovules and female gametophyte, and 4. abnormal embryo sacs. Missing fertilisation has to be seen as the most important problem for nut formation. By hand pollination the percentage of empty cupulae or nuts could be reduced and the number of cupulae with 3 nuts increased. No apomictic embryo development was evident. Thus, to improve the production capacity adequate cross-pollination has to be assured by mixed lantings with other varieties and overlapping blooming times, since the effective pollination period in Chinese Chestnut is rather long. Bei der Chinesischen Esskastanie ist die Reproduktionsbiologie fr die Nussbildung und damit fr die Ertrge von groer Bedeutung. Ein wichtiges Problem beim Anbau dieser Obstart in China ist der hohe Anteil leerer Cupulae bzw. Nsse, die zu einer unbefriedigenden Erntemenge fhren. Die Ausbildung von leeren (tauben) Nssen wird als ein Problem der Reproduktionsbiologie angesehen. Zur Aufklrung dieser Fragen wurden befruchtungsbiologische Untersuchungen berwiegend bei der frhreifenden Sorte 'Zaodali', teilweise auch bei der sptreifenden 'Jiujiazhong' und verschiedenen Bestubersorten in 2 Versuchsanlagen in der sdchinesischen Provinz Yunnan durchgefhrt. Das Verhltnis von weiblichen und mnnlichen Blten bzw. der weiblichen und mnnlichen Ktzchen war in den 3 Versuchs jhren (19992001) praktisch gleich. So kam bei 'Zaodali' auf 1000 mnnliche Blten eine weibliche und auf 45 mnnliche Bltenktzchen ein weibliches bzw. zweigeschlechtliches. Je zweigeschlechtlichem Bltenktzchen war in der Regel nur ein Involucrum (weibliche Blte) vorhanden. Bei allen Bestubungsvarianten mit 'Zaodali' waren nach Entfernen der Isoliertten Fruchtanstze von ber 95 % und vor der Ernte noch von ber 90 % in allen 3 Versuchs jhren festzustellen. Zwischen den verschiedenen Vatersorten gab es im Fruchtansatz keine signifikanten Unterschiede. Bei Freier Abblte fiel der Anteil leerer Cupulae am niedrigsten aus, und er lag zwischen 17,6 und 38 %. Bei den Varianten 'ohne Bestubung' und 'Selbstung' war der prozentuale Anteil leerer Cupulae hher. Bei Freier Abblte enthielten ber 50 % der Cupulae eine oder zwei Nsse, und insgesamt war ungefhr die Hlfte der Cupulae leer. In der vorliegenden Arbeit wurde das Pollenschlauchwachstum bei der Chinesischen Esskastanie zum ersten Mal detailliert untersucht. Etwa 36 Tage nach der Bestubung konnten ca. 100 M lange Pollenschluche in der Narbenspitze beobachtet werden. Bei fast allen Blten waren in weniger als 6 Narben, also etwa der Hlfte, Pollenschluche vorhanden. In der Regel wuchs nur ein Pollenschlauch in eine Samenanlage ein, und je Blte drangen nur ein oder zwei Pollenschluche in Samenanlagen ein. Die Dauer des Pollenschlauchwachstums von der Narbe bis zu den Samenanlagen betrug ungefhr ei nen Monat. In etwa 20 % der weiblichen Blten mit Pollenschluchen in den Samenanlagen erfolgte keine Befruchtung. Diese Untersuchungen haben wichtige befruchtungsbiologische Probleme bei der Sorte 'Zaodali' und anderen aufgedeckt: 1. fehlende Befruchtung, 2. Degeneration von Zygote, Proembryo und jungen Embryonen, 3. verzgerte Differenzierung von Samenanlagen und des weiblichen Gametophyten sowie 4. abnormal ausgebildete Embryoscke. Die fehlende Befruchtung ist als das Hauptproblem bei der Nussbildung anzusehen. Durch Handbestubung konnte der Anteil leerer Cupulae bzw. Nsse reduziert werden. Eine apomiktische Samenentwicklung konnte nicht festgestellt werden. Um die Produktivitt bei der Chinesischen Esskastanie zu erhhen, ist es notwendig fr eine ausreichende Fremdbestubung durch Mischpflanzungen mit anderen Sorten und sich ausreichend berschneidenden Blhzeiten zu sorgen, zumal die effektive Bestubungsperiode bei dieser Obstart relativ lang ist.
24126860|Apples (Malus domestica Borkh.) are highly susceptible to fungi causing rots, especially in organic orchards where these rots cause major economic losses. Since the use of conventional fungicides is prohibited or restricted in many countries and in organic production, altogether, one alternative is to make use of bioactive compounds that can inhibit fungal growth on apples. Antifungal effects of alkylresorcinols (ARs), isolated from rye bran, were used in two different bioactive emulsions and tested in vitro as well as in vivo against two fungi, Penicillium expansum and Neofabraea perennans, which cause important storage diseases in apple. For both fungi, application of AR emulsions produced a 50 % reduction in mycelial growth and spore germination. The in vivo tests were carried out on woundinoculated fruit of foin apple cultivars, 'Aroma', 'Ingrid Marie', 'Frida' and 'Gloster'. Spraying the inoculated fruit with ARs decreased lesion area diameter caused by P. expansum with 1752 % and lesion area diameter caused by N. perennans with 3177 %, depending on the apple cultivar. For each fungus, the inhibitory effect of ARs was stronger in those apple cultivars that appear to have the highest level of disease tolerance, i.e. the smallest lesions on the control fruit. The level of sun exposure of the fruit had neither significant influence on the decay nor in the inhibitory effect obtained with the postharvest application of ARs.
24126462|The FIBRALUR wood fibre substrate has been successfully evaluated as substrate in tomato and melon culture. This material could replace the current hydroponic substrates like rockwool or perlite. The appearance of wood fibre bags for hydroponics culture deteriorates throughout crop cycles and it is a commercial disadvantage for farmers. In this work four new variants of wood fibre substrates that improve the disadvantage of original material have been evaluated and compared with coconut fibre and perlite. Experiment had been carried out for two tomato crop cycles in a greenhouse placed in Barasoain (Navarra). Seven substrates were used in a random block design. Measures of crop yield and quality as well as evaluation of substrates properties were carried out. Physical-chemical properties were determined at the beginning and at the end of each crop cycle. In the first cycle wood fibre substrates were significantly less productive than coconut fibre and significantly higher than perlite. No yield differences were obtained at the second cycle. With regard to substrates properties, an increase of water retention in wood fibre substrates and an increase of air volume in coconut fibre were observed throughout crop cycles.
24127676|The light harvest in plants depends on both incident light and light penetration into the plant mass. A diffuse (Sca) and a direct (Dir) light environment were designed with otherwise identical climates using controlled daylight gas-exchange chambers. The incident photosynthetic photon flux densities (PPFD) of Sca and Dir were identical but a significantly higher Photosynthetic photon flux fluence rate (PPFFR) was found in the Sca treatment, demonstrating the higher light diffuseness. The hypothesis was that increased diffuseness of light results in increased net photosynthesis and growth and the objectives were to quantify this for a chrysanthemum canopy in Sca and Dir. After four weeks the Sca-treated plants had 9% higher shoot dry weight, a higher number of lateral shoots and a larger leaf area than the Dir treatment. Despite the greater leaf area of Sca and increased internal shading, the average CO2 assimilation rate per canopy leaf area for Sca were 5% greater than Dir. We have shown that light measurements that include the proportions of diffused vs. direct light are important. Classic quantum sensors may not always give the most correct estimation of incident light in a canopy. Diffused light increased the growth of chrysanthemum leaves and shoots, and we suggest including measurements of both PPFD and PPFFR in experiments to secure that the effects of diffused light are clarified.
24126139|The aim of the research was to study the influence of different mulches (plastic and straw) and additional fertilization on the content of anthocyanins and vitamin C in strawberry (Fragaria x ananassa) 'Bounty' fruits. Experiments were carried out at the Institute of Horticulture of the Estonian Agricultural University in 2002 and 2003. The results of the experiments showed that fertilization and straw mulch compared to plastic mulch had significant negative influence on content of anthocyanins in strawberry fruits in both years. The best treatment for the health of consumers based on increased anthocyanin content would be growing strawberries with plastic mulch with only pre-planting fertilization. In 2002, liquid fertilizer increased vitamin C content in fruits grown with plastic mulch; and decreased the content of vitamin C in fruits grown with straw mulch. In 2003, strawberry fruits from plastic mulch variant also contained more vitamin C than those from straw mulch variant, but fertilization did not affect content of vitamin C in any variant. Ziel der Untersuchung war es, den Einfluss unterschiedlicher Mulchtypen (Folie und Stroh) und von Zusatzdngung auf den Anthocyan- und Vitamin C-Gehalt von Erdbeerenfrchten (Fragaria x ananassa) der Sorte 'Bounty' zu ermitteln. Die Untersuchungen fanden in den Jahren 2002 und 2003 am 'Institute of Horticulture of the Estonian Agricultural University' statt. Die Ergebnisse zeigten in beiden Jahren, dass Dngung und Strohmulch im Vergleich zu Folienmulch einen negativen Einfluss auf den Anthocyan-Gehalt der Erdbeeren haben. Unter dem Aspekt Verbrauchergesundheit ist, bedingt durch den gesteigerten Anthocyan-Gehalt, die Kultur von Erdbeeren auf Folie in Kombination mit einer Dngung vor dem Pflanzen die beste Variante. Im Jahr 2002 erhhten flssige Dnger den Vitamin C-Gehalt von Erdbeeren auf Folienmulch und minderten ihn bei auf Strohmulch kultivierten Frchten. 2003 enthielten die Erdbeerfrchte auf Folienmulch wiederum mehr Vitamin C als jene auf Strohmulch, allerdings hatte die Dngung in keiner Variante Einfluss auf den Vitamin C-Gehalt.
24126729|Two ancient, late-bearing apple varieties (cv. 'Diacciata' and 'Limoncella') were characterized using micromorphological, genetic and biochemical approaches, and by comparison with two commercial varieties, 'Gala' and 'Golden Delicious'. There were significant differences between the two varieties. Cryo scanning electron microscopy of frozen-hydrated leaves showed strong differences in epidermal cells, epicuticular waxes, stomatal structure, density, and leaf lamina internal tissues. We compared the two varieties at 21 SSR alleles; the mean heterozygosity and power of discrimination were 0.76 and 0.60, respectively. SSR loci GD 147 and GD 162 were sufficient to discriminate the two late-bearing varieties. 'Limoncella' had the most soluble solids, total phenolics, total flavonoids, epicatechin and chlorogenic acid. This cultivar also had higher acidity and peroxynitrite scavenging capacity. 'Diacciata' had the highest average weight, flesh firmness, catechin and caffeic acid content. These two ancient, late-bearing varieties demonstrate to be well adapted to the Mediterranean climate, in which they produce high-quality fruit with good organoleptic properties and high concentrations of desirable phytochemicals. Therefore, they may be of interest as a source of genes for breeding programs in Mediterranean basin.
24126500|Experimental studies in the past years recommend the use of sodium bicarbonate (SBC) as a fungicidal agent in prevention and control of apple scab disease. Generally, the research aim of previous studies was investigating the effects of SBC on spore germination and germ tube elongation of Venturia inaequalis [(Cooke) G. Wint.] fungus. However, this study monitors the accumulation of sugars and organic acids as well as individual and total phenolic compounds in apple fruit at technological ripening stage as affected by the use of SBC against Venturia inaequalis. Three different treatments were established: water-treated control, fungicide treated and 1 % SBC solution. The use of SBC demonstrated a reduction in the disease symptoms on apple fruits and leaves. The fruit quality parameters (mass and fruit firmness) did not differ among treatments. On the other hand, fruit treated with SBC contained lower amounts of total phenolics, flavonols and flavan-3-ols compared to fruit from the control treatment. SBC treated fruit also contained higher amounts of sugars than fruit from the control treatment.
24127046|Buckwheat (Fagopyrum sp.) is a well-known source of many health beneficial components such as starch, dietary fibres, proteins, and polyphenols such as flavonoid glycosides, especially rutin, and phenolic acids. Use of buckwheat for medicinal and health purposes demands that the content of these components are as high as possible. In this study, we have investigated the influence of species, variety, nitrogen (N) fertilization, and harvest time on the content and yield of polyphenols in buckwheat aerial parts and seeds. Experiments were performed as a joint project in both Denmark and Germany; however, all treatments were not repeated in both locations. Three varieties of normal buckwheat (F. esculentum) and one of tartary buckwheat (F. tataricum) were included in the experiments on the two locations. Experiments with high and low N fertilization were performed on both locations and in Germany combined with three harvest times of aerial parts. Seeds at maturity were only harvested and analysed in the Danish experiments. For aerial parts of both normal and tartary buckwheat from both locations there was no significant effect on the concentration of flavonoids with either increasing at high and low N-application. N-fertilization did not show a conclusive affect on the concentration of phenolic acids in the aerial parts as well. Concentration of rutin in aerial parts harvested at flowering stage in the Danish experiments varied between 1.7 and 3.9 % dry matter content (DM) in tartary buckwheat and between 2.2 and 2.4 % DM in normal buckwheat. Harvest time or development stage had a highly significant influence on the concentration of polyphenols in the aerial parts, as concentrations at harvest before flowering were up to four times higher than for harvest after flowering. In aerial parts the species/varieties did not differ significantly in content of polyphenols, except for kaempferol-3- O-rutinoside, which was higher in the tartary buckwheat 'Lifago' than in the other normal buckwheat varieties. Seeds of tartary buckwheat had a significantly higher concentration of flavonoids than normal buckwheat. In tartary buckwheat seeds, the kaempferol-3- O-rutinoside content decreased with increasing N-fertilization, but no significant effect on flavonoids in normal buckwheat seeds was found. Concentration of rutin in normal and tartary buckwheat seeds differed significantly and was between 0.03 % and 0.11 % DM and 1.4 % and 1.5 % DM, respectively.
24126635|Fruit yield, tree size, and trends in leaf-nutrient content (N, P, K, Ca, Mg, Fe, Zn, Mn, and Cu) have been studied for two years (20012002) in a mature orchard of mango trees (Mangifera indica L. cv. 'Keitt'), grafted onto four rootstocks: Gomera-1, Gomera-3, Turpentine, and 13/1. The fruit yield was the highest on Gomera-3 and lowest on Turpentine, the fruit being significantly smaller with Gomera-1 than the other rootstocks. In addition, the height, canopy volume and the trend of the trunk cross-sectional area (TCSA) were greater with Gomera-3. Higher macronutrient contents of cv. 'Keitt' were found on Gomera-3 and lower on 13/1 rootstock trees. A similar trend was found with the micronutrients but lower contents on Gomera-1. Thus, leaf-nutrient content correlated with fruit yield of cv. 'Keitt' on Gomera-3, indicating the effectiveness of this combination.
24134256|The highbush blueberry cultivar 'Duke' was subjected to controlled atmosphere storage up to seven weeks under following CO2 + O2 conditions (kPa CO2 + kPa O2): 0.03+21 (=air, control); 6+18; 12+18; 18+18; 24+18; 12+2 and 18+2 at 01 C storage temperature. The changes of ripening and quality parameters of the berries were monitored in 23 weeks intervals. In contrast to the experience with other fruits, blueberry fruits reacted to increasing CO2 partial pressure (>12 kPa) with loss of firmness, regardless of the height of O2 pressure. Only berries stored in 612 kPa CO2 maintained their firmness on acceptable values. The titratable acidity concentration of the fruits from the different storage treatments reacted in a similar way: Increasing CO2 partial pressure from 12 to 24 kPa resulted in an increasing loss of acidity. However, total soluble solids (TSS) of fruits did not differ significantly between all treatments in most sampling dates. Moreover, the respiration rate of fruits stored under increasing CO2 levels was significantly higher than that of air-stored fruits. Respiration quotient (RQ) values by these fruits reflected an enhanced consumption of organic acids as respiration substrate. Incidence of fungal diseases, mainly Botrytis cinerea, could be efficiently controlled by higher CO2 levels. In this respect, 6 kPa CO2 proved to be not high enough to retard the fungal growth. Weight loss of berries was minimized by all storage conditions. The overall judgment of the effect of storage conditions on fruit quality through the consumer sensory test revealed that blueberry fruits could be kept under air conditions at 01 C up to three weeks in acceptable condition. However, for a longer storage period up to six weeks, it is highly recommended to store highbush blueberries cv. 'Duke' under high CO2 levels up to 12 kPa without O2 reduction. Higher CO2 level more than 12 kPa can not be recommended due to negative impact on flavour, firmness, and acidity content. Kulturheidelbeeren der Sorte 'Duke' wurden whrend sieben Wochen bei folgenden CA-Bedingungen gelagert (kPa CO2 + kPa O2): 0.03+21 (=Luft, Kontrolle); 6+18; 12+18; 18+18; 24+18; 12+2 und 18+2 bei 01 C Lagertemperatur. Die nderung der Reife und Qualittsmerkmale der Beeren wurde im Abstand von 23 Wochen untersucht. Im Gegensatz zu den Erfahrungen bei der CA-Lagerung mit anderen Frchten zeigten Heidelbeeren einen Festigkeitsverlust mit steigendem CO2-Partialdruck (>12 kPa) in der Lageratmosphre, unabhngig von der Hhe des Sauerstoffgehalts. Nur bei Beeren, die bei CO2-Werten von 6 bzw. 12 kPa gelagert wurden, blieb die Festigkeit bei akzeptablen Werten. Die Konzentration an titrierbarer Sure in den Beeren verhielt sich hnlich: ber 12 kPa steigende CO2-Partialdrcke in der Lageratmosphre fhrten zu einem zunehmenden Sureverlust. Dagegen ergaben sich im Gehalt der Beeren an lslicher Trockensubstanz zwischen den verschiedenen Lagervarianten an den meisten Untersuchungsterminen keine signifikanten Unterschiede. Die Atmungsrate der Beeren, die bei steigenden CO2-Gehalten gelagert wurden, nahm ebenfalls im Vergleich zu den Kontrollfrchten in Luft deutlich zu. Der Atmungsquotient (RQ) deutete auf einen verstrkten Sureverbrauch als Atmungssubstrat hin. Der Pilzbefall, hauptschlich durch Botrytis cinerea, konnte mit steigenden CO2-Werten wirksam kontrolliert werden, wobei 6 kPa CO2 allerdings in der pilzhemmenden Wirkung noch zu gering war. Der Gewichtsverlust der Beeren konnte bei allen Lagervarianten minimal gehalten werden. Durch Verkostung der Beeren in einem Geschmackstest wurde eine Gesamtbeurteilung der Wirkung der Lagerbedingungen auf die Beerenqualitt vorgenommen. Dabei wurde festgestellt, dass die Luft/1 C-Kontrollfrchte bis drei Wochen bei akzeptabler Qualitt gelagert werden knnen. Eine lngere Lagerung von Kulturheidelbeeren der Sorte 'Duke' bis zu 6 Wochen Dauer ist nur bei hheren CO2-Werten von 12 kPa und ohne O2-Absenkung mglich. Bei CO2-Werten ber 12 kPa muss mit zunehmend negativem Einfluss auf den Geschmack, die Festigkeit und den Suregehalt der Beeren gerechnet werden.
24126177|During the summer, flowers produced in Mediterranean greenhouses suffer reduced quality, with short, thin stems and small buds. As crop ages, quality declines in winter as well. Farmers try to solve these problems with cooling methods such as shading or wet pads. Such treatments have harmful side effects and they are often ineffective. The present study tested long term effects of cooling methods on yield and quantity. It was found that during the first half of the summer common cooling methods had no beneficial effects. During the second half of the summer, especially with aged crops, these methods increased crop yields but not their quality. It has been suggested that the quality of flowers declines, especially in mid-summer, as result of deficient carbohydrate supply for each stem. The deficiency is produced by the big population of young flower shoots, which emerge at this time of the year, especially on aged crop. The effect of cooling treatments is weak when the young crop has a fresh transpiring canopy. When crops become older, the cooling treatments help the plants to produce longer stems. In summer, and especially in a system of old crops, a high percentage of the flower stems fail to reach marketable length, and then cooling methods increase the number of marketable flowers. Whrend des Sommers weisen in mediterranen Gewchshusern produzierte Schnittblumen eine schlechtere Qualitt mit kurzen, dnnen Stngeln und kleinen Knospen auf. Mit zunehmendem Pflanzenalter verschlechtert sich die Qualitt auch im Winter. Die Anbauer versuchen das Problem mit Manahmen wie Schattieren oder nassen Kissen zu lsen. Dies fhrt hufig zu schdlichen Nebeneffekten und ist hufig nutzlos. Die vorliegende Untersuchung prft die Langzeitwirkungen von Khlmethoden auf Ertrag und Quantitt. Dabei zeigte sich, dass bliche Khlmethoden in der ersten Sommerhlfte keine positive Wirkung haben. In der zweiten Sommerhlfte und besonders bei alternden Kulturen steigern diese Methoden die Erntemenge aber nicht die Qualitt. Es wurde vermutet, dass die Qualitt der Blten vor allem in der Sommermitte durch die Mangelversorgung der Einzeltriebe mit Kohlenhydraten hervorgerufen wird. Der Mangel wird durch die groe Anzahl junger Triebe, die besonders von alternden Kulturen zu dieser Jahreszeit gebildet werden, verursacht. Die Wirkung der Khlmethoden ist gering, wenn die jungen Pflanzen frisches transpirationsfhiges Laub haben. Wenn die Pflanzen lter werden, hilft ihnen die Khlbehandlung lngere Stiele zu bilden. Im Sommer, und vor allem in einem alten Pflanzenbestand, erreicht ein hoher Prozentsatz Bltenstiele nicht die vermarktungsfahige Lnge, in diesen Fllen erhhen die Khlmethoden die Anzahl vermarktungsfhiger Blten.
24126321|The effect of ultra low oxygen concentration on the storability of onions (Allium cepa L. var. cepa) was studied. Onions (cv. 'Sherpa', type Rijnsburger) had been kept during 9, 18,27 and 36 weeks at 2 C in atmospheres with 0.5, 1 and 21 % O2. Quality assessment was effected after each storage time and the following period of 3 weeks of shelf-life. After storage in 1 % O2, quality maintenance of the onion bulbs was much better than after storage in 21 % O2, which was characterised by less weight loss, reduced respiration intensity and inhibited sprouting in spring. Lowering the O2-concentration to 0.5 % in the storage atmosphere led to similar results concerning respiration intensity and sprout inhibition, but weight loss was accelerated during the last storage period between March and May. Some onion bulbs were covered by a slight mould layer after storage until March or May, which arose presumably from high humidity in some of the storage containers. In none of the bulbs internal injury or off flavour due to fermentation metabolism were noticed. Es wurde der Einfluss sehr niedriger Sauerstoffkonzentration auf die Lagerfahigkeit von Speisezwiebeln (Allium cepa L. var. cepa) untersucht. Die Zwiebeln (Sorte 'Sherpa', Typ Rijnsburger) wurden 9, 18, 27 und 36 Wochen lang bei 2 C in Atmosphren mit 0,5, 1 und 21 % O2 gelagert. An jedem Auslagertermin und nach einer dreiwchigen shelf-Iife"-Phase erfolgte eine Qualittsbeurteilung. Lagerung in 1 % O2 fhrte zu erheblich besserer Qualittserhaltung als Lagerung in Luft, was sich besonders an geringerem Gewichtsverlust, reduzierter Atmungsintensitt und verzgertem Austrieb im Frhjahr zeigte. Absenkung der O2-Konzentration in der Lageratmosphre auf 0,5 % fhrte zu hnlichen Ergebnissen bezglich Atmungsintensitt und Austriebsverzgerung, aber der Gewichtsverlust wurde in der Lagerzeit von Mrz bis Mai beschleunigt. Einige Zwiebeln zeigten leichten Pilzbefall nach Lagerung bis Mrz oder Mai, der vermutlich durch hohe Feuchte in den Lagerbehltem verursacht wurde. Es wurden weder innere Gewebeschdigungen der Zwiebeln noch Fremdgeruch auf Grund von Grungsreaktionen festgestellt.
24126469|We study firms' technical efficiency and associated implications for investment planning for Finnish greenhouse firms. A firm's technical efficiency is measured using intra-technology and inter-technology measures. A firm's investment strategies include investments in new energy-intensive assimilation light technology, new greenhouses to enlarge the scale of operation, or a combination of the two. Alternatively, a firm's strategy is not to invest. The central question is whether one technology outperforms another, controlling for firms' technical efficiency. The main result is that the new technology in and by itself does neither provide the highest technical performance nor maximise the net cash flow for all types of firms. Small family firms reach highest technical efficiency and maximum net cash flow using a traditional energy-extensive technology with current greenhouse area. For inefficient large firms, partially adoption of new energy- intensive technology is required to fully exploit efficiency potentials. If the large firms are efficient, the area expansion with assimilation lights increase the net cash flow too. The results also indicate that the more inefficient firms the minor price reduction they tolerate when investing in energy-intensive technology.
24126232|The effects of temperature (4 or 20 C) and photoperiod (9 or 18 h) on vegetative growth, cold acclimation and induction of dormancy in six red raspberry (Rubus idaeus L.) cultivars were studied in two experiments at different times of a year. Cane elongation and the number of new nodes were more strongly affected by temperature than by photoperiod. Photoperiod had very little effect on growth at 4 C, but short day reduced growth at 20 C. Cold hardiness of raspberry canes and buds was only affected by treatment temperature. In most cultivars deeper dormancy was induced at 20 C than at 4 C, and the effect of photoperiod was dependent on temperature. During spring experiment growth was more vigorous and the plants reacted more readily to changes in photoperiod than during fall experiment. However, greater cold hardiness and deeper dormancy were induced during fall experiment. Die Einflsse von Temperatur (4 oder 20 C) und Photoperiode (9 oder 18 h) auf das vegetative Wachstum, die Klteakklimatisierung, und die Induktion der Wachstumsruhe von sechs Himbeersorten (Rubus idaeus L.) wurden in zwei Versuchsreihen in unterschiedlichen Jahrezeiten untersucht. Das Rutenwachstum und die Anzahl neuer Nodien wurden wesentlich strker von der Temperatur als von der Photoperiode beeinflusst. Bei 4 C hatte die Photoperiode einen sehr geringen Einfluss, allerdings verminderte der Kurztag das Wachstum bei 20 C. Die Widerstandsfhigkeit der Ruten und Knospen gegen Klte wurde nur von der Behandlungstemperatur beeinflusst. Bei den meisten Sorten wurde bei 20 C eine tiefere Wachstumsruhe induziert als bei 4 C, und die Wirkung der Photoperiode war von der Temperatur abhngig. Bei der Untersuchung im Frhjahr war das Wachstum strker und die Pflanzen reagierten bereitwilliger auf die Wechsel der Photoperiode als im Herbst. Allerdings konnten im Herbst eine grere Widerstandsfhigkeit gegen Klte und tiefere Wachstumsruhe induziert werden.
24126681|Cucurbit species respond better to small tunnels than Solanaceous species but this declaration is not always true. Watermelon Citrullus lanatus (Thunb.) Matsum & Nakai on plastic mulch is well documented in North latitudes, however, small tunnels have not been well evaluated in Mexican conditions. The outlined hypothesis is that plastic mulch plus small tunnels will increase early and total yield. Watermelon plants were grown on plastic mulch alone or plus small tunnels to study their effect on air and soil temperature in growth, early and total yield. Treatments were: a) clear plastic mulch (C), b) black plastic mulch (B), c) B plus a Vispore cover of polypropylene (15 g m-2) (BV), d) B plus a white cover of perforated polyethylene (BW), e) B plus a clear perforated polyethylene (BC), f) B plus an Agribon cover of polypropylene (17 g m-2) (BA), and g) bare soil Control. Total yield was higher compared to the Control (p<0.05) by 46 t ha-1 (170 %), 43 t ha-1 (159 %), 42 t ha-1 (153 %), 36 (132 %), 36 t ha-1 (131 %), and 13 t ha-1 (49 %) on C, B, BW, BA, BV, and BC, respectively; the Control recorded 27 t ha-1. Results on this study indicate total yield is increased using soil mulch alone, while higher accumulation of degree days air and soil under small tunnels, had no positive effect in growth, early and total yield of watermelon plants.
24126368|Coriander green herb is popular in Eastern Turkey. Fresh herbage yield, essential oil content and essential oil composition in the vegetative parts of small-fruit coriander (Coriandrum sativum L. var. microcarpum DC.) grown in two different seasons (spring after autumn sowing and summer after spring sowing) and harvested at different growth stages were examined. The experimental location was at Tokat, north Anatolia, Turkey. The oil composition was identified by GC-MS. Fresh herbage yield regularly increased from the rosette stage to full flowering in both growing seasons. In the summer season (spring sowing) dry matter yield was lower as a result of a shorter vegetative period compared to the spring season (autumn sowing). Essential oil content was low in early growing periods and increased regularly in subsequent periods. (E)-2-decenal and decanal of aliphatic aldehydes are main components of the herb oil. (E)-2-decenal had higher percentages at pre-flowering stage and full flowering stage compared to the early growing stages. Considering the growing season, plants growing in the summer season had striking differences for some components such as (E)-2-decenal and methyl eugenol. Because of low herbage yield and high (E)-decenal contents, a potential irritant, spring periods is more suitable for cultivating coriander as fresh or dried herbal usage at the experimental site.
24126401|Agrobacterium rhizogenes and its rol-(root loci)-genes offer the opportunity to introduce new genes for traits contributing to quality improvement in floriculture. Several ornamental plant species have successfully been transformed with rol-genes causing changed root morphology termed root inducing (Ri)-phenotype. The typical Ri-phenotype is a compact plant with a characteristic leaf morphology and improved rooting ability. The Ri-phenotype is due to the effect of the four rol-genes rolA, rolB, rolC and rolD. These rol-genes are contributing to different morphological effects in the plant. The rol-genes can be introduced all together into the plants by natural transformation using wildtype A. rhizogenes, which presents a transformation method without applying recombinant DNA technology. The rol-genes can also be transferred to a plant as single genes or in different combination by recombinant DNA technology. This makes transformation with A. rhizogenes and its rol-genes a promising method in molecular breeding for creating new diversity in ornamental species. Therefore, the aim of this review paper is to review the uses of A. rhizogenes and its rol-genes for quality improvement in ornamentals.
24126704|Resistance of leaves and fruit clusters of Vitis vinifera 'Albario' clones to downy mildew (Plasmopara viticola) using non-grafted plants and plants grafted on 110-R. All the experimental plants had been growing since 1993 at the Misin Biolgica de Galicia, Spain. Both in terms of their leaves and clusters, some clones were more resistant to infection than others. Some were more susceptible to primary attack than secondary attack, while others showed the opposite characteristics. The degree of susceptibility to disease was independent of the rootstock used or indeed of whether the plant had been grafted or not.
24126158|The plant growth regulator prohexadione-Ca, which is an inhibitor of 2-oxoglutarate dependent dioxygenases, acts as an and-gibberellin and also reduces fire blight and scab of apple and pear. This beneficial side effect is related to a transient alteration of the flavonoid metabolism in apple and pear target tissues. This paper reviews the changes of the composition of flavonoids and phenylpropanoids occurring in leaves treated with prohexadione-Ca. An alternative flavonoid pathway is described leading to the formation of 3-deoxycatechins, which are uncommon in apple and pear. As biochemical prerequisites for this change in metabolism the substrate specificity of key enzymes is demonstrated. Der im Obstbau als Antigibberellin eingesetzte Wachstumsregulator Prohexadion-Ca hemmt 2-Oxoglutarat abhngige Enzyme. Als positiver Nebeneffekt von Prohexadion-Ca-Behandlungen wird bei Apfel und Birne eine erhhte Widerstandsfhigkeit gegenber Feuerbrand und Schorf beobachtet, was auf einer vorbergehenden Vernderung des Flavonoidstoffwechsels beruht. In diesem bersichtsbeitrag werden die Vernderungen der Zusammensetzung der Flavonoide und Phenylpropanoide dargestellt. Die Behandlung von Apfel- und Birnenblttern fhrt zur Bildung der fr diese Pflanzen ungewhnlichen 3-Deoxycatechine ber einen alternativen Biosyntheseweg. Als biochemische Voraussetzung fr diesen Weg wird die Substratspezifitt von Schlsselenzymen dokumentiert.
24126236|An estimate of water losses caused by canopy interception is required to calculate soil water balances or to parameterise models of crop water demand. A gamma-scanning technique allows to measure non-destructively and accurately as well as continuously over a short-time period the amount of intercepted water in a vegetable crop canopy. To evaluate intercepted amounts, spinach (Spinacia oleracea L. var. foliosum Hegi 'Boeing') canopies were treated with controlled amounts of irrigation water supplied by a sprinkler (to simulate rain and irrigation conditions) or a nozzle (to reproduce dewfall and wetting agents used in plant protection). For plant masses from 1.5 to 5.0 kg m-2, the storage of water was from 0.25 to about 1.00 mm when water amounts from 3 to 21 mm were applied by sprinkler. Using amounts of 0.38 and 0.75 mm water supplied by nozzle, the interception increased from 0.05 to almost 0.40 mm for spinach fresh masses between 0.25 and 2.25 kg m-2. Here, we assume that the accuracy of mass determination of spinach is equivalent to broccoli that was examined in a previous study by weighing broccoli plants at different growth stages. The error of measurement was estimated within <5 % for fresh plant masses of about 0.100 kg m-2, and within <1 % for masses >1.25 kg m-2. Die Bestimmung der Wasserverluste durch Interzeption an Pflanzen ist fr die Berechnung von Wasserbilanzen oder die Ermittlung von Parametern in Modellen zum Wasserbedarf bedeutsam. Die Anwendung der Gamma-Scanning-Technik erlaubt es, zerstrungsfrei, sehr genau und kontinuierlich in kurzen Zeitabstnden die Menge von Haftwasser an Gemsepflanzen zu messen. Spinatbestnde der Sorte 'Boeing' wurden mit definierten Mengen an Beregnungswasser mittels eines Regnersegmentes mit Tropfschluchen (zur Simulation von Niederschlag oder Bewsserung) oder mit einer Dse (zur Simulation von Tau oder Befeuchtung beim Pflanzenschutz) behandelt. An Pflanzenbestnden mit Massen von 1.5 bis 5.0 kg m-2 haftet eine Wassermenge von 0.25 bis etwa 1.00 mm, wenn 3 bis 21 mm mit dem Regnersegment ausgebracht werden. Bei der Ausbringung von Wasser mit der Dse in den Mengen von 0.38 und 0.75 mm liegt die Menge an Haftwasser bei 0.05 bzw. bei 0.40 mm fr Spinatbestnde mit Frischmassen von 0.25 bis 2.25 kg m-2. Es kann angenommen werden, dass der Fehler fr die Massebestimmung <5 % betrgt, wenn Pflanzenbestnde von etwa 0.100 kg m-2, untersucht werden und <1 % betrgt, wenn Bestnde von >1.25 kg m-2 untersucht werden, wie dies bei Messungen an Brokkoli zu verschiedenen Wachstumsstadien zuvor ermittelt worden ist.
24126301|Wild species could be useful for the genetic improvement of pepino (Solanum muricatum Aiton) fruit quality. We studied several agronomic and physico-chemical traits in accessions of A. muricatum (EC-37), wild relatives Solanum caripense (EC-40) and Solanum tabanoense (EC-26), and their corresponding interspecific hybrids. Interspecific hybrids involving EC-37 had yield and fruit weight intermediate between the cultivated and the wild parents, while yield and mean fruit weight of EC-37EC-26 were greater than those of EC-40EC-37. Dry matter content (DM) was higher in the wild accessions (>13 %) than in the cultivated pepino (<10 %). Wild species had similar (S. caripense) or lower (S. tabanoense) concentrations of total sugars than S. muricatum. EC-37 and EC-26EC-37 had similar relative concentrations of the soluble sugars glucose, fructose, and sucrose, while sucrose was predominant (>60 %) in the rest of the tested species and hybrids. Concentration of organic acids was much higher in EC-26 and EC-40 (total acids 2500 mg 100 g-1 and pH<4.0) than in EC-37 (275 mg 100 g-1 and pH=5.36), while interspecific hybrids had concentrations more similar to S. muricatum than to wild species. Citric acid was the predominant organic acid in the composition of all the studied accessions (>75 % of total acids). Ascorbic acid content of S. caripense and some interspecific hybrids was more than three times greater than that of S. muricatum. The results indicate that the studied wild species can be utilized to modify and improve the composition of pepino, especially by increasing acidity and ascorbic acid content. Wildarten knnten fr die Verbesserung des genetischen Hintergrunds der Fruchtqualitt von Pepinos (Solanum muricatum Aiton) ntzlich sein. Wir haben zahlreiche anbautechnische und physikalisch-chemische Eigenschaften in Akzessionen von A. muricatum (EC-37) und den verwandten Wildarten, Solanum caripense (EC-40) und Solanum tabanoense (EC-26), sowie den jeweiligen interspezifischen Hybriden untersucht. Die Erntemengen und durchschnittlichen Fruchtgewichte lagen bei interspezifischen Hybriden mit EC-37 zwischen denen der Kultur- und Wildart, wobei die von EC-37EC-26 grer waren als jene von EC-40EC-37. Die Trockenmasse (DM) war in Wildvorkommen (>13 %) hher als in Kulturpepinos (<10 %). Die Wildarten wiesen gleiche (S. caripense) oder geringere (A. tabanoense) Gesamtzucker-Konzentrationen auf als A. muricatum. EC-37 und EC-26EC-37 hatten hnliche relative Konzentrationen der lslichen Zucker Glukose, Fruktose und Saccharose, wohingegen die Saccharose in den restlichen Arten und Hybriden vorherrschend (>60 %) war. Die Konzentrationen organischer Suren waren in EC-26 und EC-40 (Gesamtsuren 2500 mg 100 g-1 und pH<4.0) hher als in EC-37 (275 mg 100 g-1 und pH=5.36), die Konzentrationen in den interspezifischen Hybriden lagen nher bei S. muricatum als bei den Wildarten. Zitronensure war in allen Vorkommen die vorherrschende Sure (>75 % der Gesamtsure). Der Ascorbinsure-Gehalt von S. caripense und einiger interspezifischen Hybriden war drei Mal hher als in S. muricatum. Die Ergebnisse weisen darauf hin, dass die untersuchten Wildarten zur Vernderung und Verbesserung der Zusammensetzung von Pepinos, vor allem im Hinblick auf einen hheren Gesamtsure- und Ascorbinsuregehalt, geeignet sind.
24126703|Calcium carbide (CaC2) and 2-chloroethylphosphonic acid (CEPA) are commonly applied in Thailand on wholesale markets and by the fruit processing industry to accelerate postharvest ripening of mangoes. Aiming at systematic investigation of the effects that the ripening accelerators exert on the development of chemical and physical fruit quality attributes, the impact of these agents and temperature on postharvest ripening of three Thai cultivars of prime commercial relevance were evaluated. Mature-green fruits of cvs. 'Nam Dokmai', 'Kaew', and 'Chok Anan' were ripened under daily monitoring for 7 days at 242 C and 332 C, representative for ambient temperature during fruit distribution in Europe and Thailand. At the applied dose (10 g kg-1 of fruit), CaC2 showed a significant effect only on firmness and peel colouration, except for peel colour of 'Nam Dokmai'. Mangoes treated with CaC2 were softer and therefore more sensitive to mechanical damage during handling and processing. Apart from minor differences in the contents of titratable acids of 'Nam Dokmai' and 'Kaew' observed at some days, no influence of the treatment with CEPA at a solution concentration of 200 mg kg-1 on fruit firmness, colour of peel and mesocarp, and chemical fruit quality was observed. When eating ripeness was defined based on the characteristic developments of total soluble solids and the sugar/acid ratio, the required ripening time was not affected by the chemical treatments, whereas exposure to the higher temperature resulted in shortening by one day. Consequently, the use of the ripening agents was not justified from an economic point of view. Depending on the physiological maturity at the time of application, they may even worsen overall fruit quality through different enhancement of external and inner quality parameters with exclusive stimulation of fruit softening and peel colour changes.
24126479|The rooting of stem cuttings of Protea 'Susara' (P. magnifica x P. susannae) was examined with regard to auxin application, basal wounding and position on the shoot. Three levels of indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) (0, 2000 and 4000 ppm) and four types of cuttings (terminal and basal cuttings from the last flush of growth and terminal and subterminal cuttings prepared with complete growth flush from terminal and subterminal flush of growth, respectively) were used. Terminal and basal cuttings from the last flush of growth treated with 4000 ppm of IBA can be employed for the propagation of this protea. The type of cutting did not have an overall effect on rooting (P > 0.05). Terminal stem cuttings prepared with complete growth flush can also be used for the propagation of Protea 'Susara'. The presence of auxin, or basal wounding, or a combination of both did not improve rooting significantly. Wounding negatively affected rooting. However, in similarly prepared subterminal cuttings, including the complete subterminal flush of growth, the presence of auxin (2000 or 4000 ppm of IBA) was required in order to achieve analogous results.
24126711|The aim of this study was to determine the effects of different rootstocks on yield characteristics and resistance capability against to Fusarium wilt, Verticillium wilt and Meloidogyne incognita in pepper cultivation. 'California Wonder' and 'Kandil' bell pepper varieties were grafted on 'Snooker F1', 'Dro F1', NGS and NGC rootstocks in the experiment. Nongrafted and selfgrafted plants were used as control. Grafted plants were cultivated in open field conditions with sterilized growth media. The experiment was conducted in randomized split plots design with three replications. Yield was increased significandy by rootstocks in infected plots and it was higher than control plants in uninfected plots. The highest yield was obtained from 'Kandil'  'Dro F1' combination in Fusarium oxysporium experiment, 'Kandil'  'NGS' combination in Verticillium dahlia experiment and 'California Wonder'  'Snooker F1' combination in Meloidogyne incognita experiment. Study showed that using of grafted plants was more effective than nongrafted and selfgrafted plants for obtaining resistance against to Fusarium oxysporium and Meloidogyne incognita by depending on rootstocks but, not against to Verticillium dahliea.
24126157|Prohexadione-Ca is a new generation growth retardant which inhibits dioxygenase enzymes activity mimicking 2-oxoglutarate and affecting both gibberellin and phenolic compounds metabolism. Several reports regarding the use of this growth retardant in apple and pear show the positive effects of prohexadione-Ca on yield and average fruit weight. On the contrary only a few trials have been performed regarding the effect of prohexadione-Ca on tree photosynthesis. This paper reports studies carried out over four-years on apple and pear to evaluate the photosynthetic efficiency of trees treated with prohexadione-Ca: whole-canopy experiments were performed on apple field trees, and leaf measurements on potted apple scions and field pear trees. Prohexadione-Ca positively affected leaf mass area and clorophyll content; net photosynthesis was often increased after application with the exception of a late spring application on vigorously growing trees. From these studies the positive influence of prohexadione-Ca on fruit weight and yield might be attributed to improved ecophysiological efficiency. Positiver Einfluss von Prohexadione-Ca auf Gaswechsel und Chlorophyll-Gehalt bei Apfelund Birnenbumen. Prohexadion-Ca ist ein Wachstumsregulator der neuen Generation, der die Enzymaktivitt von Dioxygenasen durch Imitieren von 2-Oxoglutarat hemmt und sowohl den Gibberellin- als auch den Phenol-Stoffwechsel beeinflusst. Zahlreiche Untersuchungen zur Anwendung des Wachstumhemmers zeigten bei pfeln und Birnen einen positiven Einfluss von Prohexadion-Ca auf Erntemenge und durchschnittliches Fruchtgewicht. Nur wenige Versuche befassten sich mit der Wirkung von Prohexadion-Ca auf die Photosynthese der Bume. Die hier vorgestellte Arbeit umfasst einen Zeitraum von vier Jahren, in dem mittels Kronen-Untersuchungen an ausgepflanzten Apfelbumen sowie Blattmessungen an getopften Apfelklonen und ausgepflanzten Birnenbumen, die Photosyntheseleistung von mit Prohexadion-Ca behandelten Apfel- und Birnbumen untersucht wurde. Dabei zeigte sich, dass Prohexadion-Ca eine positive Wirkung auf die Gre der Blattflche und den Chlorophyll-Gehalt hat. Die Nettophotosyntheserate steigerte sich hufig nach der Anwendung; eine Ausnahme stellte hierbei die Anwendung im spten Frhjahr an starkwchsigen Bumen dar. Unsere Untersuchungen zeigen, dass die positive Wirkung von Prohexadion-Ca auf Fruchtgewicht und Erntemenge auf eine verbesserte kophysiologische Leistungsfhigkeit zurckzufhren sein drfte.
24126879|Last decade radicchio become more popular vegetable, as a result, of the increasing demand of fresh-cut vegetables where radicchio contribute to the more attractive appearance. This study evaluate the growth season (normal and late transplanting, 31/7 and 12/9 respectively) of two radicchio cultivars ('Rosso di Chioggia' and 'Rosso di Verona') on their quality parameters (yield and chemical composition) as well as the storage potential of heads from one harvest. Cultivar had no significant effect on the yield or quality parameters of radicchio. On the contrary, yield as well as percentage of marketable heads significantly affected by growth season with drastic decrease for the late growth period. However, heads from the late growth period had higher content of SSC, nitrates, phenolics and antioxidant activity. The storage of radicchio heads at 0 C resulted in significant decrease on their visual quality after 7 days however after 21 days of storage heads were over the limit of marketability.
24126182|Two tepary (TB) bean lines (NE#19 and NE#5) were subjected to progressive water depletion and rewatering (RW). Under a condition of mild water depletion (MWD), the leaf relative water content (RWC) was similar in both lines and did not significantly differ from the respective well-watered (WW) seedlings. Line NE#19 under MWD conditions significantly increased stomata resistance and reduced transpiration rate compared to WW seedlings. Also it showed tendency towards reduction in the intercellular CO2 and elevated net photosynthesis. Its stem and root mass, specific leaf mass (SLM) increased while the portion of leaf area to 1 mg dry root mass (LA/RDM) decreased compared to the WW ones. NE#5 did not show such changes in gas exchange and plant growth parameters under MWD conditions when compared to the WW. Tocopherols (TPH) increased under MWD conditions but no changes occurred in malondialdehyde (MDA) and chlorophyll (Chl) content. Carotenoid and ascorbic acid (AA) contents in NE#19 and peroxidase (POD) activity in NE#5 increased. The rewatered (RW) seedlings showed a decline in TPH and MDA in both TB Unes. AA decreased while carotenoid content remained high in NE#19. POD activity increased in NE#5. The fluorescence parameter Fv /Fm was higher under both MWD and RW than WW conditions for NE#5 but the change in NE#19 was not significant. When subjected to severe water depletion (SWD), the RWC significantly decreased and both TB lines suffered severe dehydration in spite of 11 % higher RWC in NE#19 than in NE#5. Compared to the respective WW, both lines had a significant sharp reduction in plant growth (leaf, stem and root) and SLM. However, NE#19 significantly exceeded the WW in LA/RDM and R/S ratio when subjected to SWD. TPH contents in severely dehydrated leaves were 2 (NE#5) to 3 (NE#19) folds the level in the WW ones. NE#5 showed an increase in POD activity but AA contents decreased. In contrast, POD activity in NE#19 did not elevate while AA significantly declined. Chi and carotenoid contents decreased in both lines. While fluorescence parameter Fv /Fm decreased in both TB lines, the F0 showed stability only in NE#5. After the rehydration, NE#19 remained showing high level of TPH and MDA, a decrease in Fv /Fm and an increased Fo value. This occurred in spite of the elevated AA content. Distinctively NE#5 showed a recovery after rehydration and it is regarded as a more tolerant to withstand severe water deficit than NE#19. Zwei Tepary Bohnen-Linien (TB) (NE#19 and NE#5) wurden einem fortschreitenden Wassermangel ausgesetzt und danach wiederbewssert (RW). Unter moderatem Wassermangel (MWD) war der relative Wassergehalt (RWC) in beiden Linien hnlich und unterschied sich nicht von den optimal bewsserten (WW) Pflanzen. In NE#19 stieg der stomatre Widerstand unter moderatem Wassermangel (MWD) deutlich an, wobei die Transpirationsrate im Vergleich zu den optimal bewsserten Pflanzen reduziert war. Zustzlich waren Tendenzen hinsichtlich einer Abnahme des interzellulren CO2 und einer gesteigerten Nettophotosyntheserate zu erkennen. Stngel und Wurzelmasse, sowie die spezifische Blattmasse (SLM) stiegen an, whrend das Verhltnis der Blattflche zu 1 mg Wurzeltrockenmasse (LA/RDM) im Vergleich zu den optimal bewsserten Pflanzen abnahm. NE#5 zeigte nicht solch starke Vernderungen in der Gasaustauschrate bzw. in den Wachstumsparametern unter moderatem Wassermangel. Der Tocopherolgehalt (TPH) stieg unter moderatem Wassermangel an, keine Unterschiede traten jedoch im Malondialdehyd- (MDA) bzw. im Chlorophyllgehalt (Chl) auf. Die Carotenoid- und Ascorbinsuregehalte (AA) stiegen in der Linie NE#19 an, whrend die Peroxidase- (POD-) Aktivitt in der Linie NE#5 stieg. Die wiederbewsserten Pflanzen (RW) zeigten eine Abnahme in TPH und MDA in beiden Linien. AA nahm ab, whrend der Carotinoidgehalt bei NE#19 auf einem hohen Niveau blieb. Die POD-Aktivitt stieg in NE#5 an. Der Fluoreszenzparameter Fv /Fm war hher unter MWD und bei RW im Vergleich zu den optimal versorgten Pflanzen bei NE#5, jedoch waren die Vernderungen bei NE#19 nicht signifikant. Bei den Pflanzen unter starkem Wassermangel (SWD) nahm der RWC signifikant ab und beide Linien zeigten starke Dehydratationssymptome, wobei der RWC 11 % hher in NE#19 im Vergleich zu NE#5 war. Beide Linien zeigten eine signifikante Reduktion hinsichtlich der Wachstumsparameter und des SLM. NE#19 bertraf signifikant die WW hinsichtlich des LA/RDM-und des R/S-Verhltnisses unter SWD. Die TPH-Gehalte in stark dehydrierten Blttern lagen bis zu 2- (NE#5) oder dreimal hher (NE#19) im Vergleich zu den optimal bewsserten Pflanzen. NE#5 zeigte einen Anstieg der POD-Aktivitt, whrend die AA-Gehalte abnahmen. Hingegen stieg die POD-Aktivitt in NE#19 nicht an, whrend AA signifikant abnahm. Die Chl- und Carotenoidgehalte nahmen in beiden Linien ab. Whrend die Fluoreszenzparameter Fv /Fm in beiden TB-Linien sank, blieb F0 in NE#5 stabil. Nach Wiederbewsserung, zeigte NE#19 hohe Gehalte in TPH und MDA, eine Abnahme im Fv /Fm und einen Anstieg des F0-Wertes. NE#5 erholte sich strker nach Wiederbewsserung und kann als die tolerantere Sorte gegenber einem Wassermangel angesehen werden.
24126834|The influence of partial and total defoliation of grafted vines, performed during the period of intensive growth (July, August, September), on the accumulation of carbohydrates in roots, canes and rootstock was studied in Vitis vinifera L. ssp. sativa cv. 'Riesling', clone 239 grafted on the rootstock 'SO4', clone 31. Total defoliation in July resulted in the lowest percentage yield of grafted vines and the lowest weight of roots. In canes, total defoliation caused the lowest total carbohydrate content (TCC) in September, whereas in roots, the lowest TCC was established in August and September, in particular, owing to the reduced starch content. The most significant difference in the TCC between partial and total defoliation was observed in August.
24126285|Purple-fleshed Hylocereus genotypes with a considerable potential for the European fruit market were investigated with respect to fruit development in their natural habitat. Commonly commercialised genotypes in Central America such as 'Nacional', 'Orejona', 'Rosa' and 'San Ignacio' were analysed 17, 21, 24, 28 and 32 days after anthesis. Parameters evaluated were fruit dimensions, fruit and skin weight, skin and flesh firmness, total soluble solids, pH, titratable acidity and skin colour. Upon ripening, skin colour changed from green to red accompanied by a decrease in fruit weight, firmness and titratable acidity. The behaviour of the genotypes allowed to group them in two categories: 'Nacional' and 'Orejona' bearing smaller fruits with shorter ripening time belong to the first, whereas the second comprise the genotypes 'Rosa' and 'San Ignacio' with larger fruits and delayed fruit ripening. Moreover, comparisons between genotypes at the initial stage of colour change indicated that flesh firmness may be a suitable parameter to assess fruit maturity. From the findings obtained, fruits from 'Nacional' are considered more suitable for processing, whereas those from 'San Ignacio' may be preferred for fresh fruit consumption.
24126128|Shelf-life of celery is improved when stored under controlled atmosphere. However, as far as we know, there are very few reports about the effect of modified atmosphere packaging (MAP) on the quality and post-harvest life of green celery. Recommendations about plastic films that can be used are also scarce. The objective of this research was to study the effect of passive MAP on the post-harvest behaviour, chemical and sensorial quality changes and physiological disorders development of cold stored celery. Green celery stalks (cultivar 'Trinova') were packed in plastic bags made of either oriented polypropylene (OPP), low density polyethylene (LDPE) and macro perforated polypropylene as control (air) and stored at 4 C for 4 weeks. Under MAP conditions equilibrium atmospheres were reached after 10 days of storage at about 8-9 kPa O2 + 7 kPa CO2 and 8 kPa O2 + 5 kPa CO2 within OPP and LDPE bags respectively. Decay developed in control celery, affecting nearly 5 % of the stalks, and growth of internal leaves continued, lowering quality and reducing shelf life. However, both MAP inhibited these processes, decreased the development of pithiness and retained the sensory quality, reducing both the development of the butt end cut browning and chlorophyll degradation. OPP film resulted in a package atmosphere that differed most from air and celery stored in this material was rated to have an appearance most similar to that at harvest. Die Lagerfhigkeit von Sellerie kann durch Lagerung in kontrollierter Atmosphre verbessert werden. Allerdings gibt es nach unseren Informationen nur sehr wenige Untersuchungen darber, wie sich bei modifizierter Atmosphre (MAP) die Art der Verpackung auf die Qualitt und das Nachernteverhalten von Bleichsellerie auswirkt. Ebenso selten sind Empfehlungen fr geeignete Plastikfolien. Gegenstand dieser Untersuchung war, die Wirkung von passiver MAP hinsichtlich des Nachernteverhalten, der nderungen in den chemischen und sensorischen Eigenschaften und der unerwnschten physiologischen Prozesse bei khlgelagerter Sellerie zu untersuchen. Grne Selleriestngel der Sorte 'Trinova' wurden entweder in Polypropylen (OPP) oder leichtem Polyethylen (LDPE) und als Kontrolle in Polypropylen-Lochfolie verpackt und bei 4 C 4 Wochen gelagert. Unter MAP-Bedingungen wurde die Gleichgewichtsatmosphre nach 10-tgiger Lagerung in OPP-Tten mit etwa 8-9 kPa O2 + 7 kPa CO2 bzw. in LDPE-Tten mit 8 kPa O2 + 5 kPa CO2 erreicht. Beim Kontrollsellerie waren annhernd 5 % der Stngel angefault, die inneren Bltter wuchsen weiter und verminderten so die Qualitt und Haltbarkeit beim Endverbraucher. Beide MAP-Folien hemmten diese Prozesse, verminderten die Entwicklung von Markigkeit und konservierten die sensorische Qualitt, in dem sie sowohl das Verbrunen der Schnittflchen als auch den Chlorophyllzerfall reduzierten. OPP-Folie fhrte zu einer Atmosphre im Beutel, die sich am meisten von der Kontrolle in Polypropylen-Lochfolie unterschied. In dieser Folie verpackter Sellerie wurde hinsichtlich uerer Merkmale annhernd wie frisch geernteter eingestuft.
24126247|Micropropagated 'Red Fuji' apple plants undergone three levels of water stress were studied to assess the effects on sorbitol metabolism. Sorbitol was the major soluble carbohydrate (47.5 % in leaves and 65.0 % in roots, respectively) and accumulated under treatments of mild stress (MIS) or moderate stress (MOS), while it decreased under severe stress (SES) treatment. Aldose-6-phosphate reductase (A6PR) activity increased rapidly, but the correlation between sorbitol content and A6PR activity was non significant and the positive effect of it on sorbitol accumulation was limited under MOS treatment in apple leaves; significant negative correlations were obtained between sorbitol content and sorbitol dehydrogenase (SDH) activity, and only SDH had a significant direct effect on sorbitol content under MIS and MOS treatments; the regulatory enzymes in the sucrose metabolism affected sorbitol content mainly through the indirect effects of ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (ADPGPPase) and amylase; and the rapid decreased of ADPGPPase activity and increased of amylase activity would be benefited for increase of sorbitol synthesis. No A6PR activity was detected in apple roots where SDH activity was present, the increase of sorbitol contents in roots under MIS and MOS treatments were caused by the more proportion of assimilates distributing and inhibition of sorbitol degradation. Reason of the decreased sorbitol contents under severe stress might be resulted by inhibition of both numerous synthetic and degrading enzymes of carbohydrates.
24126398|Climate effects on plum yield and prediction of yield in commercial plum production were studied. Data were collected from fruit co-operations in three regions in the fjord district of western Norway. Relative yield levels as percentage of a moving average for the years 19622002 were compared to meteorological data. In the northernmost region yield level varied more than in the two other regions. Yield level was positively correlated to several climatic parameters the year previous to the fruiting year; one hour more sun in July gave 0.3 % higher yield the next year in Hardanger. Yield level was negatively correlated to high temperatures in January and February; in the Sogn region 1 C higher February maximum temperature gave 6.9 % lower yield. In the northernmost region warm and dry weather in May was crucial for high yield. For all districts climate factors before June 1 had a large influence on yield level, making it possible to develop models for predicting yield levels. Multiple regression models with meteorological variables as predictors were developed for predicting yield per June 1, and for explaining yield after harvesting. When predicting relative yield level as a percentage of an average, the models can be applicable for the growing and the marketing of fruit.
24126832|Two cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.) cultivars, including the shade-susceptible cv. 'Jingyan 2' and shade-tolerant cv. 'Deltastar', were compared for the changes in gas exchange and chlorophyll a fluorescent parameters during rapid dehydration of mature leaves detached from seedlings grown for 20 days under low light (PFD: 7585 mol m-2 s-1). During the continuous water loss process after separation from plants, leaf net photosynthesis rate (Pn), transpiration rate (Tr), efficiency of excitation energy captured by open photosystem II (PSII) reaction centre (Fv/Fm), quantum efficiency of PSII photochemistry (PSII) and partitioning proportion for photochemical reaction of light energy absorbed by PSII (P) gradually decreased, the antennae heat dissipation (D) and reaction centres dissipation of light energy absorbed by PSII (Ex) gradually increased, and the maximal photochemical efficiency of PSII (Fv/Fm) remained largely stable. The declining of the photosynthetic parameters was faster and lasted shorter period than the fluorescent parameters. The impact of dehydration was much more severe in the control plants grown under normal light intensity, which indicates that plants grown under low light had improved tolerance to subsequent water deficient stress. Between the two cultivars both exposed to low light, cv. 'Deltastar' was able to maintain more stable chl fluorescence, photosynthetic parameters and the critical water content during rapid dehydration process. These characteristics may account for the better tolerance to shade and drought condition of 'Deltastar' compared to 'Jingyan 2'.
24126433|Aim of the study was to describe an in vitro method for evaluation of iron chlorosis responses of grapevine (Vitis sp.) genotypes. Nodal green segments of three rootstocks, 'Fercal', '1103 P', '1613 C' and one table grape cultivar, 'Perlette' were cultured under in vitro conditions. Three iron concentrations (9,18, 36 mg L-1 FeNaEDTA) alone and their combining effects with 840 mg L-1 NaHCO3 were compared in the MS medium supplemented with 4.4 M BA. Grapevine genotypes were examined for leaf chlorosis rating scales, total chlorophyll content; shoot dry weights of the plantlets, and total and active Fe concentrations of leaves. Increased bicarbonate addition had negative effects on the iron uptake and development of plants. Chlorophyll content and dry weights of shoots did not distinguish the genotypes for their responses to iron deficiency. The total and active iron content of the tested genotypes ranked according to their previously common known degree of tolerance to lime-induced chlorosis. 'Fercal', 'Perlette' and '1103 P' showed tolerance, respectively and '1613 C' was susceptible. The most suitable parameters for determining the genotype responses to iron chlorosis were the chlorosis rating scales from 1 to 5 and total and active Fe concentrations of the leaves. Among the different growing media used the 9 mg L-1 FeNaEDTA with 840 mg L-1 NaHCO3 seems to be better for determination of genotypic differences. The results showed that the in vitro method described in this study could practically be used in viticulture to screen the genotypes for their Fe deficiency responses to calcareous soils in shorter times.
24126712|A milky discolouration of red-pigmented apple varieties such as 'Redprince' and 'Elstar' from Northern Germany was due to the abnormal development of air spaces in hypodermal tissues. This physiological condition was identified as scarf skin, which is well-known in the United States but is reported here for the first time from Europe. White haze, caused by a superficial colonisation of the apple cuticle by mycelial yeasts, was also observed in Northern Germany, and two Tilletiopsis spp. were isolated and characterised. The occurrence of scarf skin and white haze in Northern Germany is discussed with reference to other fruit producing regions.
24126721|Irregular yields of Prunus cerasus 'Stevnsbaer Birgitte', which is the preferred sour cherry cultivar in Denmark, have been proposed to be a result of freeze injury to floral tissues. This study determined floral mortality of P. cerasus 'Stevnsbaer Birgitte' and the supposedly more cold hardy P. cerasus 'Kelleriis 16' under natural conditions, and investigated seasonal changes in flower bud cold hardiness of 'Stevnsbaer Birgitte'. In a cold winter with unusual low temperatures in December, the injury rate of buds of 'Stevnsbaer Birgitte' was significantly higher than that of 'Kelleriis 16', confirming that buds of the latter cultivar are considerably more cold hardy than buds of 'Stevnsbaer Birgitte'. The majority of frost injuries in buds of 'Stevnsbaer Birgitte' occurred mid-winter, but dehardening appeared fast, indicating that the critical injury times of buds of 'Stevnsbaer Birgitte' include both the mid-winter and dehardening phases.
24126857|As the home of numerous grape genotypes, Turkey is one of the major centers of viniculture genetic material in the world. 'Merzifon Karasi' (Vitis vinifera L.) is one of the most valuable red wine grape cultivars in Turkey. However, despite the variety's relative age, 'Merzifon Karasi' has yet to be tested on different rootstocks. Therefore, this study was conducted to determine the effects of different rootstocks on the growth characteristics of 'Merzifon Karasi' scion. Growth parameters (shoot length (cm), shoot diameter (mm), internode length (cm), total and unit leaf area (cm2), root length (cm), root scale (04) and root number) were calculated and carbohydrate content (%) of the grafted grapevine shoots, trunk and roots analysed for 9 different rootstocks. Significant differences (P < 0.01) were found among rootstocks. 8B and Rupestris du Lot rated best in terms of root length, root scale and root number (P < 0.01). Highest shoot length, shoot diameter (P < 0.01) and internode length were obtained, respectively, with the 110R, 8B and Rupestris du Lot rootstocks (P < 0.05). Rupestris du Lot also produced the grapevines with the highest total leaf area per plant and main shoot, whereas the grapevines grafted on 8B had the highest unit leaf area (P < 0.01). Sugar, starch and carbohydrate contents (%) of the different plant parts also varied significantly by rootstock (P < 0.01), with the highest root carbohydrate content measured in the 5C (22.4 %) rootstock, and the highest trunk and shoot carbohydrate content measured in the 110R (12.1 and 13.4 %, respectively). In sum, the study found the best rootstocks for 'Merzifon Karasi' to be 8B, Rupestris du Lot and 110R in terms of root and shoot growth, whereas 'Merzifon Karasi' grape grafted onto 110R and 5C rootstock had the highest carbohydrate contents.
24126784|"Crop science" along with an accepted definition of "science" may be generally defined as "the traditional existence of knowledge and the process of methodically performed, principally reproducible knowledge, elaborated by knowledge production." With regard to its content crop science is considered composed of the sub-disciplines eco-engineering, natural sciences and system science. For many decisions economic aspects also have to be taken into account. Knowledge production and its development in eco-engineering and system science is described primarily by research methodology, in natural sciences by the history of fundamental crop science related insights. Accumulated knowledge as a whole is estimated by analysing manuals on vegetable production in German language in the period of 1530 to 2003. After a long precursor period crop science started in Germany about 1800, initiating a rapid development of experimental methodology and technical literature. From the middle of the 20th century onward a strengthened consideration of eco-physiological knowledge is observed, and from the end of the 20th century systems scientific knowledge. Thus both, quantity and quality of knowledge were expanded and improved, as well as its structure and presentation. The problems, limitations and consequences of this process are discussed. Entsprechend einer anerkannten Definition der Wissenschaft wird auch die Pflanzenbauwissenschaft als berlieferter Bestand des Wissens, und der Prozess methodisch betriebener, prinzipiell nachvollziehbarer Erkenntnisarbeit definiert. Pflanzenbauwissenschaft beruht auf einem Kompositum aus ko-Ingenieurwissenschaft, Natur-wissenschaft und Systemwissenschaft. Sie hat bei vielen Entscheidungen auch konomische Aspekte zu bercksichtigen. Die Entwicklung der Erkenntnisarbeit wird fr die ko-Ingenieur- und Systemwissenschaft primr ber die Forschungsmethodik, fr die Naturwissenschaften ber die Geschichte fundamentaler, pflanzenbaulich relevanter Erkenntnisse beschrieben. Das akkumulierte Wissen wird durch die Analyse von Gemsebaubchern in deutscher Sprache in der Spanne von 15302003 beurteilt. Nach einer langen Periode der Wegbereitung wird der Beginn der Pflanzenbauwissenschaft auf etwa 1800 datiert. Sie lste eine rasante Entwicklung der experimentellen Methodologie aus, die ab Mitte des 20. Jahrhunderts von ko-physiologischem Wissen und seit dem Ende des 20. Jahrhunderts durch systemwissenschaftliches Wissen ergnzt wurde. Parallel verbesserten sich Quantitt und Qualitt des Wissens, seine Strukturierung und Prsentation. Die Probleme und Grenzen dieses Prozesses sowie die Schlussfolgerungen werden diskutiert.
24126388|Mn deficiency is a common nutritional disorder affecting the growth, yield and fruit quality of citrus plants. Twenty-three-year-old 'Washington Navel' orange (Citrus sinensis L.) trees budded onto sour orange (C. aurantium L.) rootstock and grown in two sites (I and II) of an orchard were used. Based on the leaf Mn concentrations, 20 Mn deficient and 10 non Mn deficient trees were selected on 26 January 2000. The trees were separated in 6 groups; each one consisted of 5 trees with similar Mn status. The mean Mn concentrations in the leaves of the groups 1,2,3,4,5, and 6 were 8.8, 10.5, 11.2, 13.8, 18.3, and 19.8 mg kg-1 dry weight (d.w.), respectively. The trees of the groups 14 were grown in the site I, while those of the groups 5 and 6 in the site II of the orchard. One tree group in each orchard site (site I: group 3; site II: group 6) was not sprayed with Mn and used as a control, while the trees of the other groups (1, 2, 4 and 5) were sprayed on 06 February 2000 with MnSO4H2O (800 mg l-1 Mn). From 18 February 2000 until 19 January 2001, 11 leaf samplings were conducted to monitor the Mn status of the trees. The concentrations of Mn in the leaves of the groups 3 and 6 (controls) were almost constant and presented no significant differences among the samplings. With regard to the Mn treated trees, at the first post-treatment sampling (18 February 2000), the leaf Mn levels were higher by 16.525.1 mg kg-1 d.w., respectively, in relation to their pre-treatment status. At the last sampling (19 January 2001), the Mn status of the trees was also improved by 4.57.5 mg kg-1 (d.w.), compared to their pre-treatment status. Overall, when the concentration of Mn in the leaves is equal or higher than 14 mg kg-1 d.w., before the spray Mn treatment, only one application of MnSO4H2O (800 mg l-1 Mn) on February is sufficient to cover the Mn needs of the trees for a whole year. In other cases (leaf Mn levels equal or lower than 13 mg kg-1 d.w.), the trees should be re-sprayed on July or August.
24126238|A closed hydroponic system (Porous Tube Plant Nutrient Delivery System) combined with a horizontal uniaxial clinostat has been designed and built-up to grown leafy vegetables under simulated microgravity conditions. Two research activities were carried out to investigate the effects of clinorotation on growth, yield, and quality of rocket seedlings (Eruca sativa Mill.) and lettuce plants (Eactuca sativa L.), which may constitute a source of healthy fresh food for the astronauts during space missions. The percentage of germination of rocket was affected by clinorotation with the highest value observed in the control treatment. The seedling fresh weight of the control treatment, was 19 % higher compared to that of the clinorotation treatment while the opposite trend was observed for chlorophyll a/b ratio. Clinorotation did not influence the quality (total carbohydrates, triglycerides, carotenoids and vitamin C) of the rocket seedlings. Shoot fresh and dry weight, leaf area, specific leaf dry weight, root dry weight and shoot:root ratio were lower in the clinorotated lettuce plants than those grown in the control treatment. Quality parameters (chlorophyll, total carbohydrates and vitamin C) of lettuce plants were negatively affected by clinorotation. Lettuce genotype comparison under simulated microgravity showed that 'Mortadella di primavera' should be adopted for space experiments due to the better growth and productivity. Es wurde ein geschlossenes hydroponisches System (Pflanzennahrung ber einen porsen Schlauch) kombiniert mit einem einachsigen Klinostaten entwickelt und gebaut, um Blattgemse unter simulierter Mikro-Schwerkraft zu kultivieren. In zwei Versuchen wurden die Wirkungen der Klinostaten-Rotation auf das Wachstum, den Ertrag und die Qualitt von Rukola-Smngen (Eruca sativa Mill.) und Kopfsalatpflanzen (Eactuca sativa L.), die fr Astronauten auf Weltraummissionen eine potentielle Quelle fr Frischnahrung darstellen, untersucht. Die Keimrate von Rukola wurde durch die Klinostaten-Rotation beeinflusst und der hchste Wert bei der Kontrolle erzielt. Das Smlingsfrischgewicht der Kontrolle war 19 % hher als beim Klinostaten, wohingegen beim Chlorophyll a/b-Verhltnis der gegenstzliche Trend beobachtet wurde. Die Klinostaten-Rotation hatte keinen Einfluss auf die Qualitt (Gesamtkohlenhydrate, Trigyceride, Karotinoide und Vitamin C) der Rukola-Smlinge. Das Frisch- und Trockengewicht der Sprosse, die Blattflche, das spezifische Trocken- und Wurzeltrockengewicht sowie das Spross:Wurzel-Verhltnis war bei den Salatpflanzen auf dem Klinostaten niedriger als bei den Kontrollpflanzen. Die Qualittsparameter (Chlorophyll, Gesamtkohlenhydrate und Vitamin C) der Salatpflanzen wurden durch die Klinostaten-Rotation negativ beeinflusst. Ein Vergleich unterschiedlicher Salatsorten in simulierter geringer Schwerkraft zeigte, dass 'Mortadella di primavera' auf Grund von besserem Wachstum und Qualitt fr die Weltraumexperimente ausgewhlt werden sollte
24126618|The appropriate timing and intensity of electro-degradation (ED) of nutrient solution to recover strawberry autotoxicity in closed hydroponic system was investigated during spring 2010 in glasshouse of Experimental Research Center for Biological Resources Science, Shimane University. In growth chamber bioassay, growth of strawberry plantlets were inhibited gready in non-renewed nutrient solution due to the accumulation of autotoxic root exudates compared to nutrient solution renewed weekly (control). Plants grown in non-renewed nutrient solution electro-degraded weekly intervals also showed growth inhibition whereas biweekly ED improved its growth. This growth inhibition in weekly ED nutrient solution was found to be attributed by the degradation Fe-EDTA (about 10 %) and low concentration of Ca2+ in culture solution. Electrolysis durations were evaluated in without plant experiments. It was found that low pH (3.13) and increased temperature were two major constraints for longer ED duration (24 h). Therefore, considering electric voltage, electrical conductivity (EC) and pH, shorter ED duration (2 h) was selected for further experiments. 2 h ED treatment of nutrient solution certainly can save energy and be feasible for greenhouse applications. In greenhouse, strawberry plants were grown in Wagner's pot hydroponic system where nutrient solutions were either renewed four weekly or not-renewed entirely. The non-renewed nutrient solutions were electro-degraded either biweekly or four weekly. Growth and yield of strawberry plants was decreased in non-renewed nutrient solution and its biweekly ED treatment but it was improved in non-renewed nutrient solution when ED applied at four weeks intervals. It was found that fruit yield of strawberry plant was completely recovered ( 99 %) in non-renewed nutrient solution with ED at every four weeks, whereas, in our previous study the recovery was 71 % compared to renewed nutrient solution. Therefore, we recommend application of ED to non-renewed nutrient solution for 2 h at every four weeks intervals to avoid autotoxicity in strawberry in a closed hydroponic system.
24126474|Plant water relations, gas exchange parameters and stomata morphology of potted white asparagus (Asparagus officinalis L.) plants were investigated to evaluate the degree of their drought resistance. Two cultivars, 'Gijnlim' and 'Grolim', with high commercial relevance in Germany and with contrasting yield and drought susceptibility were examined. Exclusively the pore length of the kidney-shaped stomata differed but stomata density was similar between the two lines. Stomatal pore length measured on 'Grolim' plants was nearly twice that of 'Gijnlim'. Drought stress was gradually induced by withholding irrigation from one-year old fully developed asparagus plants grown under well-watered conditions in 15 L pots in a greenhouse. During desiccation, predawn water potential of plant (PD) and soil (soil), and midday gas exchange of cladophylls were determined. Under well-watered conditions (soil> -8 kPa), plant of 'Grolim' showed higher net assimilation rates (A) and leaf conductance (gH2O) than 'Gijnlim' plants. Intrinsic water use efficiency (WUEint) of unstressed plants did not differ between the cultivars. Only 'Grolim' plants reduced gH20 in response to increased vapour pressure deficit between leaf and air (VPDal), under well-watered conditions. Water shortage rather than VPDal triggered stomatal control. Under severe soil drought conditions (soil< -50 kPa), WUEint of 'Grolim' was higher than that of 'Gijnlim' and gH2O was lower. Under air and soil drought stress, the more sensitive stomatal regulation of 'Grolim' indicates a more efficient protective mechanism against detrimental water loss. These results suggest that 'Gijnlim' employs a strategy of drought tolerance whereas 'Grolim' employs one of drought avoidance. For productivity purposes, water management of 'Grolim' is advantageous due to lower susceptibility to drought stress and higher net photosynthesis under optimal conditions.
24126112|The potential for break-down of organic substrates by the microflora inhabiting the nutrient solution effluent from closed systems was studied in a fruit-bearing tomato crop grown in small scale systems adopting nutrient film technique with respect to selected phenolic acids (benzoic acid, ferulic acid, p-hydroxybenzoic acid, salicylic acid, vanillic acid) and eleven substrate groups expected in rhizodeposition (carbohydrates, amino acids, carboxylic acids, polymers, amines, amides, alcohols, aromatic compounds, brominated compounds, esters, phosphorylated compounds). Factors essential for mediating the break-down (microflora, oxygen content and demand, total organic carbon, pH, electrical conductivity) were described for the studied growing system. Phenolic acids added to the nutrient solution or tap water samples and followed during 54 h, disappeared after a short lag phase when incubated in the colonized effluent, whereas when incubated in non-sterile tap water, the tested phenolic acids were significantly more persistent. Of the substrate groups assessed using Biolog GN-panel, carbohydrates, amino acids, carboxylic acids, polymers and amines were the most consistently utilized substrates during an observation period of 96 h. However, not all of the compounds on the GN-panel included in these classes were metabolized. Remaining six substrate groups were utilized inconsistently and beyond the threshold of 0.5 absorbance units. Viable count of all scrutinized microbial groups (general bacterial and fungal flora, fluorescent pseudomonads, actinomycetes, Trichoderma) was higher during the second out of two years of observation. Passage through the growing system indicated an increase in pH and electrical conductivity as compared to set values. Oxygen saturation and  content decreased from the first to the last sampling whereas the total organic carbon content (TOC), the biochemical oxygen demand (BOD5) and the chemical oxygen demand (COD) remained unaffected. Das Umsatzpotential von organischen Substanzen im Drain von geschlossenen Systemen wurde in einer frchtetragenden Tomatenkultur (NFT) in Hinblick auf Phenolsuren (Benzo-, Ferula-, p-hydroxybenzo-, Salicyl-, Vanillinsure) und elf Gruppen von organischen Substraten (Kohlenhydrate, Amino-, Karboxylsuren, Polymere, Amine, Amide, Alkohole, aromatische Verbindungen, bromierte Verbindungen, Ester, phosphorylierte Verbindungen), die in Wurzelexsudaten erwartet werden, untersucht. Fr den Umsatz organischer Substanz determinierende Faktoren (Mikroflora, O2-Gehalt und Verbrauch, totaler organischer Kohlenstoffgehalt, pH und elektrische Leitfhigkeit) werden fr das untersuchte Kultursystem beschrieben. In belebten Drain wurden die ausgewhlten Phenolsuren in vitro nach kurzer lag-Phase whrend des Beobachtungszeitraumes von 54 h umgesetzt. In nicht sterilem Leitungswasser hingegen verhielten sich die Phenolsuren bedeutend persistenter und Vanillinsure wurde nicht umgesetzt. Substratverwertung wurde mit Hilfe von Microlog GN-Panels untersucht. Von den elf Substratgruppen wurden Kohlenhydrate, Amino- und Karboxylsuren, Polymere und Amine whrend des 96-stndigen Untersuchungszeitraumes am konsequentesten verwertet. Allerdings wurden nicht smtliche einzelne Kohlenstoffquellen in den verschiedenen Klassen metabolisiert. Die Verwertung der brigen sechs Klassen lag unter dem Schwellenwert von 0.5 Absorptionseinheiten. Die Gesamtkeimzahl fr die Bakterien- und Pilzflora sowie fr einzelne Gruppen (fluoreszierende Pseudomonaden, Aktinomyzeten und Trichoderma) war im zweiten Versuchsjahr hher als im ersten. Nach Passage der Nhrlsung durch das Kultursystem stiegen sowohl pH als auch Leitfhigkeit im Vergleich zu den Richtwerten. Sauerstoffgehalt und sttigungsgrad nahmen von der ersten zur dritten Probenentnahme ab, der biochemische und chemische Sauerstoffverbrauch sowie der organische Gesamtkohlenstoffgehalt blieben unbeeinflusst.
24126713|Dormancy-breaking chemical agents are usually used to compensate insufficient chill accumulation that may cause severe production problems in fruit crops. In this study we evaluated if the application of Dormex and winter oil is efficient and suitable to enhance dormancy release in a southern Spain location. The treatment was tested at different phenological stages in the low chill peach 'Early Maycrest' (Prunus persica L. Batsch). Blooming and harvest times as well as blooming and fruit set percentages were evaluated during two consecutive years. The source of temperatures used to calculate chill accumulation (expressed as hours below 7 C, Utah Model and Dynamic Model), obtained either from shade or sun, was also discussed. Trees were treated at two different phenological stages: ca. 50 % and ca. 75 % of the chilling requirements (CR) of the cultivar. The chill accumulated under field conditions was markedly different between years. The treatments only brought forward harvest time by 2 and 3 days in 2007 and 2008, respectively. However, no significant differences were found between different moments of application with regard to blooming and harvest dates and blooming and ffuit set percentages. Also, no significant differences in blooming and ffuit set percentages were found between the treated and control trees. The application of this treatment in extra-low-chill peach cultivars in our climatic conditions is not recommendable unless done after exceptionally warm winter conditions not fulfilling cultivar CR.
24126365|This study was conducted to investigate best cane quality level in 140 Ru and 5 BB grape rootstocks through morphological changes when the canes were sectioned into 4-bud segments from base to tip. Canes were later forced to grow in plastic pots to determine the relationship between cane quality and root-shoot growth characteristics. The results suggested that rootstocks differ along their canes length for best quality to use in propagation. Cuttings should be prepared in 5 BB between 5 to 16th internodes, and in 140 Ru between 512th nodes, because of better quality and well balanced root-shoot growth.
24126429|The issues of cutting length have not been discussed seriously in cutting propagation history. As the results from practice show, cutting lengths between 5 and 15 cm have proven optimal - woody species, as well. On the basis of the newly developed fog systems (high pressure fog systems), the use of very long cuttings (more than 50 cm) became possible for the first time. The results using these longer cuttings from various woody species were surprisingly good. However, the experiments with long cuttings have never been applied to chestnut (Castanea sp.). With a rate of over 20 %, the rooting percentage of long cuttings was much better in comparison to short ones. The leaves of long cuttings accumulated significantly more rutin (>0.35 mg g-1 FW), quercetin-3-O-rhamnoside (quercitrin; >0.38 mg g-1 FW), quercetin-3-D-galactoside (hyperoside; up to 2.80 mg g-1 FW), and quercetin-3-D-glucoside (0.28 mg g-1 FW), but also more ellagic acid (up to 0.13 mg g-1 FW). The differences between long and short cuttings were the greatest at the time of severance; later the differences decreased.
24126458|The objective of the present work was to determine the relationship between fruit size, fruit weight, fruit quality and climate factors and the interaction of these factors at harvest in order to predict the optimal harvest date to obtain high quality apples after storage. The first evaluation of 'Elstar' apples, included weekly determination of apple diameter and the second evaluation included at harvest measurement of fruit weight and fruit quality (Streif index). All apples were cold-stored in normal atmosphere at 3 C or in low oxygen atmosphere at 1 C immediately after picking. Analytical data were combined with daily registered meteorological data including: the sums of degree days, rainfall in the morning including minimum precipitation and/or dew, maximum precipitation (rainfall), evaporation potential, wind velocity, average daily relative humidity, vapour pressure deficit, global radiation, soil temperature and surface wetness. Factor analyses identified three non-correlated factors; 1) energy and water, 2) heat and wind and 3) vapour deficit. The factor loadings were used to determine the importance of each climate variable and its interactions on characteristics of the apple fruit. Multiple regression analyses, with forward selection of climate variables or their interactions showed that apple fruit diameter was significantly affected by two climate factors: 1) degree days and 2) evaporation potential. Only degree day had a significant effect on apple fruit weight. Fruit quality (Streif index) was affected by two climate factors: 1) degree days and 2) relative humidity. Apple fruit diameter, fruit weight and fruit quality were modelled using climate. The differences between measured and predicted diameter, weight and fruit quality were 0.2 mm, 1 g and 0.09 kg cm-2 ww%-1 scores-1, respectively. In view of climate change with expected warmer temperatures, the value establishing and using statistical models for prediction of quality characteristics will increase considerably.
24126390|Maintaining the quality and freshness of fruit and vegetables during transportation and storage is an important role for most postharvest industries. One way to control freshness is by carefully monitoring and regulating exposure to ethylene. By limiting exposure to ethylene the natural aging process of fresh produce is slowed down, thus prolonging its shelf life. This is especially important for organic produce where the use of chemicals for decay control is not practiced. In this paper, the performance characteristics and method of use of a new sensing approach for postharvest ethylene measurements is introduced. In this sensor, ETH-1010, oxidation of ethylene on a gold electrocatalyst produces a highly detectable and measurable amperometric signal. ETH-1010 has been packaged into a complete field portable unit. It continuously samples the air at a set flow rate, (commonly between 200 and 500 ml min-1), and reports the ethylene concentration in air at a user-specified time interval. The direct contact between the ethylene molecules in air and electrocatalytic surface renders this process more sensitive and responsive than conventional diffusion-type electrochemical cells. This approach has been shown to be quite effective for continuous monitoring of cold storage rooms, where detection of lower than 10 ppm down to 10 ppb is desirable. This configuration was also used to examine the applicability of electrocatalysis for scrubbing ethylene. Results for ethylene removal have been presented in this paper where the surface reactivity on the electrocatalyst is typically between 0.1 and 0.2 mol h-1 cm-2. In the sensor, the high reaction rate provides high sensitivity and response time, while making it feasible to consider using electrocatalysis in a scrubbing mode for future applications.
24126133|Reporter proteins play a significant role in developing and optimizing transformation protocols for plant species and they show a unique activity to visualize gene expression and protein localization. Chemical based selection for plant transformation is associated with a number of problems that might be avoided through visual selection. In recent years, the reporter protein GFP (Green Fluorescent Protein) has become very effective and highly valuable for use in biotechnology, cell biology, and biochemistry. It is a unique tool for monitoring gene expression, protein localization, detection of the gene flows and protein dynamics in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic living cells because it requires neither exogenous substrates nor cofactors for its activity. We discussed the use of jellyfish green fluorescent protein (GFP) as a reporter in horticultural plants. Reporterproteine spielen eine wichtige Rolle in der Entwicklung und Optimierung der Transformationsprotokolle fr Pflanzenspezies und sie besitzen eine einzigartige Aktivitt um Genexpression und Proteinlokalisation zu zeigen. Auf Chemikalien basierende Selektion bei Pflanzentransformation ist mit Problemen verbunden, die mit visueller Selektion vermieden werden knnen. In den letzten Jahren wurde das neue Reporterprotein GFP (Grn fluoreszierendes Protein) sehr wertvoll fr den Gebrauch in der Biotechnologie, Zellbiologie und Biochemie. Es ist ein einzigartiges Werkzeug, um die Genexpression und Protein-Lokalisation sowie den Nachweis von Genfluss und Protein-Dynamik in lebenden Zellen von Prokaryonten und Eukaryonten zu berwachen, denn es braucht weder exogen Substrate noch Faktoren fr seine Aktivitt. Wir haben den Einsatz von grn fluoreszierendem Protein (GFP) aus Quallen als Reporter im Gartenbau diskutiert.
24126877|The effects of post-flowering environmental conditions on chemical composition of 'Glen Ample' red raspberry were studied by growing plants at three altitudes (128, 340 and 670 m a. s. l.) at the same latitude in central South Norway. Due to day-to-day variation in temperature and precipitation, the average climatic effects over the entire harvest period were evened out and reduced in magnitude, thus complicating the analysis of their effects. However, correlation of fruit chemical composition for the individual weekly harvests with temperature and precipitation data for the current and preceding weeks, revealed significant effects of weather conditions during fruit maturation. At the lower temperature range established in the present experiment, fruit quality attributes such as dry matter, soluble solids, titratable acids, total monomeric anthocyanins, and total phenolic concentration were all positively correlated with increasing temperature during the final two weeks of fruit maturation, while precipitation during the same period had the opposite effect. It is concluded, however, that the negative effect of precipitation was not likely to be a direct plant-water relation effect, but rather an indirect effect related to increased cloudiness and reduced radiation during rainy weather. Specific effects on, and interrelations between individual compounds were observed and discussed.
24126194|Fruits of three tomato varieties grown in greenhouse in peat irrigated with a complete nutrient solution with electrical conductivity of 2 and 5 mS cm-1, respectively, were assayed for antioxidant activity, and analysed for concentration of soluble solids, total acidity, dry matter and vitamin C, when green, vine-ripened or post-harvest ripened. The experiment showed significant main effects of year, cultivar, degree of maturity and electrical conductivity on antioxidant activity and chemical composition. Small but significant differences were observed between years, and the same pattern of variation of FRAP (Ferric Reducing Ability of Plasma), dry matter, soluble solids, titratable acidity, and vitamin C was observed within years. The degree of maturity (green versus red) explained 49 % of the variation in the data set. Post-harvest- and vine-ripened tomatoes had higher values of titratable acidity, dry matter, soluble solids, FRAP and ascorbic acid. The difference between cultivars accounted for 31 % of the variation. 'Favorita' showed the highest values for antioxidant activity, dry matter, soluble solids, titratable acidity and ascorbic acid, thus dominating the variation. FRAP values and ascorbic acid was connected to cultivar, while dry matter, titratable acidity and soluble solid were connected to the fertilizer level. The antioxidant activity was not affected by the concentration of the nutrient solution. Frchte dreier Tomatensorten, die im Gewchshaus in Torfkultur mit einer vollstndigen Nhrlsung und einer elektrischen Leitfhigkeit von 2 bzw. 5 mS cm-1 produziert worden waren, wurden auf ihren Gehalt an lslicher Trockensubstanz, titrierbarer Sure, Gesamttrockensubstanz und Vitamin C untersucht. Dabei wurden (i) grne, (ii) an der Pflanze rot abgereifte und (iii) unter kontrollierten Bedingungen rot nachgereifte Tomaten in die Versuche einbezogen. Das Experiment zeigte signifikante Einflsse der Versuchs jhre, der Sorten, des Reifegrads und der elektrischen Leitfhigkeit auf die antioxidative Kapazitt und die chemische Zusammensetzung. Es wurden geringe, aber signifikante Unterschiede zwischen den Versuchsjahren bezglich des Musters der FRAP-Variation ("Ferric Reducing Ability of Plasma"), der Gesamttrockensubstanz, der lslichen Trockensubstanz, der titrierbaren Sure und des Vitamin C-Gehaltes beobachtet. Der Reifegrad (grn versus rot) erklrte 49 % der Variation der Versuchsdaten. Nachgereifte und an der Pflanze ausgereifte rote Tomaten hatten hhere Gehalte an titrierbarer Sure, Gesamttrockensubstanz, lsliche Trockensubstanz, FRAP und Vitamin C. Die Unterschiede zwischen den Sorten waren die Ursache fr 31 % der Variationen. Fr Tomaten der Sorte 'Favorita' wurden die hchsten Werte bezglich antioxidativer Kapazitt, Gesamttrockensubstanz, lslicher Trockensubstanz, titrierbarer Sure und Vitamin C gemessen und dominierten damit die Variation. FRAP-Werte und Ascorbinsure waren an die Sorte gekoppelt, whrend Gesamttrockensubstanz, titrierbare Sure und lsliche Trockensubstanz der Dngungsstufe folgten. Die antioxidative Kapazitt war unbeeinflusst von der Konzentration der Nhrlsung.
24126620|The abortion of buds and flower buds induced by low night temperature stress is an important constraint to the production of pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) grown in unheated greenhouses during winter. The abortion of floral structures was investigated in two local hot pepper varieties ('Beldi' and 'Baklouti') grown in a growth chamber at a day/night temperature regime of either low night temperature (25/10 C, LNT) or optimum night temperature (25/20 C, ONT as a control). The negative effect of LNT on the differentiation of floral structures, expressed by the percentage abortion, was recorded for both varieties. LNT affected pepper floral structures early: buds and flower bud stages were more sensitive than flowers at the anthesis stage. The percentage abortion of these structures was less pronounced in 'Beldi' (41.5 %) than in 'Baklouti' (49.6 %) after 5 d of the treatment.
24126460|Twelve hazelnut cultivars taken from Bolu-Akakoca, West Black Sea Region of Turkey, were evaluated in terms of bioactive properties such as fat and fatty acid composition, protein and amino acid, water-soluble and water-insoluble vitamins, ash and mineral content at 2 consecutive years. Considerable differences were observed among cultivars for all properties (P  0.05) with the exception of palmitoleic acid, leucine and threonine content (P  0.05). In all cultivars, fat was the predominant component (56.4564.11 %) followed by oleic acid (80.5985.64 %), glutamic acid (2.3423.543 g 100 g-1), arginin (1.3102.366 g 100 g-1), -tocopherol (19.24378.80 mg 100 g-1), ascorbic acid (1.4303.207 mg 100 g-1), potassium contents (560.20893.90 mg 100 g-1).
24126497|The postharvest economic quality of mature apple (Malus  domestica Borkh.) is determined by the fruit shelf-life, which is associated with the fruit softening rate at room temperature. Ethylene is the factor that has been most studied in relation to the regulation of fruit softening. Softening rate and ethylene production differ widely among apple cultivars. 1-aminocyclopropane-l-carboxylic acid synthase (ACS) is one of the key regulatory enzymes involved in the synthesis of ethylene. In apple, at least four members of the ACS gene family have been identified, two of which, MdACS1 and MdACS3, have been studied extensively due to their specific expression in fruit tissue. Recent characterization of these genes has provided insight into the molecular basis of ACS gene involvement in fruit ripening, and a role of ACS genes in the regulation of system-1 and system-2 ethylene biosynthesis has been proposed. This paper reviews advances in our understanding of the relationship between ACS gene expression and the fruit shelf-life of apple, and also discusses other factors that influence fruit ripening. In addition, we prospectively overview promising research avenues that could lead to further clarification of the regulatory events involved in ripening.
24126343|Plants of Urtica dioica were cultivated in three years with four different nitrogen (N) levels (0, 100, 200 and 400 kg N ha-1) and the aerial parts were harvested three times per year to investigate if the content of flavonoids and phenolic acids were affected. The flavonol glycosides quercetin-3-O-glucoside, quercetin-3-O-rutinoside, isorhamnetin-3-O-rutinoside, and kaempferol-3-O-rutinoside and the phenolic acids 5-O-caffeoylquinic acid, 3-O-caffeoylquinic acid, 5-O-feruloylquinic acid and 2-O-caffeoylmalic acid were identified and quantified in extracts of the aerial parts of U. dioica by LC-DAD-MS and RP-HPLC-DAD, respectively. High N-levels reduced the concentration of total flavonoids significantly from an average of 10 mg g-1 dry matter (DM) at 0 kg N ha-1 to 5 mg g-1 at 400 kg N. The effect of N levels on total phenolic acids was only significant in the second harvest each year with a reduction from an average of 30 mg g-1 DM at 0 kg N ha-1 to 23 mg g-1 at 400 kg N ha-1. The composition of flavonoids changed significantly among the major flavonoids with later harvest time resulting in an increase in the content of quercetin-3-O-rutinoside and a decrease of the quercetin-3-O-glucoside content. From the present study it appears that cultivation of U. dioica herba for medicinal purposes with a high yield of bioactive compounds is a compromise between a high yield of plant material and the content of flavonol glycosides and phenolic acids in the harvested product.
24126397|To determine the optimal growing system for organic apple production three different cover crop management practises were established for two scab resistant apple cultivars; cultivar A 'Prima' and cultivar B 'Vanda'. The management practices included: Treatment 1: A permanent grass mixture in the alley way, Treatment 2: A permanent clover grass mixture in the alley way and Treatment 3: An annual mixture of grass and clover was sown every year in early July and mulched down the following year in April. Mechanical weed control in the tree rows was carried out yearly from April to July. No additional fertilizer, irrigation or pest and disease control were carried out. A mulching sub trial was conducted in the cover crops: after mowing the cover crops in Treatment 1 and 2: clippings were mulched into the tree row (Treatment A) or clippings were left in the alley way (Treatment B). The permanent grass alley way system (Treatment 1) resulted in the lowest shoot growth, the lowest level of nitrogen in leaf dry matter and fruit with the highest percentage of skin colour. The permanent clover grass mixture (Treatment 2) increased the nitrogen level in the leaves and decreased the percentage of skin colour, moreover the apple scab and fly speck infection on the fruit skin increased compared to fruits produced in Treatment 1. The annual cover crop growing system (Treatment 1) produced vigorous tree growth, a high level of nitrogen in the leaves, high soil water content in the alley way, the highest yield of large fruits and a low percentage of skin colour. The mulching trial showed that leaving clippings of grass in the alley way (Treatment B) resulted in a lower yield of coloured fruit compared with fruit harvested following mulching of the clippings into the tree row (Treatment B). This effect was not only obtained for grass (Treatment 1) but also for clover grass clippings (Treatment 2). The soil water content in the tree row was highest following mulching clover grass. For the permanent grass system the highest content of soil water in the tree row was obtained for bare soil.
24126907|Recent research has supported the view that the distributions of many pests and diseases have extended towards higher latitudes over the last 50 years. Probably driven by a combination of climate change and trade, this extension to the ranges of hundreds of plant pathogens may have serious implications not only for agriculture, horticulture and forestry, but also for turf production & maintenance. Here we review our data relating to the current status of three emerging pest and disease problems across North West Europe (rapid blight, Labyrinthula sp., the root knot nematode, Meloidogyne minor and the pacific stem gall nematode, Anguina pacificae) and discuss the factors which may be involved in their spread and increasing impact on the turf industry. With turf production and maintenance becoming an increasingly international business, we ask if biosecurity and the promotion of plant health in turf production fields and associated sport facilities should be a greater priority for the industry. We also examine if a lack of effective biosecurity measures in the materials supply chain has led to increased plant health problems.
24126326|Due to the economic importance of sweet cherry production and virus tolerance, a range of rootstock clones (hybrids of Prunus spp.) has for some time been under study for response to infection by the pollen-borne Prune dwarf virus (PDV) and Prunus necrotic ringspot virus (PNRSV). The plants were artificially inoculated by bark grafting using well-prepared inocula. Throughout the phases of preparation and investigation all the plants were grown in containers filled with sterilized soil-substrate and were kept under conditions excluding accidental infection. Virus replication in the leaf tissue was checked for by DAS-ELISA. Data of growth parameters (leaf and shoot development) and virus symptom expression (description and evaluation of number of leaves showing symptoms compared to overall number of leaves) was recorded weekly. Two types of virus response were observed and will be discussed for their epidemiological importance: a) tolerance as a tool to guarantee economically efficient cultivation e.g. of cherries under conditions where accidental infection has to be taken into account; b) hypersensitivity as a prerequisite to stop infection and save valuable plants (e.g. seed and scion source trees) under conditions where accidental infection is relatively unlikely but could have costly consequence in case of occurrence. Auf Grund der wirtschaftlichen Bedeutung des Skirschenanbaus und der Toleranz gegenber Kirschenringfleckenviren wurde eine Reihe ausgewhlter Genotypen von Unterlagen (Hybriden aus Kreuzungen zwischen Prunus-Arten) Untersuchungen auf ihre Reaktion gegenber einer Infektion mit den pollenbertragbaren Kirschenringfleckenviren (Prune dwarf virus, PDV und Prunus necrotic ringspot virus, PNRSV) unterzogen. Dazu wurden die Versuchspflanzen durch Rindenschildchenpfropfung mit einheitlichen Inokula (je 5 nur PDV, nur PNRSV bzw. beides) infiziert. Whrend der gesamten Vorbereitungs- und Beobachtungszeit wurden die Pflanzen in mit sterilisiertem Erdsubstrat gefllten Containern unter infektionsfreien Bedingungen gehalten. Die Virusreplikation im Blatt wurde durch wiederholten DAS-ELISA berprft. Daten zu Wachstumsparametern (Blatt- und Triebentwicklung) und zur Ausprgung von Virussymptomen (Symptombeschreibung, Verhltnis symptomtragender Bltter zu Gesamtzahl an Blttern) wurden wchentlich erhoben. Bezglich der Virusempfindlichkeit wurden zwei Reaktionsmuster beobachtet, die im Hinblick auf ihre epidemiologische Bedeutung diskutiert werden: a) Virustoleranz als ein Leistungsmerkmal von Unterlagen, das einen wirtschaftlichen Kirschenanbau auch in Gebieten, in denen mit einer zuflligen Infektion mit Kirschenringfleckenviren gerechnet werden mu, garantiert; b) Hypersensitivitt als eine Mglichkeit in Vermehrungsbestnden (z.B. Samenspenderanlagen und Muttergrten), die durch aufwndige phytosanitre Manahmen virusfrei gehalten werden, eine zufllige Infektion zu stoppen und auf diese Weise Pflanzenmaterial, dessen Wert in seiner Virusfreiheit liegt, zu erhalten.
24126640|A total of 44 apricot genotypes belonging to germplasm collection of Corvinus University (Budapest, Hungary), BOKU University (IOG, Vienna) and the Research Centre for Agriculture and Forestry Laimburg (Italy) were screened with 10 microsatellite primer pairs previously developed in apricot. All primers produced polymorphic amplification patterns, revealing 85 different alleles. The mean number of alleles per locus was 8.5 Out of them, 21 alleles occurred only once in the investigated samples. The observed heterozygosity for individual loci ranged from 0.9545 to 0.3182 with an average of 0.6604. A UPGMA dendrogram based on Nei's genetic distance divided the cultivars into two groups that reflect their geographic origin, one with genotypes originating from Europe and the other with genotypes from Central Asia. Implications of these data for the use of SSR markers as a tool for fingerprinting cultivars in breeder's right protection, but also in assisting breeding and selection programmes in apricot are discussed.
24126886|Phytophthora spp. (capsici and parasitica) and Meloidogyne incognita are major pathogens of pepper in the greenhouses of south Southern Spain. Grafting on rootstocks carrying genes for resistance to the pathogens was evaluated as an alternative to chemical disinfection of soil. Under controlled conditions, the response to co-infection of M. incognita and Phytophthora capsici or P. parasitica of 7 rootstocks resistant to Phytophthora was evaluated. Two populations of M. incognita, race 2, were collected from peppers and were used for this study; one virulent on pepper rootstock Atlante (hybrid F1 of Serrano Criollo Morelos 334, resistant to M. incognita), and the other avirulent. Two Phytophthora isolates were tested, one highly aggressive of P. capsici, the other less aggressive P. parasitica. The infestation with M. incognita did not increase the percentage of plants affected by P. capsici or P. parasitica. The avirulent M. incognita population did not infest any rootstocks carrying Me3 or Me1 genes. The virulent population infest lowly three rootstocks two carrying Me1 and one carrying Me3. In the rootstocks infested by M. incognita, Phytophthora was reisolated from the root lesions, although the plant did not show any wilt or root-rot Symptoms.
24126619|Carrot is one of the major vegetable crops produced and consumed in Switzerland. In the past years poor shelf life of carrots has led to frequent complaints from consumers and retailers. The most critical deficiency was the development of black root rot spot on carrots caused by Chalara species. Previous investigations showed that all the tested fields in the main carrot production regions of Switzerland were contaminated with Chalara sp. In Switzerland, carrots for long term storage are harvested in October and early November. They then are stored in wooden bins in refrigerated rooms for a period of up to seven months. It is recommended to use perforated plastic bin liners to minimize water losses of carrots. The effect of Chalara field contamination, cooling techniques, storage with or without polyethylene liners on overall yield of marketable carrots, quality traits and the occurrence of black root rot were investigated. Storage of carrots at temperatures between 04 C prevented the development of Chalara. Excessive water losses resulted in wilting of carrots, and maintenance of high air humidity was critical during the entire storage. Hence, lining bins with perforated plastic foil is advisable in most storage rooms. In addition, replacing recycled water with fresh tap water during carrot washing and the maintenance of a closed cool chain below 8 C after washing, packaging and in retail prevented the occurrence of black root rot and other decay. In conclusion, proper postharvest processing, in particular optimal washing operations, can assure acceptable shelf life and high quality of carrots grown in Chalara infested fields.
24126355|Yield and fruit characteristics of eggplant, cv. 'Delica' (flask type fruit), were studied in relation to grafting and K rate. The vegetative growth and yield of plants grafted on to tomato rootstocks cv. '515' and '516' (Spyrou A.E.B.E., Athens) was superior to that of the non-grafted control, whereas plants grafted on to eggplant rootstocks cv. '494' and '543' (Spyrou A.E.B.E., Athens) showed similar development and yield to that of the control. The root systems of the tomato rootstocks were appreciably larger than those of the eggplant rootstocks, and this is likely to have encouraged the better vegetative growth of the former. Differences in yield were primarily due to larger sized fruit harvested from plants grafted on to tomato rootstocks, and fruit number was generally higher. Increasing the K content had a variable effect on mean fruit weight and yield of eggplant grafted on to tomato rootstocks, increasing both these parameters in experiment 1 (planting in early spring), but having virtually no effect in experiment 2 (summer planting). Rootstock or K rate did not affect the mineral composition of the fruit. It is concluded that for greenhouse eggplant cultivated under warm conditions, tomato may be the preferable rootstock for grafting. When planting occurs early in spring, a higher K rate may also be beneficial. An Auberginen der Sorte 'Delica' (flaschenfrmiger Typ) wurde der Einfluss von Veredlung und K-Dngung auf Erntemenge und Fruchteigenschaften untersucht. Das vegetative Wachstum und die Erntemenge war bei auf den Tomatenunterlagen '515' und '516' (Spyrou A.E.B.E., Athens) veredelten Pflanzen besser als bei der nicht veredelten Kontrolle, whrend Pflanzen, die auf den Auberginenunterlagen '494' und '543' (Spyrou A.E.B.E., Athens) veredelt waren, in Entwicklung und Ertrag der Kontrolle hnelten. Die Wurzelsysteme der Tomatenunterlagen waren deutlich strker ausgebildet als die der Auberginenunterlagen, was vermutlich das vegetative Wachstum ersterer frderte. Die grere Erntemenge bei auf Tomatenunterlagen veredelten Pflanzen war vor allem auf grere Frchte, aber auch auf die hheren Fruchtzahlen zurckzufhren. Die hhere K-Gabe hatte in den beiden Versuchsjahren unterschiedliche Auswirkungen auf Erntemenge und Fruchtqualitt der auf Tomatenunterlagen veredelten Auberginen: In Versuch 1 (Pflanzen im zeitigen Frhjahr) stiegen beide Parameter an, in Versuch 2 (Pflanzen im Sommer) zeigte sich praktisch keine Wirkung. Unterlage und K-Dngung hatten keinen Einfluss auf die mineralischen Inhaltstoffe der Frchte. Zusammenfassend kann festgestellt werden, dass fr in warmen Gebieten kultivierte Gewchshaus-Auberginen Tomaten wahrscheinlich die geeigneteren Unterlagen sind. Bei Pflanzungen im zeitigen Frhjahr kann eine hhere K-Gabe frderlich sein.
24126510|The effect of fruit bagging on the quality of 'Conference' pears (Pyrus communis L.) was evaluated over two growing seasons. The experiment was conducted in three treatments: bagged until harvest, where the paper bags were left on the fruit until harvest time (150 days after full bloom (DAFB)); bagged until 7 days before harvest, where the bags were removed seven days before harvest (143 DAFB); and the control  not bagged at any time. Bagged fruit were covered with paper bags in mid-June, 65 DAFB, at an early stage offrait growth. HPLC analysis was performed for individual sugars, organic acids in whole fruit, and phenolic compounds in the skin and pulp. The year had considerable influence on observed fruit parameters. Bagging had a negative impact on sucrose and sorbitol content. The bagged fruit were brighter (higher L*) than the control fruit. The reduction of colour (increased L* parameter and hue angle around 95) by bagging may have a negative effect on consumer appeal. In second growing season bagging reduced fruit weight to such extend, that fruit were under 110 g and therefore not marketable. Bagging of pear fruit increased some phenolic compounds in the skin. Epicatechin and caffeic acid contents in skin were highest in bagged fruit. Removing the bags seven days before harvest decreased arbutin content in the pulp and also total sugars in the whole fruit and therefore fruit may have poorer eating quality. Quercetin 3-O-rhamnoside content in skin decreased in both years among fruit bagged until harvest. We don't recommend the use of bagging for 'Conference' pear in European growth conditions.
24126647|Out of five fertilizer managements applied to a 'Huangguan' pear orchard, a bio-organic fertilizer inoculated with Bacillus polymyxa (BOF) resulted in increased new shoot length, leaf area, hundred leaf weights, single fruit weight compared to the unfertilized control, while the leaf chlorophyll content was not significantly influenced. At maturity, the fruit yield in BOF treatment was significantly higher than the other treatments. Significantly higher sugar contents but lower organic acid contents were obtained by the application of BOF and organic-inorganic compound fertilizer (CF) compared to control or conventional fertilization containing only chemical fertilizers (CV). At the same time, organic fertilization, especially BOF treatment, led to higher amounts of soil bacteria, fungi and actinomycetes compared to control or CV treatments. Taken together, BOF application had a vital role in tree growth, fruit taste and fruit quality improvement.
24126269|The influence of NH4-N/total-N supply ratio (Nr) via the nutrient solution on plant growth, yield and fruit quality was investigated in a tomato crop grown in a closed hydroponic system using perlite as a substrate. Nr was set at 0.05, 0.10, 0.15, 0.20 and 0.25 on a molar basis. Increasing Nr to values above 0.10 restricted progressively the vegetative growth, the fruit yield and quality, and enhanced markedly the incidence of blossom-end rot. Furthermore, the increase of Nr above 0.15 resulted in long-term decrease of pH in the rhizosphere to levels below 5, as indicated by the pH values measured in the drainage water. The high ammonium supply ratios had no effect on the leaf K, P, and micronutrient concentrations, as well as on the aluminium content in leaves and roots, but restricted significantly the Ca and Mg concentrations in roots, leaves and fruits to values below critical levels. In contrast, the concentrations of both chlorophyll and organically bound nitrogen in the leaf were enhanced by the increasing Nr. It is postulated that tomato is susceptible to increasing Nr in hydroponics due to suppression of the rhizosphere pH below critical levels and competitive restriction of Ca and Mg uptake by ammonium, which acts synergistically with the low pH. Der Einfluss des NH4-N/Gesamt-N-Verhltnisses (Nr) in der Nhrlsung auf das Pflanzenwachstum, die Erntemenge und Fruchtqualitt wurde an einer Tomatenkultur untersucht, die in einem geschlossenen hydroponischen System auf Perlit kultiviert wurde. Nr wurde auf molarer Basis auf Werte von 0.05, 0.10, 0.15, 0.20 bis 0.25 eingestellt. Ansteigendes Nr ber 0.10 beeintrchtigte zunehmend das vegetative Wachstum, die Erntemenge und Qualitt der Frchte und begnstigte das Auftreten der Bltenendfule merklich. Desweiteren fhrte ein Nr Wert ber 0.15 zu einer langfristigen pH-Absenkung auf Werte unter 5, was sich durch Messen der pH-Werte im Drainagewasser nachgewiesen wurde. Der hohe Ammonium-Versorgungsgrad hatte keinen Einfluss auf den K-, P-, und Mikroelementegehalt in den Blttern, genauso wenig wie auf den Aluminiumgehalt in Blttern und Wurzeln, begrenzte aber den Ca- und Mg-Gehalt in Wurzeln, Blttern und Frchten auf Werte unterhalb eines kritischen Maes. Im Gegensatz dazu erhhten sich die Konzentrationen sowohl des Chlorophylls wie auch des organisch gebundenen Stickstoffs im Laub durch den ansteigenden Nr-Wert. Es wird angenommen, dass Tomaten empfindlich reagieren auf hhere Nr-Werte in Nhrlsungen, was durch Absenken des pHs in der Rhizosphre unter einen kritischen Wert und durch die Begrenzung der Aufnahme von Ca und Mg durch den Gegenspieler Ammonium, das synergistisch zum niedrigen pH wirkt, hervorgerufen wird.
24126103|As an introductory survey for assessment of the risk for dispersal of plant diseases in a closed hydroponic outdoor cultivation system for nursery stock production the dynamics of the microflora inhabiting the roots of selected crops and inhabiting different localities within the irrigation system were studied using sole carbon source utilization. Chamaecyparis lawsoniana, Ribes sanguineum and Symphoricarpos were used as target crops. Analyses of irrigation water focused on three layers in the irrigation pond (surface, epilimnion; mid layer at 40 cm depth, metalimnion; bottom at 200 cm depth, hypolimnion). Root and water samples were collected with five replicates at three cardinal incidents during the vegetation period (autumn; spring; summer). Additional samples were taken from other water sources feeding into the irrigation pond, namely the three wells (spring and summer) and the retained irrigation effluent (summer). The present study indicated shifts in functional diversity during the vegetation period, regarding both the grown crops and location within the irrigation system. It also showed differences between the chosen habitats. Differences also occurred between the sampling incidents with respect to utilization of Pythium specific carbon sources. With respect to carbon sources specific for Pythium ssp., utilization was high for the microflora of all three crops and started after a short lag-phase. Further, also utilization of Pythium specific carbon sources by the microflora inhabiting the studied water habitats was substantial. Discriminant analysis (DA) of the functional diversity at the chosen sampling sites with respect to sampling incidents was dominated by carbon sources specific for Pythium. However, utilization of precursors for phenolic compound metabolism, malonic acid and phenylalanine, was low in most cases. An negative correlation between -D-glucose, D-trehalose and cis-aconitic acid to phenylalanine was found for the root samples during the second sampling. Some compounds (D-fructose, -D-lactose, D-raffinose, L-aspartic acid, glycyl-L-aspartic acid, urocanic acid, glycerol, glucose-1-phosphate, glucose-6-phosphate) were found as discriminating between the samplings occurred for several of the studied habitats. In einer einfhrenden Studie zum Verstndnis der Risiken der Verbreitung von Krankheitserregern in geschlossenen Kultursystemen im Freiland wurde die Dynamik der Mikroflora an ausgewhlten Habitaten innerhalb eines geschlossenen Baumschulsystems anhand von Verwendungsmustern einzelner Kohlenstoffquellen (SCSU; Microlog GN-Panel) untersucht. Die Analyse konzentrierte sich auf die wurzelkolonisierende Mikroflora von drei Kulturen (Chamaecyparis lawsoniana, Ribes sanguineum, Symphoricarpos) und auf die Mikroflora, die verschiedene Schichten des Bewsserungsteiches besiedelt (Epi-, Meta- und Hy-polimnion in 200 cm Tiefe) mit Probenentnahme zu drei Zeitpunkten whrend der Vegetationsperiode (Herbst, Frhjahr, Sommer). Ausserdem wurden zustzliche Wasserquellen (Brunnen 1+3, Brunnen 2, rezirkuliertes Bewsserungswasser) innerhalb eines Erwerbsbaumschulsystems an zwei (Frhjahr, Sommer) bzw. einem Zeitpunkt (Sommer) whrend der Vegetationsperiode untersucht. Proben aus smtlichen Habitaten wurden mit fnf Wiederholungen gezogen. Die vorliegende Studie weist auf Vernderungen in der funktionellen Diversitt whrend der Vegetationsperiode zwischen den Kulturen und zwischen den Probenentnahmezeitpunkten hin. Ausserdem wurden Unterschiede zwischen den gewhlten Probeentnahmepltzen im Bewsserungssystem gefunden. Signifikante Unterschiede zwischen den Probenentnahmezeitpunkten traten auch hinsichtlich der Verwendung Pythium-spezifischer Kohlenstoffquellen auf. Bezglich der Verwendung Pythium-spezifischer Quellen stieg die Verwendung besonders schnell in den Wurzelproben an. Aber auch in den untersuchten Habitaten innerhalb des Bewsserungssystems kam eine bedeutende Verwendung Pythium-spezifischer Quellen vor. Die Analyse der Habitate in Bezug auf Probenentnahmezeitpunkte mit Hilfe der Diskriminantanalyse (DA) wurde von Pythium-spezifischen Kohlenstoffquellen dominiert. Die Verwendung von Substanzen, die die Vorstufen fr die Produktion von phenolischen Stoffen sind (Malonsure, Phenylalanin) war in den meisten Fllen gering und trat erst nach lngerer Inkubationszeit auf. Eine negative Korrelation konnte zwischen einigen Pythium-spezifischen Substanzen (-D-Glukose, D-Trehalose and cis-Aconitonsure) und Pheylalanin bei der zweiten Probenentnahme festgestellt werden. Einige Substanzen (D-Fruktose, -D-Laktose, D-Raffinose, L-Asparaginsure, Glycyl-L-Asparaginsure, Harnsure, Glyzerol, Glukose-1-Phosphat, Glukose-6-Phosphat) zeichneten in der DA als determinierend fr mehrere der untersuchten Habitate aus.
24134269|Osteospermum cv. belongs to the so called 'New ornamental plants', which gained much popularity over the last few years. A collection of 111 Osteospermum and nine Dimorphotheca genotypes were evaluated by AFLP (Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphism) analysis. In the present study we analysed the genetic diversity within breeding pools from different breeders together with a selection of wild species. The genotypes could be grouped into four main clusters. While Faccioli et al. (2000) were able to classify the genotypes by origin of the cultivar, no such relation was found in the present work. Yellow flower colour, assumed to originate from only a few genetic sources was found in all four major clusters. However, within the clusters these genotypes were grouped together. Overall genetic distances among Osteospermum genotypes turned out to be small emphasizing the need to optimise the choice of parental genotypes in breeding programs aiming at low inbreeding depression. Three different cluster methods (UPGMA, Fitch and Margoliash and Neighbour-joining) were used to calculate the phenograms. To estimate the reliability of dendrograms a bootstrap-analysis has been carried out with 100 replicates. The phenograms revealed only marginal differences between the methods. These differences are mainly found for groups with small bootstrap-values, including interspecific hybrids. In addition to cluster analyses, the data set was analysed by principal component analysis (PCA) to display similarities among genotypes. The same four major groups could be distinguished supporting the cluster analyses. The AFLP data are complemented with data from two chloroplast SSR markers which allows the differentiation of eight cytoplasmic lineages among the genotypes investigated.
24126435|The culturable bacteria living as associated and endophytic microorganisms in tissue cultures of black locust selected randomly from roots as well as shoots were characterized. During a ten week cultivation period, the population density increased by approximately 102 to 103, and showed the highest density in the root tissue by approximately 108 to 109 cfu g-1 fresh weight. Sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene of 119 isolated strains revealed 20 different genotypes belonging to six genera from the phyla Actinobacteria and Proteobacteria. The Actinobacteria which represented the majority of isolates were divided into up to 12 16S rDNA genotypes belonging to the genera Microbacterium and Curtobacterium. The Proteobacteria (8 genotypes) was comprised of the genera Sphingomonas (2 genotypes), Methylobacterium (1 genotype), Acidovorax (1 genotype), and Dyella (4 genotypes).
24126180|Jojoba [Simmondsia chinensis (Link) Schneider.] explants were cultured in vitro under four levels of sodium chloride concentration during the shoot proliferation stage. The dry weight of explants as well as their water and carbohydrate content were determined during a three-month period at month intervals. Jojoba expiants were tolerant to salinity up to a certain level (0.66 % w/v sodium chloride), showing increased water uptake and dry weight compared to the control. Sucrose and pinitol content were found to be higher in expiants grown under saline conditions, while the opposite stood for glucose. Fructose, inositol and starch content did not exhibit any significant changes with salinity. Carbohydrates may play an osmoprotective role in jojoba salt tolerance under in vitro conditions, by enhancing water uptake from the medium up to a certain salinity level (0.66 % w/v), revealing thus an adaptive response of the species against the increased salinization of the growth medium. Jojoba-[Simmondsia chinensis (Link) Schneider.] Explantate wurden whrend der in vitro Proliferationsphase bei vier verschiedenen Natriumchlorid-Konzentrationen kultiviert. Das Trockengewicht der Explantate sowie ihr Wasser- und Kohlenhydratgehalt wurden whrend einer dreimonatigen Periode in monatlichen Abstnden ermittelt. Jojoba-Explantate waren bis zu einer bestimmten Salzkonzentration (0.66 % w/v Natriumchlorid), tolerant und reagierten im Vergleich zur Kontrolle mit Erhhung von Wasseraufnahme und Trockengewicht. Der Saccharoseund der Pinitolgehalt waren in den Explantaten, die unter Salzeinfluss kultiviert wurden, hher, whrend das Entgegengesetzte fr Glukose zutraf. Fructose-, Inositol- und Strkegehalt zeigten keine signifikanten nderungen mit dem Salzgehalt. Bis zu einer Salzkonzentration von 0.66 % w/v knnen Kohlenhydrate durch ihre Steigerung der Wasseraufnahme aus dem Substrat eine osmoprotektive Rolle in der Jojoba-Salztoleranz unter in vitro Bedingungen spielen und folglich eine Anpassung an erhhte Salzkonzentrationen im Substrat aufdecken.
24126167|In this study, effects of PE-UV (UV stabilised polyethylene), PE-IR (IR absorbers polyethylene), D-PE (double layer polyethylene) and PE (polyethylene) used as greenhouse covers, on growth, development and yield of aubergine were investigated over three spring seasons (1999, 2000, 2001). The greenhouse covered with PE had the highest light transmission, followed by PE-UV, PE-IR and D-PE, respectively. Based on the results, covering materials were ranked as D-PE, PE-IR, PE-UV and PE in terms of temperature in the greenhouses. Vapour pressure deficit was highest in PE, and followed by PE-IR, PE-UV and D-PE covered greenhouses. Plant growth in D-PE houses was faster than that of the plants in PE-UV, PE-IR, PE covered greenhouses. Some parameters regarding plant growth in D-PE and PE-IR covered greenhouses were found to be similar. The highest yield was obtained from the greenhouses covered with D-PE and this was followed by PE-UV, PE-IR and PE covered greenhouses. These results showed that D-PE was superior to the other covering materials for optimal plant growth and earliness of aubergine yield under the studied experimental conditions. Es wurde die Wirkung von Gewchshausabdeckungen aus PE-UV (UV stabilisiertem Polyethylen), PE-IR (IR absorbierendem Polyethylen), D-PE (doppellagigem Polyethylen) und PE (Polyethylen) auf das Wachstum, die Entwicklung und die Erntemenge von Auberginen bei Frhjahrskulturen (1999,2000,2001) untersucht. Das PE gedeckte Gewchshaus wies die hchste Lichtdurchlssigkeit auf, gefolgt von PE-UV, PE-IR bzw. D-PE. Hinsichtlich des Faktors Gewchshaustemperatur ergab sich folgende Reihung: D-PE, PE-IR, PE-UV und PE. Das Dampfdruckdefizit war bei Gewchshausabdeckungen aus PE am hchsten, gefolgt von PE-IR, PE-UV and D-PE. Das Pflanzenwachstum war in D-PE Husern strker als in PE-UV, PE-IR, PE Gewchshusern. Einige Wachstumsparameter waren in D-PE und PE-IR Husern sehr hnlich. Die hchste Erntemenge wurde in D-PE Husern gefolgt von PE-UV, PE-IR und PE erzielt. Diese Ergebnisse zeigen, dass unter den gewhlten Bedingungen D-PE als Gewchshausabdeckung hinsichtlich Wachstum und Frhzeitigkeit der Auberginen den anderen untersuchten Materialien berlegen ist.
24126280|Four grape cultivars namely 'Flame Seedless', 'Thompson Seedless', 'Sharad Seedless' and 'Tas-A-Ganesh' (mutant of 'Thompson Seedless') were given different levels of moisture stress to study their physiological responses. The marginal reduction in photosynthesis and greater reduction in transpiration rate in 'Flame Seedless' have resulted in higher water use efficiency (WUE) in this variety under moisture stress. Testing of five rootstocks Dogridge, Salt Creek, 1613 C, St. George and Vitis chamipnii (VC) clone for drought tolerance revealed better performance of Dogridge under moisture stress conditions in terms of increased root to shoot length ratio, root to shoot dry weight ratio, increased accumulation of abscissic acid (ABA) and reduced cytokinin concentration. Budding three cultivars 'Flame Seedless', 'Thompson Seedless' and 'Sharad Seedless' on different rootstocks viz., Dogridge, Salt Creek and VC clone and subjecting to moisture stress resulted in better performance of 'Flame Seedless' and 'Sharad Seedless' budded on Dogridge in terms of increased WUE and ABA content under 50 % moisture stress. Own rooted 'Sharad Seedless' recorded least WUE under 50 % moisture stress, but when it was budded on Dogridge and subjected to moisture stress it recorded higher WUE suggesting the role of some rootstocks in manipulating the physiological changes in few scion cultivars grafted on them.
24126418|The effects of Arbuscular Mycorrhizal (AM) fungus species Glomus mosseae and Glomus intraradices on growth and leaf nutrition status of grapevine rootstocks, '5 BB' (Vitis berlandieri x Vitis riparia), '1613 C' (Vitis solonis x Vitis riparia cv. 'Gloire de Montpellier'), '41 B' (Vitis vinifera L. cv. 'Chasselas' x Vitis berlandieri) and Vitis vinifera L. cv. 'Early Cardinal', were investigated. Dormant cuttings of representative genotypes were rooted in perlite and transplanted into black polyethylene bags containing fumigated growing medium. Mycorrhizal inoculation was performed using 1000 mycorrhizal spores per plant, 50 mm under rooted grape cuttings. The development of the grapevine genotypes was significantly affected by mycorrhizal inoculation. Both fungi promoted significant increases in shoot and root growth and leaf P and Zn concentrations. Considering the overall results, G. mosseae appears to have a greater effect on shoot growth parameters, and G. intraradices appears to have a greater effect on root growth parameters and leaf P and Zn concentrations. Therefore, G. intraradices would be anticipated to aid vines to overcome element deficiencies in especially areas where P and Zn deficiency predominate.
24126503|This study was undertaken to evaluate the effects of several mycorrhizal fungi species and their cocktail on eggplant (Solanum melongena L.) seedling growth, P and Zn uptake. Three greenhouse experiments were continued consecutively for 3 years to evaluate the effects of several mycorrhizal species (Glomus species) on eggplant seedling production and growth before transplanting to field conditions. Arbuscular Mycorrhizae Fungi (AMF) used were Glomus mosseae, G. clarum, G. caledonium, G. intraradices and G. etunicatum and their mixture. In Experiment I, the plant was harvested once and there were two harvests in Experiment II and III. The results of the three experiments revealed that mycorrhizal fungi significandy infected eggplant and all mycorrhizal inoculated plants showed better performance than non inoculated plants in terms of plant growth, P and Zn uptake. According to results of Experiment I, the better mycorrrizal species were G. intraradices, G. etunicatum and G. clarum. In Experiment II, G. etunicatum and cocktail mycorrhizae and in Experiment III, G. caledonium and G. mosseae inoculums were more effective species. The results show that mycorrhizal inoculation is necessary for healthy and vigorous seedling production. Seed and seedling stages mycorrhizal inoculation can be used for high quality seedling for field inoculation.
24126835|In 1960, a breeding program was initiated in Morden, Manitoba to develop winter hardy rootstocks for cold climates and then the program was transferred to Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, Horticultural Research and Development Centre, at St-Jean-sur-Richelieu, Quebec. 'SJM167' (St-Jean Morden 167) and 'SJM188' (St-Jean Morden 188) were selected from the initial population and evaluated since 1970 in replicated trials. These two rootstocks were found to be very winter hardy, disease resistant, dwarfing, with good yield efficiency and were released for commercial evaluation and presently available from Canadian Food Inspection Agency in BC or from Meiosis Inc. in Europe (http://www.meiosis.co.uk).
24126183|This study was carried out to determine the potential and response of eggplant to intercropping with bean, cos lettuce and leaf lettuce under greenhouse conditions in 2000 and 2001. The study has shown that early and total yield of eggplant were not affected by intercropping compared to sole cropping. However, intercropping increased significantly the net income compared to sole cropping. The highest net income was obtained by the eggplant+cos lettuce intercropping system, whereas the lowest was obtained by eggplant sole cropping. Land equivalent ratios (LER) were always greater than 1 in intercropping systems. In both years, the intercropping system of eggplant+leaf lettuce gave the highest LER value as 1.21 and 1.18, respectively. Diese Untersuchungen wurden in den Jahren 2000 und 2001 durchgefhrt, um bei Auberginen unter Gewchshausbedingungen die Mglichkeiten und Reaktionen einer Unterkultur mit Buschbohnen, Rmischem Salat und Pflcksalat zu ermitteln. Dabei zeigte sich, dass die Zwischenpflanzung im Vergleich zur alleinigen Auberginenkultur keinen Einfluss auf den frhen Erntebeginn und die Erntemenge hat. Allerdings erhhte die Zwischenkultur das Nettoeinkommen erheblich. Das hchste Nettoeinkommen konnte mit der Kombination Auberginen und Rmischem Salat, das geringste mit der alleinigen Auberginenkultur erzielt werden. Die Flchenqivalentwerte (LER) lagen bei allen Zwischenkulturkombinationen ber 1. In beiden Versuchsjahren erbrachte die Kombination Auberginen und Pflcksalat den hchsten LER-Wert mit 1.21 bzw. 1.18.
24126290|24 simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers were isolated and characterized in P. pseudocerasus LindI. from the cultivar 'Laiyang Short cherry'. To amplify SSR loci primers were developed to flank each repeat region. and they were initially tested on 6 cherry samples using chemiluminescence detection. 18 loci where shown to be polymorphic and the number of alleles detected per locus varied from 2 to 6. 12 loci were chosen for the analysis of 26 cultivars grown in North China using the semi-automatic system ABI PRISM 377. These 12 markers showed a high level of genetic polymorphism with a total of 75 alleles; the number of alleles ranged from 4 to 10 per locus, with an average level of 6.3. The mean expected and observed heterozygosity was 0.743 (range: 0.6800.845) and 0.829 (range: 0.7300.930) respectively. The estimated frequency of null alleles showed a positive value for 3 loci, but except for 1 locus, the values were very low. The total value for the probability of identity was 7.0110-13. Paternity exclusion probability was very high (0.999), sufficiently high to study pollen flow.
24126233|The objective of the study was to determine the responses of rose flower buds to aerial environmental conditions. Since environmental conditions may affect various plant organs differently, it was important to determine the contribution of these organs to bud development. Rose plants were grown in a greenhouse in southern Israel for three years under different cooling systems throughout the summer. Evaporative cooling with a wet pad was the most effective system for preventing a decline in plant water potential, mainly during midsummer. Water potential of the flower bud was higher than that of the stem, regardless of season and treatment. The season of flower development had the most marked effect on flower bud fresh weight. Night cooling during spring and early summer was the only treatment that provided a slight increase in flower bud weight and in its relative weight out of the total flower weight. The increase in flower bud diameter was nearly linear with time, regardless of season, while stem elongation was logarithmic and then leveled off. The development of both organs extended much longer in the winter than in the summer, resulting in longer stems and larger buds. A mechanistic model was developed in order to determine the relative contribution of various organs to the bud. The flower stem and leaves contributed 50 to 67 % of the final bud dry weight, while the rest was comprised of the bud sepals, small bent branches and structural branches. The contribution by the bud sepals, was markedly enhanced, by night cooling. Fresh weight of the flower bud was highly correlated with flower leaf area and weight (including stem weight) but not with stem length. Gegenstand der Untersuchung war, die Reaktionen von Rosenbltenknospen auf atmosphrische Bedingungen im Gewchshaus zu ermitteln. Da diese Umweltbedingungen vermutlich unterschiedlich stark auf die einzelnen Pflanzenorgane einwirken, war es wichtig den Beitrag, den diese Organe zur Knospenbildung leisten, zu untersuchen. Hierfr wurden im Sden Israels drei Jahre lang Rosen in Gewchshusern kultiviert, die whrend des Sommers mittels unterschiedlicher Methoden gekhlt wurden. Verdunstungskhlung mit Khlmatten war die wirkungsvollste Methode, um vor allem im Hochsommer einen Rckgang des Pflanzenwasserpotentials zu verhindern. Das Wasserpotential der Bltenknospen war unabhngig von Jahreszeit und Behandlung hher als das der Stngel. Die Jahreszeit, in der sich die Blten entwickelten, hatte den deutlichsten Effekt auf das Bltenknospenfrischgewicht. Nchtliche Khlung im Frhjahr und Frhsommer war die einzige Behandlung, die zu einem geringfgigen Anstieg des Bltenknospengewichts und des relativen Gewichts im Verhltnis zum Bltengesamtgewicht fhrte. Der Anstieg des Bltenknospendurchmessers war unabhngig von der Jahreszeit annhernd linear zur Entwicklungsdauer, whrend das Lngenwachstum des Stngels einen logarithmischen Verlauf nahm und dann abflachte. Die Entwicklung beider Organe dauerte im Winter sehr viel lnger als im Sommer und fhrte zu lngeren Stngeln und greren Knospen. Es wurde ein Modell entwickelt, um den relativen Beitrag der einzelnen Organe zur Knospe zu bestimmen. Der Bltenstngel und die Bltter erbringen 50 bis 67 % des endgltigen Knospentrockengewichts, whrend der Rest aus den Kelchblttern, kleinen Nebentrieben und dem Pflanzengrundgerst entsteht. Der Beitrag der Kelchbltter wird durch Nachtkhlung deutlich erhht. Das Frischgewicht der Bltenknospen war stark mit der Bltenblattflche und dem Gewicht (einschlielich Stngelgewicht) jedoch nicht mit der Stngellnge korreliert.
24126868|Deficit irrigation (DI) at phenological stages less sensitive to water stress (pit hardening and post-harvest stage) influenced fruit quality, plant growth, return bloom and incidence of double fruits in nectarines. Four irrigation levels: control irrigation (CI), DI 75 (75 % of CI), DI 58 (58 % of CI) and DI 33 (33 % of DI) were applied in 'Spring Bright" and 'Summer Bright' nectarines during pit hardening and post-harvest stages. DI 58 and DI 33 treatments resulted in development of intense red fruit colour and early maturity in 'Spring Bright'. DI 33 improved fruit colour in 'Summer Bright', soluble solids concentrations (SSC) and SSC/acid ratio in both cultivars. DI 33 treatment decreased glucose and fructose at harvest in 'Spring Bright' and increased glucose in 'Summer Bright". DI 58 and DI 33 treatments improved the levels of total phenolics, antioxidant capacity, ascorbic acid and carotenoids in the fruit of both cultivars with acceptable fruit weight in comparison to CI. DI 33 treatment significantly increased the total anthocyanin content in fruit peel and reduced water sprout length in both cultivars. In subsequent season, the DI 58 and DI 33 treatments increased flower density in 'Spring Bright" and incidence of double fruit in either cultivar. Conclusively, DI improved fruit colour, SSC/acid ratio and nutraceutical levels; and reduced water sprout length. Further, it increased flower density and double fruits in the subsequent season.
24126334|Thyme (Thymus vulgaris L.) is a medicine and spice plant, which is cultivated in Poland, Spain, the South of France, Italy, Greece and Germany. The full flower of thyme plants can be induced only after winters with low temperatures. An artificial vernalisation at 3 C for six weeks induced the flowers. Sixteen hours lighting were needed for an optimal development of the full flowers. The artificial flower induction can accelerate the generation cycle of thyme. Crossing works were independent of the natural development rhythm of plants. The seed yields of progeny individuals with vernalisation can be increased. Additionally, vernalisation increased the herb yields in autumn. The vernalisation can be used to accelerate breeding programs and to improve the appearance for sale as ornamental plant.
24126905|In Scandinavia, red fescue (Festuca rubra) requires less pesticides, fertilizers, irrigation water and energy for mowing than other species used on golf greens. USGA golf greens have traditionally been constructed with peat as organic amendment to the sand-based rootzone, but compost could be a sustainable alternative. Our objective was to evalute the effects of using composted garden waste (commercial product 'Green Mix'; GM) in the rootzone or topdressing sand during grow-in and maintenance of a young green aiming for a monoculture of red fescue. A field trial was carried out from Aug. 2011 to Nov. 2012 at Bioforsk Landvik, SE Norway. GM rootzones were compared with peat-amended rootzones and GM topdress with straight sand topdress in a factorial design with four treatment and four blocks. Plots were seeded with 97 % red fescue and 3 % annual bluegrass (Poa annua) to study the competition between the two species. Because of a higher nutrient content, fertilizer inputs during grow-in from August to November 2011 were 50 % lower to the GM rootzones than to the peat-amended rootzones, but this reduced the tiller density by 34 % suggesting that a lower reduction in fertilizer inputs had been more appropriate. In 2012, when all plots received the same amount of fertilizer, GM in the rootzone and/or topdress gave significant improvements in turfgrass general appearance, tiller density, autumn color and resistance to red thread (Laetisaria fuciformis), but annual bluegrass encroachment was worse on GM rootzones than on peat-amended rootzones until July 2012 when it disappeared from all treatments. The percentage of roots colonized by mycorrhiza was slightly but significantly higher for annual bluegrass than for red fescue in spring 2012 and became three times higher on GM rootzones than on peat-amended rootzones during 2012. In conclusion, there are many benefits of using mature and homogeneous compost of garden waste in the rootzones and topdress on red fescue golf greens.
24126824|This study was conducted to delay fruit ripening and enhance fruit quality (size and firmness) of cv. '0900 Ziraat' sweet cherry in Hirkey. For this purpose, ReTain containing 15 % aminoethoxyinylglycine (AVG), was applied at various concentrations (0, 50, or 150 mg L-1) onto fruits and leaves around the fruits of 10-years-old cv. '0900 Ziraat' sweet cherry on 'Gisela 5' dwarf rootstock at the straw-yellow stage (about 3035 days prior to the harvest). Fruit maturity was delayed about 46 days in AVG-applied (50 and 100 mg L-1) fruits. Application of AVG increased the fruit size and fruit mass of cv '0900 Ziraat' sweet cherry. All AVG concentrations led to firmer fruit relative to the unsprayed control fruits. Effects of AVG concentrations on SSC were not significant. Application of AVG decreased the ethylene efflux from the cherry fruit. As a result, application of AVG at 50 or 100 mg L-1 concentrations at the straw-yellow stage for '0900 Ziraat' sweet cherry variety can be recommended in situations and countries, where this compound is officially approved.
24126382|With the aim of exploiting the regenerative capability of sweet cherry (Prunus avium L.) 'Giorgia', experiments were carried out using suitable plant tissue cultures established in vitro. Relatively high percentages of adventitious shoot regeneration were consistently obtained from in vitro leaves, wounded by three cuts transversely to the midrib, excised from 3-week-old proliferating shoots. The regeneration capacity was influenced by the mineral salts and the plant growth regulator (PGR) composition of the regeneration medium: Woody Plant Medium (WPM) gave the best results and 22.7 M of 1-Phenyl-3-(1,2,3-thiazol-5-yl)urea (thidiazuron, TDZ) induced most adventitious regeneration. The pre-culture of the donor shoots on MS medium with phloroglucinol (PG)-added improved the regeneration rate. Histological studies demonstrated the origin of the adventitious shoots from callus formed by epidermal and sub-epidermal cells as well as by the inner cells of the vascular bundles.
24127097|The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of cultivar, packing material and storage time on the content of phenolic acids and flavonoids in elderflower tea (ET) processed from flowers of the black elder (Sambucus nigra) cultivars 'Sampo', 'Sambu' and 'Samyl'. ET was processed by placing elderflowers in a thin layer on nylon screens in woody frames placed in a cool room and dried using a dehumidified air flow above and below the nylon screens for 96 h at 5 C. The yield of ET for the cultivars 'Sampo', 'Sambu' and 'Samyl' were 12.8 %, 15.7 % and 8.9 %, respectively. A clear significant difference in the content of polyphenols was found between ET processed from die three cultivars. The total content of phenolic acids was significant higher in 'Samyl' (41.3 mg g-1 ET) compared to 'Sampo' (33.8 mg g-1 ET) and 'Sambu' (34.0 mg g-1 ET). 'Sambu' had the lowest content of flavonoids (25.7 mg g-1 ET), whereas the highest content was found in 'Sampo' (33.5 mg g-1 ET). ET samples were packed in bags of brown paper at normal pressure and under vacuum in polyethylene plastic bags and in aluminium foil bags comprised of polyamide, aluminium and polyethylene, respectively, and stored at 0 (non-stored), 3, 6, 9, 12, 15,18 and 21 months. Principal components analysis and multiple linear regression analysis taking into account the correlation and interactions between packing material, storage time and cultivar showed, however, that packing materials and storage time only had a minor effect on the content of phenolic acids and flavonoids in ET. The overall conclusion of the following study is that polyphenols in ET are relatively stable during storage up to 21 months and that the content of phenolic acids and flavonoids in ET is mainly determined by the choice of cultivar/genotype. To maintain a good flavour of ET during storage paper bags are clearly less preferable than aluminium foil and plastic packing materials and therefore the best choice of packing material for ET seem to be aluminium foil based packing materials.
24126448|Production of Vaccinium corymbosum L. is limited to acidic soils with high organic matter content. This specific soil requirement is limiting the possibilities to cultivate V. corymbosum L. in many regions of Central Europe. The aim of this study was to overcome the limiting production factors occurring under the soil and climate conditions of Switzerland: (1) evaluation of natural growing substrates without peat as required for organic production; (2) adjustment of the optimal pH in the growing substrate; (3) regulation of water issues (water quality and mulching) and (4) development of a suited planting system. Pine sawdust was evaluated to be the best alternative growing substrate compared to peat moss. Optimal pH adjustment in pine sawdust substrate was found to be 3.8 (CaCl2) and 4.2 (H2O). In field cultivation, an amount of 30 g S year-1 plant-1 to lower the pH of the pine sawdust ditches was sufficient for good plant and yield development. This acidification resulted in better growth (+48 %) and higher yield (+55 %) when alkaline ground water (357 mg L-1 CaCO3) was used for irrigation. Acidification with citric acid gave poor results. A mulch of pine bark on the sawdust ridge increased growth by 59 % and yield by 25 %.The newly developed flat ditch system with low sawdust ditches buried partly into the ground was as suitable as the standard planting system with deep ditches lined with plastic film. By integration and application of these new findings, a system for commercial organic blueberry production under Swiss conditions and on alkaline soils was developed.
24126629|A time-course analysis of photosynthetic pigment, phenolic, and protein contents was performed on Pelargonium peltatum 'Ville de Paris Red' leaf tissue from the initial cuttings to market maturity, in regard to brown algae [Ecklonia maxima (Osbeck) Papenfuss] extract treatment (Kelpak). Twenty three days after severance a transient decline in total protein values was accompanied by an increased accumulation of total phenolics in all Kelpak applications. The maximum chlorophyll a (110 %), chlorophyll b (44 %) and carotenoid (30 %) contents were measured in leaves of 0.5 % Kelpak treated cuttings when compared to untreated controls. Thirty six days after severance, a more than 220 % increase in total protein contents and a 50 % decline in total phenolics were recorded in untreated cuttings when compared to the previous sampling date. Proteins had accumulated to a significantly higher level, when plants were treated with different Kelpak concentrations. Thirty six days after severance, the highest chlorophyll a (166 %), chlorophyll b (80 %), and total phenolic contents were found in 2.0 % Kelpak treated cuttings when compared to the controls. From the initial cutting to the phase of market maturity, the maximum increases in chl a (185 %), chl b (130 %), lutein (100 %), and tene-caro (222 %) levels, were obtained when the cuttings were treated with 2.0 % Kelpak solution. We further noticed a statistically significant increase in shoot fresh mass for all Kelpak applications when compared to untreated controls, but the highest root fresh mass and shoot/root ratio as well as the maximum number of leaves had developed 2.0 % Kelpak treated cuttings.
24134265|One of the major disorders that develop during storage in Asian pears is fruit internal browning (IB) of the core and/or flesh. The relationship between IB, ascorbic acid (AA) concentrations, total phenolic content (TPC) or polyphenoloxidase (PPO) activity during five months storage was investigated in Asian pear fruit. Mature Asian pear (Pyrus serotina Rehd.) trees cultivar 'KS'13 grown on European pear seedling rootstocks were used during the 2006 growing season. Fruit were harvested on August 1 (H1) and August 15 (H2), representing early and late harvest for this cultivar. Fruit were picked according to the maturity standard based on soluble solid content (SSC), titrable acidity (TA), firmness and background colour and stored at 1 C and 8085 % relative humidity (RH). Results indicated that IB incidence was higher in fruit from H2 than H1. The activity of PPO in disordered fruit varied with the intensity of the disorder. Ascorbic acid decreased during long-term storage and was lower in H2 fruit compared with H1 fruit. There was a trend for IB to develop when the AA concentration dropped below a threshold. This threshold value depended on picking date and time elapsed from storage and varied between about 3.3 to 9.4 mg 100 g-1 FW. The amount of TPC declined during storage in both H1 and H2 fruit as PPO activity and intensity of IB damage increased. It is suggested that the lower incidence of IB in earlier harvested fruit was a result of the presence of a higher level of AA and a lower level of PPO activity than in later harvested fruit.
24126817|Abscission agents could reduce the damage to grapes and the volume of juice released during mechanical harvesting, avoiding undesirable oxidation and fermentation processes before the winemaking begins. Plant growth regulators such as ethephon or methyl jasmonate have been shown to be effective separately to reduce fruit detachment force (FDF) in different grapevine cultivars, however, additive and interaction effects of both products in combined treatments have not been evaluated yet. The objective of this study was to evaluate the potential use of ethephon and methyl jasmonate, separately or in combination, as abscission agents to improve the quality of machine-harvested 'Verdejo' wine grapes. The experiments were conducted in 2009, 2010 and 2011, using a fully crossed factorial design where mature clusters of 'Verdejo' grapevines were sprayed with different solutions containing methyl jasmonate (0, 10, 20 or 40 mmol L-1) and ethephon (0 or 1000 mg L-1). FDF and stem end condition of the berries were monitored for a maximum of 8 days after the applications. Ethephon reduced FDF 4 days after treatment in all growing seasons, maintaining values below those of controls until harvest. Methyl jasmonate had less effect than ethephon and declined FDF from 68 days after the sprayings. An additive effect was detected in the analysis of variance, which makes the combination of ethephon and methyl jasmonate more effective than either agent alone. The lowest FDF values just before harvest corresponded to cotreated plants, with reductions up to 45 % relative to untreated controls. Moreover, combined treatments significantly increased the percentage of detached berries presenting dry stem scars up to 8 days after the application, reaching accumulated values up to 60% in 2011. Both abscission agents little affected must composition parameters, and did not produce adverse effects as preharvest fruit drop or defoliation. These results demonstrate that combined treatments with ethephon and methyl jasmonate are potentially useful to improve quality of mechanically harvested 'Verdejo' grapes. Additional research is needed to provide the exact concentrations of abscission agents required for consistent fruit loosening in practical applications, and to establish the optimal harvester settings in treated vineyards at different growing sites.
24126376|In greenhouse production planning and control both, the greenhouse climate and cost of conditioning are of particular importance. To estimate greenhouse climate, respective plant growth and energy demand the external climatic conditions of the sites have to be processed. The suitability's of Long term normals (Ltn, long term means) and Reference years (Blmel et al. 1986) were tested. The Reference years are considered adequate to forecast the most probable climate for special periods. To derive seasonal trends Ltn are preferred. On the basis of these data and the advanced models of Rath (1992, 1994, 2004, 2007) greenhouse climate and energy demand for heating were estimated. The models of Rath enable to parameterise radiation and air as well as soil temperature in greenhouses as a function of the climate of sites, greenhouse size and type (Venlo block, Wide span greenhouse, height of side panel), energy saving installations (single and double glass, energy screens) and set point for heating. The energy demand for heating (Rath 1994) is calculated on hourly basis for the respective conditions considering ventilation, heat storage in the soil and wind speed.
24127095|Off-season (OS) cropping of Curcuma alismatifolia Gagnep. in Thailand results in a decline in plant growth and flowers quality compared to regular season (RS) cropping. This may be due to the distinct climatic conditions in OS such as short day length, low temperature, water stress etc. which induce changes in some endogenous hormones and alter plant growth and development. The experiments in two cropping season (RS and OS) were conducted to examine the changes to endogenous hormones i.e. abscisic acid, trans-zeatin riboside and indole-3-acetic acid, during the growth cycle. The result indicated that OS cropping brought about a decrease in plant height and flower quality but significantly stimulated the formation of rhizomes compare with RS cropping. The levels of ABA in leaves, old rhizomes and old storage roots were higher and consistently increased during off-season cropping. The maximum concentration of ABA was up to 2.2 g gDW-1 in leaves, 1.4 g gDW-1 in old rhizomes, 1.0 g gDW-1 in old storage roots, 2.3 g gDW-1 in inflorescence, 0.9 g gDW-1 in new rhizomes, and 0.9 g gDW-1 in new storage roots. The levels of ABA in RS cropping were relatively constant throughout growth stages and mostly less than 0.1 g gDW-1. The levels of t-ZR were also slightly higher in leaves, old rhizomes, old storage roots, inflorescence and new rhizomes in OS than RS cropping. The increase of t-ZR in new rhizomes may cause the larger number of new rhizomes in OS cropping (4.8 per plant). The concentration of IAA in leaf exudates was similar between the two growth seasons except in the final stage. Therefore, it could be concluded that OS conditions induced a decrease in the photosynthetic rate, and increases in ABA and t-ZR concentrations in various organs at different growth stages, leading to depressed shoot growth and an increase in rhizome numbers.
24126323|Bell pepper 'Fiesta' (Capsicum annuum L.) was grown in a novel dynamic climate concept called 'Intelli-Grow' together with a number of potted plants aiming to save energy under low light conditions and to optimise photosynthesis (and thereby carbon gain that can be used for growth) under high light conditions. The dynamic climates utilize the plants ability to increase the photosynthesis and productivity under adequate light conditions by allowing temperature to increase while supplying the plants with extra CO2. Energy is saved by allowing the temperature to decrease to lower levels than usual at low light conditions, when the temperature response curve of photosynthesis is very flat. Both temperature and CO2 is determined by the light level (light dependent temperature and CO2 increase in the climate computer). It is possible to reduce the energy use needed for bell pepper growing by up to 21 % in this experiment depending on climate control strategy. Temperatures below 17C results in reduced fruit quality in terms of size and quality and increased risk of grey mould and also a delay in the harvest start. On the other hand the total number of fruits was not affected in a similar way. The standard climate 21/19 day/night with 600 ppm CO2 in light and the dynamic climate using 80% photosynthesis and a minimum temperature set point of 17C, especially in combination with short peaks of higher night temperature gave the same or better harvest and approximately the same quality. The fruits in the warmest climate, however, had a slightly lower dry matter-%. There were limited damages (spots, sun burns) due to the relatively higher temperatures during the day even thought the air temperature was allowed to rise to 30 C during the days. The increased CO2 level might have alleviated some of the potential damages due to high fruit temperatures. The major problem was remains of the flowers on the fruits, which created an entry point for grey mould. The post harvest quality of the fruits was therefore poorer in the dynamic climates due to infection with Botrytis primarily through the flowers and secondarily through the fruit stem. A modified energy saving strategy therefore requires a change in harvest procedure to remove flower remains. Gemse-Paprika (Capsicum annuum L.) der Sorte 'Fiesta' wurde zusammen mit zahlreichen getopften Pflanzen mittels einer neuartigen dynamischen Klimasteuerung ('IntelliGrow') kultiviert. Ziel der Untersuchung war, unter Schwachlichtbedingungen Energie einzusparen und bei hohem Lichtangebot den Photosynthesevorgang zu optimieren (der dabei erzielte Kohlenstoffgewinn kann fr das Wachstum genutzt werden). Die dynamische Klimaregulierung nutzt die Fhigkeit der Pflanzen, die Photosyntheseleistung unter entsprechenden Lichtbedingungen zu erhhen, indem sie hhere Temperaturen zult und die Pflanzen dabei mit zustzlichem CO2 versorgt. Energie wird dadurch gespart, dass die Temperatur unter Schwachlichtbedingungen, wenn die Temperaturreaktionskurve der Photosynthese sehr flach ist, tiefer als allgemein blich fallen darf. Beides, Temperatur und CO2 wird durch die Lichtmenge bestimmt (lichtabhngige Temperatur und CO2 steigen im Klimacomputer an). Diese Untersuchung zeigt, dass es abhngig von der gewhlten Klimastrategie mglich ist, den Energiebedarf bei der Paprikaproduktion um 21 % zu senken. Temperaturen unter 17C bewirken schlechtere Fruchteigenschaften wie abnehmende Gre und Qualitt, erhhten Grauschimmelbefall und verzgerten Erntebeginn. Der Einfluss auf die Anzahl Frchte ist allerdings weniger deutlich. Die Standardklimabedingungen mit 21/19C Tag/ Nachttemperatur und 600 ppm CO2 whrend der Lichtphase und die dynamische Klimabedingungen mit 80 % Photosynthese und einem Minimumtemperatur-Fixpunkt von 17C, v.a. in Kombination mit kurzen Phasen hherer Nachttemperatur, erbrachte eine vergleichbare oder bessere Ernte bei annhernd gleicher Qualitt. Die Frchte, die unter den wrmsten Klimabedingungen gewachsen waren, hatten allerdings einen etwas geringeren Trockensubstanzanteil. Bedingt durch die hheren Temperaturen whrend des Tages, die Lufttemperatur konnte bis auf 30C ansteigen, traten begrenzte Schden (Flecken, Sonnenbrand) auf. Die gesteigerte CO2Menge knnte einen Teil der durch eine hohe Fruchttemperatur verursachten, Schdigungen gelindert haben. Das Hauptproblem stellten die Bltenrckstnde als Angriffsflchen fr Grauschimmel dar. Die Nacherntequalitt der Frchte aus  der dynamischen Klimasteuerung war durch die Botrytis-Infektion, die in erster Linie ber die Blten und in zweiter ber den Fruchtstiel kam, geringer. Eine modifizierte Energiesparmethode bedarf deshalb einer nderung des Erntevorgangs durch zustzliches Entfernen der Bltenrckstnde.
24126271|Seasonal dynamics of the carbohydrates sorbitol, sucrose, glucose and fructose in fruits, leaves and bark and photosynthetic activity were followed in 12-year-old cv. 'Golden Delicious' apple (Malus domestica Borkh.) in response to defruiting in mid August. Photosynthetic activity of leaves decreased in the trees defruited in August compared to fruiting trees in the second half of August. In the mid-season, leaf carbohydrates were slightly but not significantly increased in defruited trees, which could suggest that the observed photosynthetic response is a result of sink-limitation. There were only minor differences observed when leaf, fruit and bark carbohydrates were compared for fruiting and defruited trees, which indicates tha.t early defruiting in August did not significantly change carbohydrate translocation. Bark carbohydrates increased towards the end of the season, which underlines previous findings that the bark acts as a storage organ for spring growth in deciduous trees, such as apple. Die Dynamik der Kohlenhydrate Sorbitol, Saccharose, Glucose und Fructose in Frchten, Blttern und in der Rinde 12-jhriger Apfelbumen der Sorte 'Golden Delicious' wurde whrend einer Vegetationsperiode verfolgt und der Effekt des Entfernens der Frchte Mitte August bestimmt. Die photosynthetische Aktivitt der Bltter der entfruchteten Apfelbume nahm im Vergleich zu den fruchttragenden Bumen in der zweiten Augusthlfte deutlich ab. Die Konzentration der Kohlenhydrate in den Blttern nahm nach dem Entfernen der Frchte Mitte August wenig, aber nicht signifikant zu, was ein Zeichen fr die Abhngigkeit der gemessenen photosynthetischen Aktivitt von der Sink-Aktivitt sein knnte. Die Kohlenhydratkonzentrationen in den Blttern, Frchten und in der Rinde unterschieden sich kaum zwischen den fruchttragenden und entfruchteten Bumen. Damit wurde gezeigt, dass die Entfruchtung der Bume Mitte August die Kohlenhydratverlagerung kaum beeinflusste. Die Kohlenhydratkonzentrationen in der Rinde nahmen gegen Ende der Saison zu. Damit konnten einige vorherige Ergebnisse besttigt werden, dass die Rinde als Reserveorgan fr das Wachstum in Frhjahr dient.
24126803|The fruit of 'Opal' and 'Victoria' plums (Prunus domestica L.) were harvested at commercial harvest time at the Ullensvang Research Centre, western Norway. The fruit were sorted into three maturity groups (MG13) according to their visual surface colour: green, pink and bluish-red for 'Opal', and green, pink and violetred for 'Victoria', combined with their initial firmness, as evaluated by finger pressure. Their size, weight, soluble solids content, sensory firmness assessment, and colour parameters L* (lightness), a* (green/red) and b* (blue/yellow) were measured, and the Chroma and Hue angle indices and the colour index for red grapes (CIRG) were calculated. The fruit of increasing maturity were established across the maturity groups, as indicated by both increased soluble solids content and decreased the sensory firmness assessment from MG1 to MG3. The differences in the colour parameters and indices between the fruit in the three maturity groups were more or less similar for both cultivars. MG2 contained fruit that appeared to be a mixture of MG1 and MG3 fruits in terms of the colours, which resulted in large standard deviations for the colour parameters/indices in MG2. This appeared to cause the problem of sorting these plum cultivars by colour, whereby surface colour development during on-tree ripening along with the colour parameters/indices did not allow visual sorting of the fruit into three maturity groups. None of the colour parameters/indices correlated systematically and significantly with the quality parameters of weight, size, soluble solids content and the sensory firmness assessment within each of the maturity groups. However, high and systematic correlations were found between soluble solids content and the sensory firmness assessment on the one hand, and all of the colour parameters/indices on the other, when calculated over the total test material of each cultivar.
24126657|The availability of water in the substrate (compost) depends on the substrate's water potential, which is the sum of osmotic, and matric potential. In a commercial culture, the water potential of the substrate decreased from 1.4 MPa at casing to 2.6 MPa after flush 4, the osmotic potential from 1.4 to 2.4 MPa. Matric potentials were in the range of 0 to 0.3 MPa. The water potential of the substrate is determined to a large extend by the osmotic potential. Even in dry substrate, the matric potential is a minor fraction of the water potential. To increase the water potential, the osmotic potential has to be increased by lowering the concentration of solutes. The concentration of solutes, which are no nutrient for the mushroom, should be as low as possible. Water potentials of sporophore tissue were between 0.6 and 0.9 MPa, osmotic potentials between 1.0 and 1.35 MPa and pressure potentials (turgor) between 0.3 and 0.5 MPa. Based on water potentials of the substrate and of the sporophore tissue, water is most likely translocated from the substrate to the sporophores in a driven mass flow.
24126830|Plants of Origanum vulgare ssp. hirtum (Greek oregano) were cultivated in two years in a cool temperate climate and the aerial parts were harvested at up to five different development stages during the growing season (July to late August) in order to investigate how the content of volatile terpenes and polyphenols depends on the development stage of the plants. Volatile terpenes were identified and quantified in dichloromethane extracts by GC-MS and GC-FID, respectively. Polyphenols were quantified in aqueous methanol extracts by RP-HPLC-PDA and identified by LC-PDA-MS and NMR spectroscopy. Significant changes in the concentrations and composition of major volatile terpenes (carvacrol, -terpinene, p-cymene, myrcene, -pinene, -caryophyllene, thymol) were observed at the different development stages. The content of volatile terpenes varied from 3.7-4.9 % (year 1) and 2.6-4.6 % (year 2). The potential yields of total volatile terpenes varied from 74-165 kg ha-1 (year 1) and 31-79 kg ha-1 (year 2) being highest near full flowering stage (50-60% open flowers). Major polyphenols were eriodictyol 6,8-di-C-glucoside, apigenin 6,8-di-C-glucoside, luteolin 7-O-glucuronide, epi-lithospermic acid B, lithospermic acid B and rosmarinic acid. The content of flavonoids varied from 4.8-7.7 mg g-1 dry matter (DM) (year 1) and 8.912.4 mg g-1 DM (year 2), and phenolic acids from 1.410.1 mg g-1 DM (year 1) and 23.4-51.5 mg g-1 DM (year 2). The highest content of flavonoids in aerial parts was obtained near full flowering stage and for phenolic acids earlier at around 10-20 % open flowers. The conclusion of this study is that also in a cool temperate climate the development stage has a significant impact on the content and composition of both volatile terpenes and polyphenols in O. vulgare ssp. hirtum, and that an optimal harvest time of aerial parts of this plant depends on the secondary metabolites of interest.
24126122|From two dahlia genotypes seed was harvested from open pollinated flowers and from flowers covered with polyethylene bags. Although protected from pollinating insects the latter produced viable seed. Analyses with RAPD markers could demonstrate that all of the plants from seed obtained under protection were most probably the result of self-pollination whereas 94.0 % and 87.5 % of the open pollinated seed resulted from out crossing. These results indicate that: 1. despite an old debate about the self-fertility of dahlias some genotypes can be easily self pollinated and therefore do not possess a self incompatibility system 2. the out crossing rate of open pollinated progeny approaches or exceeds 90 %. Further studies on the utilisation of molecular markers using simulation studies indicated that the number of RAPD markers utilised in the present study is sufficient to identify most of the out crossed progeny. The consequences of these findings are discussed in respect to elaborate breeding strategies for garden dahlias. Nachkommenschaften zweier Gartendahlien wurden jeweils sowohl durch offene Abblte in Mischbestnden als auch durch Abblte unter Polyethylenbeuteln erhalten. Beide Behandlungen fhrten fr die untersuchten Genotypen zu vitalen Nachkommenschaften, die im Anschluss mit RAPD Markern im Vergleich zu den Elterngenotypen untersucht wurden. Dabei zeigte sich, dass: 1. alle Nachkommen aus dem Selbstbestubungsversuch unter Polyethylenbeuteln aus Selbstbefruchtung resultieren, einige Dahlien-Genotypen also kein Selbstinkompatibilittssystem besitzen und 2. die berwiegende Zahl der Nachkommen aus freier Abblte aus Fremdbefruchtung resultieren und die Auskreuzungsrate unter diesen Bedingungen 90 % bersteigen kann.
24126912|Turf grasses are a potential groundcover for green roof systems. The current study investigates the evapotranspiration rates and drought tolerance of Festuca arundinacea 'Plantation' when growing on extensive green roof systems. The study was conducted in 2011 and replicated on 2012. It was comprised of outdoor lysimeters that were equipped with all green roof drainage layers and had different depths in order to host either 7.5 or 15.0 cm of substrate. Treatments included two substrate depths (7.5 cm or 15 cm) and two irrigation regimes, 85 % of the evapotranspiration rate (ET) and 65 % ET. Measurements included substrate moisture content, Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI), leaf stomatal resistance (LSR), and the evapotranspirational rate based on lysimeter weighing. It was found that the higher irrigation regime of 85 % ET increased NDVI, compared to 65 % ET. Similarly, increasing substrate depth from 7.5 to 15.0 cm increased NDVI. In contrast LSR was affected by irrigation regime only on the first study year but it was not affected from substrate depth. Evapotranspiration increased significantly at the higher irrigation regime compared to the lower one, while there were no differences between the two substrate depths. In conclusion both irrigation regime and substrate depth seem to be important for F. arundinacea growth indices during a water deficit period. However, only irrigation regime increased evapotranspiration rate while substrate depth did not.
24126887|Nutrient loading is a fertilization concept with the aim to increase the N-, P- and K-concentration in the plant without changing its size. It can be carried out by a conventional or by an exponential method, which differ in the delivery schedule of nutrients. Nutrient loaded plants are assumed to perform better after outplanting compared to non-loaded ones because the former are capable of remobilizing sufficient nutrient reserves. An experiment was set up with a landscape plant, Rosa majalis, to investigate the effect of nutrient loading on growth, N-, P- and K-concentration at the end of the nursery period and on performance one year after outplanting. For conventional loading a slow-release fertilizer was added to the growing medium at potting; exponential loading was carried out with a liquid fertilizer given in exponentially increasing concentration during the vegetation period. In both methods a multinutrient (15 % N, 9 % P2O5,12 % K2O, 2 % MgO and micronutrients) fertilizer was used. Concerning N, 0.8 g N l-1 substrate was added in the non-loading treatment and 2.4 g N l-1 in the loading treatments, other nutrients were given according to the composition of the fertilizer. Nutrient loading was achieved for N and P, not for K. Conventionally loaded plants suffered from salt stress due to a high release rate of nutrients from the slow-release fertilizer during a hot period. Plants were outplanted in autumn. One year after outplanting there were no differences in growth between the previously differendy fertilized plants.
24126362|A series of 5 experiments was conducted to establish whether the quality of rooted cuttings has any effect on the appearance of cut chrysanthemums (Chrysanthemum indicum hybrids). Three different chrysanthemum cultivars were examined in a greenhouse (in summer and winter), where the N content of the cuttings (low, moderate and high), the cutting size (small and large) and the root number (full and half) were varied. In a homogeneous group of rooted cuttings, both the N content of the cuttings and the root number were of minor importance, provided that the nutrient and water conditions were not restrictive. However, if rooted cuttings with full and half root numbers were planted side by side in a common bed, the number of flowers and stem weights were lower for the cuttings with the half root count (and accordingly higher for the cuttings with the full root count) than in the corresponding homogeneous group. Cutting size had a major influence on the quality of the cut stems especially in mixed planting. Large cuttings planted in the homogeneous bed had more 5.4 flowers and 25.4 g higher stem weight as compared to small cuttings. These differences were even greater in mixed planting resulting in more than 11.6 flowers and higher stem weight of 31.5 g across all cultivars. Differences in the quality characteristics of the rooted cuttings were not reduced with time in the mixed bed. Therefore, it was concluded that competition in a mixed bed serves to heighten and aggravate the quality differences of rooted cuttings.
24126442|Lobelia erinus hybrids are important bedding plants worldwide. Despite their significance, information about their breeding history is scarce. An interspecific background can be assumed, however, only a few reports about interspecific hybridisation of Lobelia erinus hybrids are available. So far, Lobelia plants up to the hexaploid level have been known. This work reports for the first time on an octoploid Lobelia (2n=8x=56) which was obtained by mutagenesis of a diploid Lobelia speciosa. Furthermore, this paper demonstrates that cross-combination of the octoploid mutant with tetraploid Lobelia erinus hybrids results in hexaploid plants.
24126222|Several investigations show that flowers are a preferable food source for the western flower thrips, Frankliniella occidentalis (Pergande) (Thysanoptera: Thripidae). A study was initiated to see how population growth of a F. occidentalis population on greenhouse grown chrysanthemum was affected by flower growth and development. The hypothesis was that the relative reproduction rate of thrips was not constant over time but increased when flowers were available. Plants of the chrysanthemum pot plant cultivar 'Lompoc' were infested with female western flower thrips and grown at three different temperatures. The results showed that thrips growth and development was stimulated by an increased temperature, and that the increase was not correlated with the effect of temperature on chrysanthemum flower development. Since there was no significant difference between thrips grown on plants with or without flowers, the original hypothesis could not be supported. The results indicated further that the relative reproduction rate increased over time. A growth equation with an exponentially increasing relative reproduction rate fitted the data better (R2-values from 0.529 to 0.826) than a traditional exponential equation (R2-values from 0.434 to 0.728). It was proposed that intrinsic factors within the population, such as population density, the probability of finding a mating partner, and the switching from parthenogenesis to sexual reproduction, were the cause for the increasing relative reproduction rate during early population growth.
24126671|Results of a 2-year structural analysis of indeterminate tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.) cultivated during different seasons under protected cultivation (ventilated greenhouses with PE-film roofs and PE-net walls) in the humid tropics of Central Thailand are presented. Under the prevailing high-radiation conditions ( 35.9 MJ m-2 outside and 23.7 MJ m-2 inside of the greenhouse), total dry-mass production was 2.6 g MJ-1 and similar to regions at greater latitude with much lower global radiation. Plant density (2.1 plants m-2 in single rows vs. 4.2 plants m-2 in double rows) had no meaningful effect on biomass production and partitioning on a per-plant basis as well as on internode length and specific leaf area (SLA) indicating that availability of light had only limited effect on growth in closer stands. Although crop growth rate (CGR) was comparable to other studies (3-14 g dry mass m-2 day-1), biomass partitioning into individual plant organs was not. The most striking difference to greenhouse tomato production at greater latitude was the low percentage (16-19 %) of total biomass distributed to fruits. Crop responses to lack of sink strength resulting from poor fruit set were deformed leaves and accelerated growth of auxiliary shoots. When canopy density was increased by cultivating tomato with double stems, total fruit biomass per plant was significantly improved by ca. 13 %. Within these plants, ca. 100 % more biomass was partitioned into fruits of the primary stem than the secondary stem. Since leaf biomass and area did not vary significantly between individual stems, there was indication that secondary stems improved availability of assimilates which promoted biomass partitioning into fruits on primary stems. Besides marginally decreasing greenhouse air temperature through greater transpiration, high plant and stem density maximize assimilation and are, therefore, one measure to improve tomato fruit biomass under hot tropical conditions. The generally low amount of fruit biomass was also due to lack of pollination and, therefore, development of parthenocarpic fruits under high temperatures particularly during night. A practice to improve the latter includes application of growth regulators to improve enlargement of parthenocarpic fruits.
24126492|The adaptation to site pedological and geological conditions belongs to the most important requirements that concern grapevine rootstocks. The tolerance to the lime-induced chlorosis represents a very important property of rootstock plants. This paper presents the evaluation of tolerance of 20 new rootstock hybrids and 4 rootstock varieties to this type of chlorosis. The evaluation was performed within the framework of a pot experiment in 2007. In hybrids and rootstock varieties the following parameters were studied: length of annual shoots, chlorophyll content index (CCI) and leaf chlorosis score. The evaluated rootstock hybrids were combinations of North American Vitis spp. (V. berlandieri, V. riparia, V. rupestris, and V. cinerea) and the East Asian species Vitis amurensis. A very high and/or high tolerance to lime-induced chlorosis was demonstrated in hybrids 16-1-6; 17-1-6; 17-1-9; 17-2-10; 17-3-6; 17-6-2; 17-8-2; 9-20-1 and 17-12-1. Groups D and F, the most tolerant hybrids originated from combinations with V. berlandieri, V. riparia and V. cinerea. The evaluation demonstrated that, as compared with varieties originating from the crossing V. berlandieri x V. riparia, the rootstocks originating from crossings with V. cinerea were less tolerant. Hybrids originating from V. rupestris showed also only a medium tolerance to lime. From the methodological viewpoint of the evaluation of chlorosis tolerance the correlation existing between the chlorophyll content in leaves and the chlorosis evaluation performed on the base of leaf chlorosis score" is very important (r = -0.84). This means that chlorophyll content index (CCI) and leaf chlorosis score can be used when evaluating the tolerance of rootstocks to chlorosis.
24127049|The characteristics of peat can be explained by its degree of decomposition (H), dry bulk density (DBD), air (AV) and water (WV) volumes, total pore space (PS), ash and organic carbon contents, C/N ratio, elemental as well as the botanical composition. This study includes results of 20 horticultural peats obtained from different areas of Estonia, Finland, Germany, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania and Sweden. The tested peats had a decomposition degree of H3 to H7 and Sphagnum (peat moss) was identified as the major peat forming plant genus (3590 %) followed by Carex (550 %) and mixture of Eriophorum and woody plant remains (520 %). The mean DBD and PS varied widely from 40 to 141 g L-1 and 87.4 to 96.6 % v/v, respectively. Although the tested peats had substantial amounts of WV (43.3 to 82.1 % v/v), their mean water buffering capacities were low (<8 % of WV) to suggest that these peats cannot deliver enough water to the cultivated plant once the easily available water (water held between -1 and -5 kPa; 17.2 to 42.3 % v/v) is gone. Mineral contents (NH4-N, NO3-N, P, Mg, K, Ca, Mn and Fe) in most peats were considerably low but the computed resource availability indices (C/N, C/P, N/P and N/K) were quite high. The variability of nearly 30 parameters, describing the properties of peat, was examined using a Principal Component Analysis and factors relevant to the first two principal components are discussed in details.
24126490|Tomato (Solanum lycopersicum L.) landraces contain much more genetic diversity, compared to the modern hybrid cultivars grown today. Landraces also frequently have distinctive organoleptic values and can serve as value-added products for farmers and as important genetic resources for breeders. However, a large amount of heterogeneity in a landrace will probably make it unattractive to the growers who are interested in cultivating it. Efficient utilization of landrace populations requires their proper characterization and evaluation. In the present study, a two-year experiment was conducted to study heterogeneity within and among 14 Greek tomato landrace populations for various horticultural traits in a low-input environment. The results indicated that significant heterogeneity occurred within and among the tomato landrace populations for the morphological (fruit length, fruit width, core size, locule number, fruit length x fruit width and fruit width/fruit length) and yield (flower number per truss, fruit number per truss, and fruit yield of the first three trusses) characters evaluated; whereas, the F1 hybrid 'Clodin' provided the most consistent results from plant to plant. Although the heterogeneity of horticultural traits detected within the tomato landraces reduces the likelihood of grower acceptance, those that provided the highest yields ('GR05/01', 'GR14/99', 'GR25/99', 'GR60/99', and 'GR193/99') may provide new opportunities for vegetable growers who want to broaden their markets, due to the increased popularity of heirlooms and landraces in certain markets.
24126189|A simple and reliable method for the identification of residues of sulfonylurea herbicides in rotational farming systems has been developed using metsulfuron-methyl as a test substance. Metsulfuron-methyl such as other sulfonylurea herbicides impairs the synthesis of branched-chain amino acids and, in consequence, protein synthesis. Thus, nitrogen consumption is reduced, leading to an accumulation of amino acids and a reduction of nitrogen uptake. The biological-chemical test system is based on the determination of aspartic acid, asparagine, glutamine, and NH4+ by ion chromatography and is suitable for monitoring changes of nitrogen metabolism in soybean seedlings. Of the measured free amino acids, glutamine and aspartic acid represent key substances that reflect changes in nitrogen uptake, assimilation, transport, and storage. Their concentrations increased due to metsulfuron-methyl 215 times in roots, stems, and leaves. The asparagine content is a measure of the nitrogen status of soybean. However, the sensitivity of asparagine content to metsulfuron-methyl depended on the nutritious status of the plant. In case the asparagine level was already high, the herbicide did not induce a significant increase in asparagine. The NH4+ concentration may also add valuable information in case NH4+ is present in the root medium. With respect to the test system, the lower stem section of soybean seedlings represents the optimal plant section for free amino acid analyses, because samples can reproducibly be taken, the concentration of the cell sap is, compared to roots, less influenced by the water status, and this section is, compared to leaves, rather sensitive to sulfonylurea herbicides in the root medium. A reduction of leaf transpiration rate is a further effect of metsulfuron-methyl, so that its measurement may represent a valuable additional parameter to the described biological-chemical test system. Eine einfache und verlssliche Methode fr die Rckstandsanalyse von Sulfonylurea-Herbiziden im Fruchtfolgeanbau wurde entwickelt und am Beispiel von Metsulfuron-methyl getestet. Metsulfuron-methyl beeintrchtigt wie andere Sulfonylurea-Herbizide die Synthese von verzweigten Aminosuren und, als Konsequenz, die Proteinsynthese. In Folge dessen wird der Stickstoffverbrauch reduziert, was zu einer Akkumulation von Aminosuren und zu einer Reduktion der Stickstoffaufnahme fhrt. Das biologisch-chemische Testsystem basiert auf der Bestimmung von Asparginsure, Asparagin, Glutamin und NH4+ mittels Ionenchromatographie und ermglicht, Vernderungen im Stickstoffmetabolismus von Soja zu erfassen. Von den gemessenen freien Aminosuren stellen Glutamin und Asparaginsure Schlsselsubstanzen dar, die Vernderungen in der Aufnahme, der Assimilation, dem Transport und der Speicherung von Stickstoff anzeigen. Ihre Konzentrationen in Wurzeln, Stngeln und Blttern steigen durch Metsulfuron-methyl um das 215-fache an. Der Asparagingehalt ist ein Ma fr den Stickstoffstatus von Soja. Die Empfindlichkeit der Asparaginkonzentration gegenber Metsulfuron-methyl hngt jedoch vom Ernhrungszustand der Pflanze ab. Im Falle eines schon erhhten Asparaginniveaus verursachte das Herbizid keine signifikante Steigerung des Asparagingehaltes. Die NH4+-Konzentration kann ebenfalls wertvolle Hinweise geben, wenn NH4+ im Wurzelraum vorhanden ist. Im Bezug auf das Testsystem stellt der untere Stngelbereich von Soja das optimale Pflanzenteil fr die Analyse von freien Aminosuren dar, weil Proben reproduzierbar gezogen werden knnen, die Konzentration des Zellsaftes im Vergleich zur Wurzel in einem geringeren Ma durch den Wasserstatus beeinflusst wird, und weil der untere Stngelbereich im Vergleich zu Blttern sehr empfindlich auf Sulfonylurea-Herbizide im Wurzelraum reagiert. Eine Abnahme der Blatttranspirationsrate ist ein weiterer Effekt von Metsulfuron-methyl, so dass deren Messung einen wertvollen zustzlichen Parameter fr das beschriebene biologisch-chemische Testsystem darstellt.
24126268|Seed quality of winter squash (Cucurbita maxima L.) seeds was studied during storage in the fruit up to 150 days after harvest of the fruit. Seeds were extracted from the fruits 12, 35, 63, 92, 150 days after harvest in 1999, and 30, 60, 90, 120, 150 days after harvest in 2000. Total seed germination following drying changed between 87 and 97 % in 1999, between 98 and 100 % in 2000. However, normal germination percentages and seed vigour assessed by cold test, accelerated ageing and emergence tests gradually increased until 60 days but significantly declined subsequently. Thus, maximum seed quality was obtained from seeds of 60 days in winter squash after harvest. Gegenstand der Untersuchungen ist die Qualitt von Krbissaatgut (Cucurbita maxima L), das bis zu 150 Tage nach der Ernte in den Frchten belassen wurde. 1999 wurden die Samen 12, 35, 63, 92 und 150 und im Jahr 2000 30, 60, 90, 120 und 150 Tage nach dem Fruchterntetermin entnommen. Die Keimrate im Anschluss an eine Trocknung der Samen betrug 1999 zwischen 87 und 97 % und 2000 zwischen 98 und 100 %. Die Rate normal gekeimter Smlinge und die Keimenergie, die nach einer Kltebehandlung ermittelt wurden, stiegen bis 60 Tage nach der Fruchternte an und fielen im weiteren Verlauf deutlich ab. Die beste Saatgutqualitt wurde deshalb 60 Tage nach Ernte der Krbisse erzielt.
24126678|Maize transposable elements, Activator (Ac) and Dissociation (Ds) have been transformed into several heterologous plant species and they have been successfully used to tag and clone genes in Arabidopsis, flax, petunia, tobacco, and tomato. To investigate the possibility of transposon tagging for subsequent cloning of carrot genes, carrot calli were transformed with a modified maize transposable element Activator-transposase (Ac-TPase) and Ds using an Agrobacterium-mediated transformation method. Ds excision was observed in the tissue culture-regenerated plants carrying both Ac-TPase and Ds. Analysis of Ds footprints in six plants demonstrated the occurrence of small deletions at the donor site. Reinsertion of Ds into new chromosomal sites was detected in the transgenic plants analysed and the analysis of sequences flanking Ds at the insertion sites using TAIL-PCR demonstrated that 37.5 % of Ds insertions were into gene regions in the carrot genome. Although previous studies suggested that the autonomous Ac element may not be a suitable transposon for insertional mutagenesis in carrot, our results deduced that the Ac/Ds based two-element transposon tagging system can be another tool to mutagenise the carrot genome for the purpose of cloning carrot genes.
24127091|Different levels of soil water capacity (SWC 30-50-70 %) resulted in significant changes in physiological parameters of Ocimum basilicum L. 'Genovese' in a pot experiment. Compared to the control plants (water supply to 70 % SWC) the driest condition (30 % SWC) caused a decrease of the relative water content (RWC) in the plants by 20 %. Additionally, their water potential was reduced to 45 % of the control plants. The same treatment increased the concentration of malondialdehyde (MDA) indicating the level of oxidative stress, by 52 % compared to the leaves of the control plants. However, under a moderate water deficit (50 % SWC), the plants exhibited a less severe decrease in RWC and water potential, as well as less oxidative stress. Although the reduction of the SWC to 50 % did not significantly affect the dry shoot mass, a more severe water stress (30 % SWC) reduced it by 34 %, compared to the control plants. The essential oil concentration per plant dry mass showed only a slight increase in consequence of drought stress (significant at 90 % confidence level). The essential oil production calculated to a single individual is determined basically by the changes in the biomass, thus, the lowest results were found in the driest soil. Water supply modified the quantitative composition of the o: the proportion of linalool decreased from 59.68 to 44.39 %. The samples of the stressed plants contained some minor components, (-myrcene, 2-octanone) not present in the control samples.
24126228|Variability in kiwifruit income generation was studied per individual vine within an orchard block of 'Hayward' kiwifruit over three consecutive growing seasons (2003-2005). The objective of this study was to assess the applicability of Lorenz curves and Gini coefficients (G) to characterise the magnitude of the between-vine variation in income, and determine whether spatial variability of vine income in a small orchard block (0.17 ha) was stable over time and whether site-specific management could be applied to the orchard area. Lorenz curves illustrated that vine income in the 2003 season was skewed towards lower incomes with 50 % of the orchard area's income coming from 35 % of the vines when frost differentially affected vines, a result reflected in the high G of 0.208. In subsequent seasons vine income was more homogeneous, indicated by lower G values (0.067 and 0.068). Income was highest in homogeneous vine populations. A strong spatial pattern to between-vine income variation was identified in season 2003; in the subsequent seasons of 2004 and 2005 vine income was increasingly randomly distributed within the test site. We conclude that there was little stability in the spatial structure of between-vine variation in income. Within the orchard area, vine populations were identified that consistently generated higher or lower incomes across seasons. However, the lack of aggregation and the low temporal stability of these vine populations made the adoption of zonal management strategies unfeasible for this site, and has implications about the practicality of zonal management in larger kiwifruit production blocks.
24126915|Turf managers and home lawn owners are often discouraged from using warm-season turf species in the transitional zones of Europe because they undergo dormancy during winter and lose colour up to five months. These issues may be addressed by mixing cool-season species together with warm-season turfgrasses. However, there is a lack of information on performances and dynamics of species succession in such turf grass mixtures. Therefore, a two-year study was carried out at Padova University (Northeastern Italy) to test the effects of overseeding red fescue in bermudagrass and zoysiagrass cultivars on turf quality and species succession in the mixtures. In September 2011, red fescue 'Corail' (FRR) was overseeded at a 50 g m-2 rate on mature turfgrass plots of eight Cynodon dactylon (CD) cultivars and Zoysia japonica 'Companion' (ZJ). Monostands of CD 'Princess-77' and FRR were established for comparison purposes. Turf quality was estimated visually every other week and the frequencies of species in the mixtures were determined every month using a point-intercept method, by recording species in 10-cm segments of four lines of 1 m each. With the exception of summer, CD 'Princess-77' monostand had the lowest visual turf quality in comparison to all the mixtures tested. Significant differences were also observed among mixtures, with zoysiagrass-red fescue polystand showing the most important decline in turf quality from one year to the next. The two best performing mixtures (CD 'Contessa' + FRR and CD Yukon' + FRR) were characterized by high frequency of CD (i.e., average  82 %) and intermediate frequency of FRR (i.e., average = 8288 %). The results of this study suggest that the choice of species and cultivar plays a key role for establishing functional mixtures of warm-season grasses with red fescue in a transitional zone environment.
24126883|High light intensities and high temperatures occurring during the development of grape berries are known to have persistent effects on their growth and ripening processes and also induce sunburn and, therefore, reduce berry quality. Vitis vinifera cv. 'Semillon' grapevines were grown in controlled environments, exposed at three stages of berry development to short-term temperature and light treatments and, at the time of harvest, assessed for impacts on berry ripening and susceptibility to sunburn. Despite treatments being imposed during development, there were highly significant interactions between temperature and light intensity and the growth stage on berry size and sugar content when measured at harvest. Berries treated to the conditions at the early stage of development (pea size) were largely unaffected and there was no carryover at harvest. By contrast, when treated at the mid (veraison) and late stages, the treatment effects were very persistent especially the highest temperature and light intensity, which caused continued marked reductions in berry size and sugar content compared to when the treatments were applied. Although rates of ripening for berries treated early in development in all conditions actually increased at harvest whereas mostly the ripening rates declined for those berries treated at 30 and 38 C and at the mid and late stages. There were similar interactive effects of temperature and light intensity on the susceptibility of the berries to sunburn, with nearly 100 % of berries affected when exposed to the highest temperature and the highest light intensity of 660 mol m-2 s-1. Again, stage of development had a marked influence with no sunburn occurring with vines treated early and most susceptible when treated late in development. These results suggest growers need to protect bunches in the late stages of development from exposure to high light intensities by maintaining an adequate canopy cover over bunches, especially when temperatures approach heat conditions.
24126423|Biotechnology may represent alternative ways to genetic improvement of sweet cherry exploiting somaclonal variation and genetic transformation. In this paper a method to induce efficient shoot regeneration from somatic expiants of 'Burlat C1' is reported: 52.0 % caulogenesis was obtained from basal callus formed after culturing shoot apical portions in the dark. Considering the significant onset of adventitious shoots showing variegated leaves their in vitro performances have been evaluated as compared to green (normal) shoots. The influence of cefotaxime, cefotaxime plus vancomycin and timentin was assessed both for decontamination and regeneration efficiency prior transforming morphogenic masses with A. tumefaciens (C58C1 pDN3514), carrying the rolABC genes from A. rhizogenes, p35GUS-intron visible marker and nptII antibiotic resistance gene. GUS test indicated the presence of transient expression in shoot primordia nevertheless it was not possible to recover transgenic shoots probably due to the formation of chimeric meristems.
24126325|Jojoba (Simmondsia chinensis L.) explants were cultured in vitro under four levels of sodium chloride salinity (0, 0.33, 0.66 and 0.99% w/v) during the proliferation stage. Explant growth was seriously affected by salinity treatments. The mean shoot number and the total mean shoot length per explant were significantly reduced under high salt concentration. Fresh and dry weight of explant were increased till the medium level of salinity and decreased at the high one. Proline and phenolic compound contents of explants were determined in relation to salinity treatments. At the high salt level, proline content was increased while the total phenol and o-diphenol content was higher in explants deriving from control treatment. Ferulic acid and 4-coumaric acid contents decreased at the high salt levels. There were no significant differences between treatments, during most of the time at the proliferation stage, concerning vanillic acid and protocatechuic acid content. Jojoba- (Simmondsia chinensis L.) Explantate wurden whrend der in vitro Proliferationsphase bei vier verschiedenen Natriumchlorid-Konzentrationen (0, 0.33, 0.66 and 0.99% w/v) kultiviert. Das Explantatwachstum wurde durch den Salzgehalt deutlich beeinflut. Die durchschnittliche Sprosszahl und die durchschnittliche Sprossgesamtlnge pro Explantat war bei dem hohen Salzgehalt statistisch nachweisbar reduziert. Das Frisch- und Trockengewicht der Explante nahm mit steigendem Salzgehalt bis zur mittleren Stufe zu und mit weiterer Zunahme (hoher Salzgehalt) wieder ab. Auch der Gehalt an Prolin und phenolischen Verbindungen in den Explanten war durch den Salzgehalt bestimmt. Beim hohen Salzgehalt war der Prolingehalt erhht, whrend der Gesamtphenol- und der o-Diphenol-Gehalt in der Kontrollbehandlung am hchsten war. Der Gehalt an Ferula- und 4-Cumarsure nahm bei der hohen Salzkonzentration ab. Hinsichtlich Vanillin- und Protokatechinsure war whrend der Proliferationsphase zumeist kein signifikanter Unterschied zwischen den Behandlungen nachweisbar.
24126190|In this research, a model for predicting the leaf area was developed for peach by using 'Earlyred', 'Dixired', 'Cardinal', 'Redhaven', 'Glohaven' and 'Cresthaven' cvs. by measuring lamina width, length and leaf area without destroying in 2002. Multiple regression analysis for the cultivars was separately performed. The proposed leaf area (LA) prediction model is: LA=0.5+0.23*L/W+0.67*L*W, R2=0.9975, LA is leaf area, W is leaf width, L is leaf length. The model was validated by measuring leaf samples of different peach trees of the six cultivars in 2003. In dieser Untersuchung wurde ein Modell zur Voraussage der Blattflche von Pfirsich entwickelt, in dem im Jahre 2002 bei den Sorten 'Earlyred', 'Dixired', 'Cardinal', 'Redhaven', 'Glohaven' und 'Cresthaven' die Breite, Lnge und Flche von Blttern gemessen wurde, ohne diese zu zerstren. Die mehrfaktorielle Regressionsanalyse wurde fr jede Sorte separat durchgefhrt. Das Modell fr die Voraussage der Blattflche lautet: LA=0.5+0.23*L/W+0.67*L*W, R2=0.9975, wobei LA fr die Blattflche, W fr die Breite und L fr die Lnge des Blattes steht. Die Gltigkeit des Modells wurde 2003 durch Messen von Blattproben unterschiedlicher Pfirsichbume der selben sechs Sorten berprft.
24126866|The effect of berry shrivel, a physiological disorder in grapevine, on the concentration of phenolic compounds in the cultivais 'Zweigelt', 'Pinot Gris' and 'Pinot Blanc' berries was studied. Specific phenolic compounds were analysed by HPLC and compared to concentrations in healthy berries of the same varieties and between the varieties. As resveratrol is often used as a marker for infection or stress induced defence mechanisms in grapevine, it was postulated that resveratrol concentration in the grape berries is positively correlated with berry shrivel. Other phenolic substances such as catechin, epicatecin and viniferin were also analysed to evaluate their potential effect on berry shrivel. Healthy berries from the variety 'Zweigelt' contained significantly more trans-resveratrol, trans-resveratrol-glucoside and -viniferin, whereas shriveled berries contained significantly higher concentrations of catechin and epicatechin. The phenolic concentrations were not significantly different between healthy and affected 'Pinot Gris' and 'Pinot Blanc' grape berries, respectively, except for 'Pinot Gris' with significantly higher catechin concentrations in healthy berries compared to shriveled berries. Cis-resveratrol could not be detected in any of the samples and cis-resveratrol-glucoside could not be definitely identified.
24126730|A sample of about 169 tomato landraces of varying fruit type and of diverse provenance was tested for reaction to infection with Verticillium dahliae, the causative pathogen of Verticillium wilt. Some individuals of the 'Sorrentino' landrace were as resistant as 'Florida Ve', whereas certain populations of the 'Ligure', rather known as 'Cuor di bue di Albenga', type included the extremes of susceptibility and resistance. Resistant selections from each landrace were allowed to self fertilize to generate breeding lines. A PCR analysis, based on a CAPS marker targeted to the Ve2 allele, was conducted on 'Sorrentino', 'Locale di Albenga 2', 'Locale di Albenga 3', 'Locale di Carmagnola', 'Locale di Cuneo', and 'Eraldo4', and the resulting genotype was fully consistent with reaction to infection with V. dahliae strain V7. Variation in the level of resistance among Ve2 carriers suggested that other genes are also involved in modulating the response to infection. Markers for resistant alleles at Ve should prove useful in marker assisted breeding for wilt resistance in tomato. Homozygous resistant selections were made from landrace materials, which retained the landrace fruit type.
24126181|The effect of 0.0 (control), 0.1, 0.2, 0.4, and 0.6 % of the hydrophilic polymer 'Stockosorb K-400 (TM)' hydrogel on survival and growth of buttonwood (Conocarpus erectus L.) seedlings grown in sandy soil under drought stress was investigated. Soil water retention increased with increasing hydrogel concentrations. The highest concentration of the polymer prolonged the time of water loss from the soil by about 66 % more than the control soil. During drought stress, the seedlings grown in soil with 0.6 % hydrogel survived for longer time than those grown in the control soil. Hydrogel-amended soil increased significantly the growth of shoots and roots as compared with untreated soil. Plant water potential increased significantly with hydrogel application, thus it may aid in the establishment and growth of Conocarpus seedlings under water stress conditions. Effects of 0.4 and 0.6 % of hydrogel on the measured parameters were nearly similar. The study indicates that an amendment of soil with 0.4 to 0.6 % of the hydrophilic polymer 'Stockosorb K-400' can be used in arid and semi-arid areas to provide a better enviroment for Conocarpus erectus seedlings to grow. Es wurde die Wirkung von 0.0 (Kontrolle), 0.1, 0.2, 0.4 und 0.6 % des hydrophilen Polymers 'Stockosorb K-400 (TM)'-Hydrogel auf das berleben und das Wachstum von Conocarpus erectus L.-Smlingen, die auf sandigem Boden unter Trockenstress kultiviert wurden, untersucht. Die Speicherung von Bodenwasser steigerte sich mit steigender Hydrogel-Konzentration. Die hchste Konzentration des Polymers verlngerte die Dauer bis zum Wasserverlustes im Vergleich zur Kontrolle um ber 66 %. Unter Trockenstress-Bedingungen berlebten die Smlinge mit 0.6 % Hydrogel im Substrat deutlich lnger als die Kontrollpflanzen. Substrat mit Hydrogel-Zusatz verbesserte das Wachstum von Trieben und Wurzeln im Vergleich zu Substrat ohne Zusatz significant. Das Pflanzenwasserpotenzial erhhte sich bei Hydrogel-Zugabe signifikant, so dass es bei der Etablierung und der Kultur von Conocarpus-Smlingen unter Trockenstress-Bedingungen hilfreich sein kann. Die Wirkung von 0.4 und 0.6 % Hydrogel auf die untersuchten Parameter war fast identisch. Die Untersuchung zeigt, dass die Zugabe von 0.4 bis 0.6 % des hydrophilen Polymers 'Stockosorb K-400' genutzt werden kann, um in ariden und semi-ariden Gebieten fr Conocarpus erectus-Smlinge bessere Wachstumsbedingungen zu schaffen.
24127678|The effect of three ground covers [alfafa (Medicago sativa), Dutch white clover (Trifolium repens) and perennial rye (Lolium perenne) on soil fertility, tree morphology, and tree nutrient status in a Fraser fir-cover crop intercropping system was investigated to assess the impacts of cover crop species and management practice on the sustainability of the cropping system. Ground cover were mowed every 21 days and returned to the ground as green mulch. Parameters monitored included soil moisture, soil organic carbon and nitrogen, soil mineral nitrogen, cover crop biomass and nutrient content, and tree morphological and nutrient characteristics. Results obtained indicated that the species selection affected the amount of green manure produced and its total nitrogen and phosphorus content. Soil organic carbon and nitrogen were stable in the upper soil profile due to the relatively small quantity added with the cropping system compared to the total stock of soil C and N. Mineral nitrogen decreased over the season due to the synchrony of cover crop decomposition, mineralization and nutrient uptake by trees in the upper profile. Species selection and management practices did not affect tree relative height growth and 100-needles weight, but management practices affected relative diameter growth, indicating competition for soil moisture. Tree foliar nutrient concentrations were not significantly affected by cover species, but were much lower in some of the management practices, suggesting competition for nutrients. We conclude that careful management should be used to capitalize on cover crop benefits and avoid competition for soil nutrients and moisture.
24126235|Vermicompost is a suitable alternative for peat and other organic substrates as potting media. To examine the quality of this material with respect to plant growth requirements, vermicomposts were produced from different organic wastes including yard leaf (YL), sewage sludge + woodchips (SW), municipal wastes (MW), saw dust (SD), wheat straw + urea (SU), sugar cane filter cake (FC) and dairy cattle manure (CM). The chemical characteristics of the vermicomposts and the organic wastes were determined. The carbon to nitrogen ratio (C:N) and the electrical conductivity of wastes decreased during vermicomposting. For the materials with initial low C:N ratio (SW and MW), the N content decreased. Total concentrations of other nutrients in the vermicomposts were much higher than that of the original solid wastes. Some physical characteristics of potting mixes produced from mixing of 0,15, 30, and 45 % (w/w) of the vermicomposts, soil, and sand were determined. Mixing of vermicomposts to potting media decreased the bulk density and particle density but increased the water holding capacity. In a greenhouse trial, the growth of tomato seedlings on the potting mixes was investigated by determination of the shoot dry matter yield, the nutrient uptake, and nutrient content of leaves at flowering stage. Tomato growth in pots containing SW, MW, and SU was higher than for other mixtures. Except N, the nutrient concentrations of the leaf samples were in the sufficiency range. Gegenber Torf und anderen organischen Substraten stellt Wurmkompost sicherlich eine geeignete Alternative als Pflanzerde dar. Um die Qualitt dieses Materials hinsichtlich der Erfordernisse fr das Pflanzenwachstum zu untersuchen, wurden Wurmkomposte aus verschiedenen organischen Abfllen wie Blattstreu (YL), Klrschlamm + Holzschnipsel (SW), Hausmll (MW), Sgemehl (SD), Weizenstroh + Harnstoff (SU), Zuckerrohrfilterkuchen (FC) und Kuhmist (CM) hergestellt. Es wurden die chemischen Eigenschaften dieser Wurmkomposte und der organischen Abflle bestimmt. Das Kohlenstoff-Stickstoffverhltnis (C:N) und die elektrische Leitfhigkeit des organischen Abfalls verringerte sich whrend der Wurmkompostierung. Fr die Materialen mit anfnglich niedrigem C:N (SW und MW) nahm der N-Gehalt ab. Die Gesamtkonzentrationen der anderen Nhrstoffe in den Wurmkomposten waren viel hher als in den ursprnglichen organischen Abfllen. Von Pflanzerdemischungen aus Sand mit 0,15, 30 und 45 % (w/w) Wurmkompostanteil wurden einige physikalische Parameter bestimmt. Die Zugabe des Wurmkompostes zur Pflanzerde verringerte die Lagerungsdichte und die Partikeldichte, erhhte jedoch die Wasserhaltekapazitt. In einem Gewchshausversuch wurde das Wachstum von Tomatensamen in den verschiedenen Pflanzerdenmischungen untersucht, indem man das Trockengewicht der Schsslinge bestimmte. Des Weiteren wurden die Nhrstoffaufnahme, und der Nhrstoffgehalt in den Blttern whrend der Bltezeit erfasst. Das Wachstum der Tomatenpflanzen in Tpfen mit SW, MU und SU war strker als fr die anderen Mischungen. Mit Ausnahme des Stickstoffs lagen die Nhrstoffkonzentrationen in den Blattproben in einem Bereich der fr die optimale Versorgung ausreicht.
24126667|The physiological mechanisms controlling the induction of lateral branching, which is part of the expression of growth vigour, were investigated in two hybrid rootstocks (GF 677 and Mr.S. 2/5) widely used in peach [Prunus persica (L.) Batsch] cultivation that were grafted to a nectarine scion (cv. 'Big Top'). As expected, field-grown rootstocks showed different degrees of vigour and also induced distinct patterns of growth on the scion. The higher the rootstock vigour, the greater the number and length of lateral shoots developed by the scion. Hence, the growth vigour affected paradormancy and we hypothesized that auxin, which is known to suppress axillary bud development following bud break when transported basipetally along the shoot, might mediate rootstock-induced branching in the top of the tree. The role of indole-3-acetic acid as a hormonal signal in lateral branching was assessed by analysing its concentration in apical and axillary buds collected from growing shoots, both intact and at different times after apex removal. Shoot pruning was used as a means to force axillary buds to overcome paradormancy, assuming that their responses would reflect their intrinsic capacity of resuming growth. The development of lateral buds of both grafted scions and intact rootstocks was positively correlated with the respective auxin concentration and following shoot apex removal the relationships became stronger. Therefore, auxin may be responsible for mediating the expression of growth vigour. The invigorating effect of a rootstock would then be dependent on its ability of inducing high auxin levels in axillary buds. The hormone would act directly within bud tissues to stimulate their growth following bud break.
24126304|PR 204/84 rootstock (peach x almond) is a promising rootstock for peach trees as an alternative to GF 677. The present study was the first attempt to micropropagate this genotype. Two experiments were conducted. In the first experiment, two benzylaminopurine (BAP) concentrations (0.08, 0.28 M) were employed in combination with four gibberellic acid (GA3) concentrations (0, 0.028, 0.28, 2.8 M). It was observed, that although there is not a clear statistical difference between 0.08 M BAP plus 0.028 M GA3 and 0.28 M BAP plus 0 M GA3 in terms of shoot length, the first treatment was the most appropriate because the shoots possessed better macroscopic appearance. In the second experiment, two GA3 concentrations (0.028, 0.28 M) were combined with four concentrations of activated charcoal (AC) (0, 4.2, 8.4, 20.8 mM). BAP was fixed at 0.08 M. It was observed that the treatments 0.028 M GA3 plus 20.8 mM AC and 0.28 M GA3 plus 8.4 mM AC in the medium during the elongation stage were not statistically different in terms of shoot length. However, inclusion of AC in the medium resulted in an improved overall macroscopic appearance of leaves and shoots in comparison to 0 mM AC. Die Unterlage PR 204/84 (Pfirsich x Mandel) ist eine vielversprechende Pfirsichunterlage und eine Alternative zu GF 677. Die vorliegende Untersuchung ist der erste Versuch der in vitro-Vermehrung dieses Genotyps. Zwei Experimente wurden durchgefhrt. Im ersten wurden zwei Benzylaminopurin- (BAP-) (0.08, 0.28 M) mit vier Gibberellinsure-(GA3-)Konzentrationen (0, 0.028, 0.28, 2.8 M) kombiniert. Obwohl keine statistischen Unterschiede zwischen den Kombinationen 0.08 M BAP plus 0.028 M GA3 sowie 0.28 M BAP plus 0 M GA3 hinsichtlich Sprosslnge nachweisbar waren, erwies sich die erstgenannte Kombination als geeigneter, da das makroskopische Erscheinungsbild der Sprosse besser war. In einem zweiten Experiment wurden zwei GA3-(0.028, 0.28 M) mit vier Aktivkohle- (AC-)Konzentrationen kombiniert. BAP blieb konstant bei 0.08 M. Dabei zeigte sich, dass die Kombinationen 0.028 M GA3 plus 20.8 mM AC sowie 0.28 M GA3 plus 8.4 mM AC im Medium whrend der Sprossstreckungsphase keinen statistisch nachweisbaren Einfluss hinsichtlich der Sprosslnge hatten. Allerdings verbesserte die Zugabe von Aktivkohle das makroskopische Erscheinungsbild von Blttern uns Sprossen.
24126251|'Amarillo' melon (Cucumis melo var. saccharinus) was freshly-cut into trapezoidal pieces and stored for up to 14 days in air (control) or in controlled atmosphere (CA) of 4 kPa O2 + 15 kPa CO2 (low O2 and high CO2), and 21 kPa O2 + 15 kPa CO2 (high CO2) at 5 C. Both types of CA reduced the respiration rate and C2H4 emission and led to melon pieces of a better sensory quality than control. Fresh-cut melon softened rapidly, a process slowed by low O2 plus high CO2 levels (33 % loss of firmness compared to 41 % in air). That combination reduced the total soluble solids consumption but not that of citric acid. Both CA reduced microbial counts [by 1.8 to 2 log10 cfu g-1 (colony forming units per g of sample)], while the control exceeded the Spanish legal limits of fungal counts. Melon pieces under both CA achieved a shelf life of 14 days although 4 kPa O2 + 15 kPa CO2 was preferable for keeping the firmness.
24126689|Characterization of plant with the use of molecular marker is an ideal approach for conservation of plant genetic resources and improvement. Modern molecular techniques have been developed to meet the demands of the horticulture industry. An overview on the use of molecular markers (RAPD, AP-PCR, DAF, RFLP, AFLP, ISSR, EST, RAMP) in ornamental plants is covered. Population genetics, genetic linkage map and marker assisted selection techniques have significantly simplified the breeding procedures and overcome some of the agronomic, abiotic and biotic problems, which other wise would not be achievable through conventional breeding methods. The development and remarkable achievements with molecular biotechnology in ornamental plants made during the three decades have been reviewed.
24126722|Several orchard management practices and postharvest strategies have been adopted to increase productivity and maintain fruit quality. Growth regulator sprays have been widely used to improve the size of stone fruits. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of sprays of different combinations of prohexadionecalcium (P-Ca) and naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) on 'Castlebrite' apricot trees, particularly on tree yield and maintain fruit quality after a cold storage period. The treatments were: TO = control; T1 = P-Ca spray with 10 cm-long shoots, spray with P-Ca 10 d after, and spray with P-Ca 20 d after; T2 = NAA spray with 10 cm-long shoots, spray with P-Ca and NAA 10 d after; T3 = NAA spray with 10 cm-long shoots; T4 = NAA spray with 10 cm-long shoots, spray with NAA 10 d later. The harvested fruit was stored in cold storage chamber for 0, 20 and 40 d, and then evaluated the quality attributes. Fruit quality was evaluated instrumentally and by sensory analysis conducted by a trained panel and a consumer test. Sprays that combine P-Ca and NAA induced a significant increase in mean fruit mass and yield compared to the control. Negligible differences were observed in the acceptability and sensory quality of the fruit.
24126333|In an experiment with roses grown hydroponically, a low (0.3 mM) and a high (2 mM) level of silicon were combined with a low (0.8 mM) and a high (40 mM) NaCl concentration in the nutrient solution supplied to the crop. The aim of the experiment was to detect possible beneficial effects of silicon on plant growth, yield and flower quality and to test whether the deleterious effects of NaCl-salinity on roses could be mitigated by increasing the Si concentration in the root zone. Silicon was added to the nutrient solution in form of a water-soluble potassium silicate compound. The electrical conductivity (EC) in the nutrient solutions with low and high NaCl concentrations was 1.8 and 6.1 dS m-1, respectively, while the corresponding values in the drainage water, which indicated the salinity status in the root zone, were 2.3 and 8.2 dS m-1, respectively. The increase of the NaCl concentration in the root zone restricted the above-ground vegetative weight of roses, the number of flowers per plant and the mean flower weight and stem length. The increased supply of Si significantly enhanced the vegetative growth of roses at both salinity levels, improved the overall appearance of the plants and resulted in a higher number of marketable flowers per plant at the low salinity level. However, silicon was unable to ameliorate the adverse effects of NaCl-salinity on flower production and quality. The increased Si concentration in the root environment restricted the translocation of Na and Cl to the young leaves of roses. However, net photosynthesis, stomatal conductance and transpiration rate were not affected either by Si or by NaCl-salinity at the concentration levels tested in this study. This finding indicates that the stimulation of the vegetative growth of roses by Si under conditions of high external salinity was not due to mitigation of toxic Na or Si effects on the photosynthetic apparatus.
24126441|Tomato (Lycopersicum esculentum Mill.) plants 'Manit F1' were sprayed with several plant cryoprotection treatments at the phenological stage with plants bearing four true leaves. The active ingredients of the potential cryoprotectors used were: Me2SO, proline, polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP), a preparation of free amino acids plus nitrogen and a preparation of glycerol plus vitamin E. The effectiveness of the cryoprotector was assessed 24 hours after spraying using differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) on leaf tissue and whole plant freezing simulations. The treatment composed of an aqueous solution of 5% glycerin and 0.35% vitamin E was found to be the most effective cryoprotector for reduction of freeze damage on tomato leaf tissue.
24126215|Experiments on the influence of rootstocks and foliar sprays of macro-and microelements on granulation and quality of Valencia sweet orange (Citrus sinensis (L.) Osbeck) fruits were carried out over a three-year-period (19961998) at the Agios Saranda Pomology Research Station. The Pondrus trifoliata rootstock markedly reduced granulation with 31 % compared with 73 % on C. aurantium rootstock. The combined spraying with zinc, + manganese and copper (each 0, 5 %) was the best treatment in reducing granulation and enhancing fruit quality. This combination reduced granulation on both rootstocks to about 1241 % compared to that of control treatment. Zinc or copper separately reduced the incidence of granulation to almost 24 % 28 % compared to the unsprayed control treatment on both rootstocks. Potassium nitrate (1 %), calcium hydroxide (2 %) and boric acid (100 mg 1-1) reduced granulation to a lesser extent. Most of these treatments improved fruit quality and resulted in much more endocarp juice, total soluble solids, and vitamin C content than the control and also markedly reduced peel weight and acidity. The use of specific rootstocks and foliar application of nutrients is a powerful tool in reducing granulation and in improving fruit quality in sweet Valencia orange. Whrend einer dreijhrigen Versuchszeit (19961998) wurde der Einfluss von Unterlagen und Blattspritzungen mit verschiedenen Makro- und Mikronhrstoffen auf die Granulierung und Qualitt von Valencia Apfelsinen (C sinensis (L.) Osbeck ) im Agios Saranda Obstbauforschungsinstitut untersucht. Die Veredelung auf P. trifoliata verminderte die Granulierung der Frchte um 31 %, whrend die Verwendung vom C. aurantium als Unterlage zu einer Verringerung von nur 73 % fhrte. Die kombinierte Spritzung mit 0,5 % Zinksulfat, 0,5 % Mangansulfat und 0,5 % Kupfersulfat bewhrte sich als die beste Behandlung fr die Reduzierung der Fruchtgranulierung und die Verbesserung der Fruchtqualitt. Diese Behandlung verminderte die Fruchtgranulierung auf ca. 2931 % im Vergleich zu der Kontrollvariante. Die Anwendung von nur 0,5 % Zinksulfat oder 0,5 % Kupfersulfat Spritzlsung reduzierte das Auftreten der Fruchtgranulierung um ca. 2428 % in beiden Unterlagen im Vergleich zu der unbehandelten Kontrollvariante. Die Spritzung mit 1 % Kaliumnitrat, 2 % Calciumhydroxid und 100 mg 1-1 Borsure reduzierte ebenfalls das Auftreten von Fruchtgranulierung zu einem geringeren Prozentsatz. Die meisten von diesen Veredelungs- und Blattspritzungsbehandlungen verbesserten die Fruchtqualitat, erhhten die Saftausbeute und die Konzentration an wasserlslicher Trockensubstanz und Vitamin C im Fruchtendocarp im Vergleich zu der Kontrollvariante. Darber hinaus senkten sowohl die Veredlung auf die zwei getesteten Unterlagen als auch die Blattspritzungen deutlich das Schalengewicht der Apfelsinenfrucht. Diese Ergebnisse deuten darauf hin, dass sowohl die Veredlung auf bestimmte Unterlagen als auch die Blattdngung, effektive Manahmen fr die Verminderung der Fruchtgranulierung und die Erhhung der Fruchtqualitt bei Valencia Apfelsinen sind.
24126518|The efficacy of hot-water dipping against apple storage rots caused by Neonectria galligena, Botrytis cinerea and Penicillium expansum was examined. Pure spore suspensions as well as artificially inoculated 'Elstar' apples were incubated for 3 min in a water bath heated to specific temperatures in the range of 32 C to 70 C, followed by incubation at 2 C (fruit) or 20 C (spores). Whereas there were striking interspecific differences in the dipping temperatures survived by spores, storage rots caused by all three species were significantly reduced by dipping temperatures around 50 C. Temperatures above 52 C caused serious heat scald on the fruit surface and gave rise to increasing levels of fruit rot in the case of N. galligena and P. expansum. Very similar temperature-response curves of blue mould development were observed in apples inoculated with P. expansum before or after hot-water dipping, except for the highest temperature tested (70 C). It is concluded that the major effect of hot-water dipping against these fruit rots is mediated by heat-induced acquired resistance of fruit rather than heat-mediated spore mortality. These results suggest possible applications for hot-water dipping of apples at harvest, after short-term cold storage or after the opening of controlled-atmosphere storage rooms in order to improve fruit quality during subsequent storage periods.
24126683|The influence of pedicel dimension on 'Hayward' kiwifruit (Actinidia deliciosa (A. Chev.) C.F. Liang et A.R. Ferguson var. deliciosa) size was studied. Plant growth regulators and defoliations were used to manipulate pedicel weight and length. When lateral pedicels, with fruit removed, were inserted into vials filled with Agromil-Plus (5 l L-1 CPPU (N-(2-chloro-4-pyridy)-N-phenylurea) plus natural bioregulators), the terminal pedicel dimensions were dramatically increased but the fruit size response (122 g) was inferior to that obtained by dipping fruit in CPPU (138 g). GA3 (100 mg L-1) supplied to the pedicel reduced the fruit weight and increased the length of terminal pedicels. ABA (50 mg L-1) did not significantly influence fruit weight or pedicel length. Fruit dipped in CPPU that additionally received a pedicel application of this compound had similar fruit weight (141 g) to that of dipped fruit but significantly greater pedicel weight. Cane defoliation initiated at bud burst produced pedicels of small size on fruit of similar fresh weight to untreated canes. The conclusion was reached that pedicel length and weight are not casually related to fruit size but conditions leading to large fruit may also produce large pedicels.
24127677|In Europe, lettuce (Lactuca sativa L., Asteraceae) is commonly raised in greenhouses and transplanted to the field at the age of two to four weeks in order to prolong the growing season. The sudden exposure to outdoor conditions including altered temperature, radiation levels and rainfall events is extremely stressful for non-acclimated seedlings. Particularly the increase in ultraviolet-B radiation is considered a serious threat. A new approach to pre-acclimate seedlings to ambient ultraviolet-B radiation is the use of ultraviolet-B transparent covering materials. In order to estimate the benefit of UV-B pre-acclimation, lettuce plants were raised in greenhouses covered with three different materials varying in ultraviolet-B transmittance and transplanted to the field at the age of three weeks. U1traviolet-B exposure during the greenhouse period led to a reduction in growth (leaf length, leaf area and leaf number) and an increase in flavonoid content. Transplantation to the field induced a strong enhancement in flavonoid content and a severe growth reduction overriding differences between UV-B treatment groups within a few days. At the time of harvest plant fresh weight was therefore independent from previous u1traviolet-B treatment. Effects of UV-B acclimation on plant performance immediately after transplantation require more detailed examination.
24126249|In this study, the effects of shading treatments at different time periods on yield and growth in the Junebearing strawberry 'Sweet Charlie' were evaluated. The plants were covered with 50 % shading material in a greenhouse during the following periods: 1) greenhouse check (GC), no shade, 2) flower initiation period (FIP1) in Fall 2002, 3) flower initiation period (FIP2) in Fall 2002, 4) the fruiting period (FP) in Spring 2003, 5) constant shading (CS), 6) open field (OF), no shade. Shading during the FP reduced runnering. In general, there was no consistent effect of shading on the crown and leaf number in the experiment. The leaf area of the plants in the CS treatment was generally larger than that in the other treatments in the spring and summer period. Also, the petiole length of the plants in GC and CS was higher than that of the plants in OF in the spring and summer periods. Yield was significantly reduced in the FIP1 and FIP2 treatments. Shading during FP reduced inflorescence number and yield. CS significantly reduced all of the yield parameters. In OF, the number of inflorescences and flowers and the yield per plant was significantly reduced compared to other treatments possibly because of lower temperature preventing flowering or injuring the flowers. The increased fruit weight with CS and OF treatments was the result of reduced inflorescence and flower numbers. Fruit was the smallest in FIP1. The soluble solid content of the fruits in OF was the highest possibly due to the high light intensity while those of the fruits in CS and FP was the lowest. The amount of discarded fruit (deformed, rotten and small fruit) on plants shaded during FP was the highest while the least amount of total discarded fruit was from plants in the open field. In summary, the results of the study suggest that 'Sweet Charlie' responded negatively to shading.
24127048|In this study we investigated the in vitro flowering of Begonia parvula, a highly ornamental wild species from China. Seeds were sown in a hormone-free defined medium (1/4 MS). Eight weeks after culture, seedlings were transferred to 1/2 MS medium. A period of 5.5 months elapsed from the seed state to the stage when male and female flowers were fully open. A comparison was made between both the in vivo and in vitro male and female flowers. We noted that a number of the flowers' reproductive organs in vitro were smaller than in vivo. Flowers from both investigations had identical reproductive organs. Pollen viability was 63 % and 53 % respectively from the in vitro and in vivo male flowers after incubation in a liquid pollen germination medium for 24 h. In vitro fruit ripening was observed and viable seeds were obtained six to seven weeks after manual pollination. The seed size in vitro were 323.40 m long and 205.00 m wide, which was not significantly different statistically from that of the seeds in vivo. Our study showed that the life cycle of B. parvula can be completely controlled in vitro. As a result, we can eliminate the limitation from unsynchronized bloom in the future breeding attempts using B. parvula as a parent.
24126387|Five pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) lines with varying degrees in flesh firmness were used to identify biochemical characteristics related to fruit softening. Firmness of fruit flesh (with epidermis attached) and flesh (without epidermis) was measured at different developmental stages: premature [1520 days post-anthesis (DPA), stage 1], green mature (commercially ripe, 3035 DPA, stage 2), colour turning (fruit becoming 3040 % red, 4050 DPA, stage 3), and red ripe (fruit totally red, 6070 DPA, stage 4). Since firmness with and without the epidermis attached changed similarly in all pepper lines during development, flesh firmness (without the epidermis) was used to represent pepper fruit firmness. Biochemical characteristics measured included insoluble pectin, soluble pectin, and cellulose contents, and the activities of pectin methyl-esterase (PME), polygalacturonase (PG), -galactosidase, and cellulase. In all lines, flesh firmness was highest at stage 3, and then decreased during development. Soluble pectin content also increased in all lines. Cellulose content normally decreased after stage 3, but these changes varied among lines. With ripening PG and PME decreased in the most firm lines, and cellulase and -galactosidase were the key enzymes involved in the less firm lines. These biochemical characters related to fruit firmness and firmness type should provide for breeding for improvements in storage and transportation.
24126293|The primary and secondary metabolites, in addition to the berry grape colouration, of eleven table grape varieties (Vitis vinifera L.) (white 'Aurora', 'Matilde', 'Perlette', 'Regina dei vignetti', and red 'Cardinal', 'Chasselas red', 'Muscat Hamburg', 'Michele Palieri', 'Perlon', 'Ribier' and 'Ribol') from sub-Mediterranean traditional wine production region of Slovenia were screened in the years 2004, 2005 and 2006. Phenols, carbohydrates, and organic acids in grapes were analysed using a high-performance liquid Chromatograph (HPLC), while for the colour analysis, a colorimeter and an O.I.V. descriptor were used. In primary and secondary metabolite content levels, significant differences were observed among varieties. The screened phenol content showed differences, especially in the average (+)-catechin (0.857.3 mg kg-1 FW), (-)-epicatechin (1.13.1 mg kg-1 FW), M-3-G (27170 mg kg-1 FW), trans-resveratrol (0.243.05 mg kg-1 FW) and kaempferol (2.820.2 mg kg-1 FW) contents. In terms of flavan-3-ols, anthocyanins, trans-resveratrol and kaempferol content levels, the most abundant phenol levels were quantified in the red varieties, especially in 'Michele Palieri'. The red varieties, compared to the white varieties had higher and statistically significant average total sugar content (154 g kg-1 FW) and total acid content (6.0 g kg-1 FW). Taking into account all the determined metabolites of grape quality, the 'Perlon' variety differed most, but the grape quality properties of all the screened varieties were satisfactory.
24126378|Maintenance of stomata activity during post-harvest period is one of the key factors keeping water status of cut roses in balance, thereby determining their vase life. In order to study their stomata function and stomata adaptation ability to water stress, transpiration and cavitation rate of cut roses (Rosa hybrida 'Candid Prophyta') were measured simultaneously. Rose stems with an ultrasonic sensor fixed at the peduncle were placed in a gas exchange chamber. Transpiration as well as acoustic emissions were recorded under fluctuating 3 h light-dark rhythm or under continuous light, respectively in dehydration experiments. When starting the experimental procedure roses showed a strong dependence of transpiration rate on light-dark rhythms, indicating a stomata function. The first cavitations appeared after 5 light-dark cycles in this experiment. Parallel to an increase of cavitation rate the transpiration rate declined. Exposure of rose stems to air led first to a short increase of the transpiration rate (Iwanoff effect), which then progressively decreased during the following 3 h dehydration period. With a time lag of a few minutes to the increase of transpiration the cavitation rate increased rapidly as well, and reached its maximum within the following 20 minutes of dehydration. Thereafter the cavitation rate started to decline nearly parallel to the transpiration rate, and stayed on a low level within the rest of the rehydration period. In most cases replacing the roses back into water increased the transpiration rate only partially caused by the long after effect of water stress on stomata function. A strong relationship between cavitation occurrence and transpiration rate was observed also during their following vase life. Furthermore, simultaneous measurements of cavitations and transpiration rate has been shown to be a very helpful aid in studying water stress management of cut roses.
24126870|In this experiment the effects of a moderate nutrient or NaCl salinity on growth, gas exchange and water relations in pepper grown in a substrate soilless closed system were studied. A control (2 dS m-1) and two saline nutrient solutions (4 dS m-1) differing in the salt sources (fertilizers or NaCl) were compared. Total plant dry mass was reduced more by NaCl salinity (-41 %) than nutrient salinity (-17 %) as well as total fruit yield (-48 and -33 %, respectively). In both salinity treatments, the yield decrease was due to a strong reduction in the mean fruit mass (-42 %), whereas NaCl-stressed plants also produced less fruits (-20 %). The results obtained on plant water relations, gas exchange and ion content in different plant organs demonstrated that the negative response of pepper to salt stress depends on both osmotic and ion specific effects. The detrimental effect on pepper response was more evident under NaCl stress. This could be mainly explained by the toxicity of Cl-, although slight nutrient imbalances due to Na+ and Cl- antagonisms were observed.
24126723|Rooting in tree peony (Paeonia suffruticosa Andr.) remains the most difficult challenge in the tissue culture of this woody ornamental plant. In a bid to increase rooting ability of tree peony plants in vitro, several abiotic factors were assessed. Indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) concentration, carbon source, substrate, and light source affected the root induction ability of tree peony cv. 'Wu Long Peng Sheng'. Without IBA, no roots formed. At 4 mg l-1 IBA, all rooting parameters were highest. When plantlets were cultured under light-emitting diodes (LEDs) or cold cathode fluorescent lamps (CCFLs) on rooting medium, rooting percentage on rockwool was higher than on Gellan gum. However, rooting percentage was higher under heat fluorescent lamps than under LEDs or CCFLs, independent of the medium substrate. Sucrose resulted in higher rooting ability than CO2-enrichment under any light source; moreover, CO2-enrichment appeared to have a detrimental effect on rooting percentage. Rooting was better under heterotrophic than under photoautotrophic conditions. Rooting of tree peony was successfully achieved under various conditions, which will gready benefit the micropropagation of this difficult-to-root tree.
24126400|Fruit samples of seven sweet cherry cultivars grouped into three different groups of fruit flesh firmness (soft-fruited: 'Ranna Ljaskovska', 'Vista' and 'Sunburst', medium firm: 'Ulster' and 'Sylvia' and firm cultivars: 'Van' and 'Lapins') were harvested over a three week period with 34 d intervals prior to, during and after normal harvest time in 1997 and 1998 in Ullensvang, western Norway. Fruit firmness was measured at each harvest date along with measurements of soluble solids content (SSC), air temperature, precipitation and estimation of fruit colour. Corresponding samples picked at normal harvest date were stored in normal air atmosphere at temperatures 2 C and 8 C, respectively, and firmness was measured during storage with 35 d intervals. All the tested cultivars reached normal firmness, colour and SSC at harvest both years. Fruit were generally darker in 1998 than in 1997. All cultivars showed a more or less distinct reduction in firmness over the period prior to and slightly after normal harvest. Exceptions were 'Sunburst' in the 1998-season, that increased in firmness after normal harvest date, and the two firmest cultivars that increased in firmness over the ripening period in 1997. Generally, firmness increased during the first part of storage followed by a decrease after 12 weeks, the decrease being usually earlier and more distinct at 8 C than at 2C. 'Van' in 1998 showed no change in firmness development throughout the storage period but a small increase in the last part. 'Lapins' in 1997 had, however, a pronounced drop in firmness in the middle of the storage period followed by an increase. All the tested cultivars were more firm at normal harvest time in 1998 than in 1997, except the two firm-fleshed cultivars 'Van' and 'Lapins'. The warm and sunny 1997-summer produced softer fruits than the cold and rainy 1998-season, except for the firm-fleshed cultivars. It was anticipated that the many contradictory results of sweet cherry fruit firmness reported by other authors may be caused by differences in weather conditions as demonstrated.
24126734|With the rapid intensification of agriculture in Sudan salinity problems are increasingly hampering efforts to meet the food demands of a growing population. To increase income and subsistence needs of farmers and to counteract land degradation increased reliance on salt-tolerant fruit trees are of particular interest for many marginal areas. Given lacking knowledge about tolerance of Grewia tenax (Forssk.) Fiori to NaCl salinity, this study aimed at investigating the tolerance of this species to NaCl stress. Seedlings of G. tenax were exposed to four different levels of NaCl salinity for a period of 7 weeks. Treatments were 0, 20, 40 and 80 mM in the irrigation solution corresponding to an EC of 1.8, 3.8, 5.6 and 8.6 dS m-1 for the first four weeks of the experiment, representing the early seedling stage of G. tenax. In an effort to mimic salt stress under field conditions the subsequent three weeks salt concentrations were doubled reflecting EC values of 1.8, 5.6, 8.6 and 15.2 dS m-1. Plants treated with 40/80 mM and 80/160 mM NaCl dropped 6 and 10 % of their leaves, respectively. Leaf area per plant decreased due to a decreased number of leaves rather than a reduction in area per leaf. The reduction in leaf area was 33, 42 and 54 % at 20/40 mM, 40/80 mM and 80/160 mM NaCl, respectively, whereas the corresponding reduction in total dry matter was 25, 36 and 49 % of the control. Net photosynthesis was reduced by 29 and 42 % at the moderate and high salt levels, respectively. Similarly, stomatal conductance and transpiration decreased with increasing salt level, however, internal CO2 increased. Given the accumulation of Na and Cl in plant tissues, G. tenax classifies as a salt-includer species whereby leaves managed to maintain the level of K constant under high NaCl.
24126417|The influence of flesh firmness on consumer acceptance and its relationship with total soluble solids concentration (TSSC), titratable acidity (TTA) and sensory analysis was studied to understand their interaction in determining acceptance judgments, for different organoleptic typologies of peaches and nectarines. The investigation was carried out during summer 2006 on fruit of 'September Sun' and 'Sweet September' (low acid) peach {Prunus persica (L.) Batsch), and 'Maria Dolce' (low acid) and 'Venus' nectarines {Prunus persica (L.) Batsch, var. nucipersica). Sensory descriptors for peaches and nectarines were Flesh firmness, Sweetness, Sourness, Aroma, and Acceptability. The panel was able to discriminate different fruit ripening stages, in terms of fruit firmness, aroma and sweetness and to relate those parameters to fruit acceptability. 'Maria Dolce', "Venus' and 'September Sun' fruit ranging from 3.2 to 5.3 kg cm-2 of flesh firmness, were accepted by the panel, while acceptability of low-acid fruit of 'Sweet September' was related to their aroma and firmness. Values of flesh firmness higher than 5.5 kg cm-2 always resulted in unacceptable fruit quality.
24126916|Persisting drought conditions and diminishing water resources are common in arid and semi-arid zones; therefore, it is important to find turf species and cultivars that can survive with less water. A field study was conducted in 2009 and 2010 at the University of California, Riverside USA to assess the drought tolerance of 8 tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreb.) cultivars, and 2 populations of Festuca  Lolium hybrids [Festulolium [FL]). Commercial tall fescue cultivars were: 2nd Millennium, Avenger, Bonsai 3000, Fawn, Firenza, Forrest Green, Mason, and Silver Hawk. Festulolium populations were created through wide hybridization of tetraploid perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne L.; Lp) with diploid meadow fescue [Festuca pratensis (Huds.) P. Beauv. (Fp)] backcrossed to Lp. Also evaluated were commercial cool-season blends or mixtures consisting oftall fescue cultivars; a perennial ryegrass, Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis L.), creeping red fescue (Festuca rubra rubra L.), and chewings fescue (Festuca rubra commutata Gaudin) mixture; a tall fescue and annual ryegrass mixture; and a perennial ryegrass and Kentucky bluegrass mixture. Irrigation was suspended during the Stimmer for 21 days and subsequently resumed at 100 % ETo for the following month. No differences were detected after 21 days without water among individual tall fescue cultivars and FL populations. The two FL populations showed the highest quality (6.8) and colour (6.6) before the drought period, but showed the lowest ratings during recovery (3.4). Although no differences were observed 21 days after irrigation was withheld, blends or mixtures containing tall fescue recovered better than perennial ryegrass or Kentucky bluegrass.
24126488|This study investigated the effect of grafting on the vegetative growth and reproductive development of tomato plants under controlled prolonged heat stress conditions. The heat tolerant tomato cultivar (cv.) 'Summerset' and the eggplant cv. 'Black Beauty' were selected as rootstocks and the heat sensitive tomato cv. 'UC 82-B' as scion. Grafted (tomato/tomato (T/T), and tomato/eggplant (T/E)) and non-grafted plants were grown under high (37/27 C day/night) temperature and control (26/20 C) temperature conditions in growth chambers. The experiments were conducted twice with the same conditions. This study indicated that grafted plants developed better under heat stress conditions than the non-grafted ones. T/E plants, for instance, showed significantly higher values of chlorophyll fluorescence at late fruiting stage, greater leaf area, leaf fresh and dry weight, number of pollen grains per flower and lower values of electrolyte leakage than non-grafted 'UC 82-B' at 37/27 C. Also T/T plants had a better vegetative growth than 'UC 82-B'. However, there was no positive effect on reproductive traits including yield due to grafting. Further combinations with good productive scions and heat stress tolerant rootstocks need to be tested.
24126819|Consumers are becoming increasingly demanding with regard to vegetable quality. For slicing cucumbers, appearance and shelf life are often described. However, little is known about taste. The main objective of this paper was to describe physicochemical parameters of slicing cucumbers and their relation to consumer sensory evaluation. Shrink filmed slicing cucumbers (Cucumis sativus L.) from eight different producers, four Norwegian and four Spanish, were obtained through Norwegian wholesalers. The fruits were analysed on arrival and during four weeks of storage at 12 C in darkness. On arrival, significant differences between cucumbers from different producers were found for all measured physicochemical parameters: fruit length, weight, diameter, colour, endocarp diameter, dry matter content, firmness, soluble solid content (SSC), electrical conductivity (EC), total titratable acids (TTA), content of fructose, glucose, sucrose, malic and citric acids. During storage the green colour faded, and there was a reduction in dry matter, firmness and EC, whereas SSC and TTA increased. At harvest fructose, glucose and sucrose were the main sugars with a relative distribution of 48, 35 and 15 % respectively. Malic acid was the main organic acid (64%). During storage citric acid content raised from 211 to 266 mg 100 g-1 fresh weight. Sensory evaluation showed significant differences between cucumbers from different producers. A positive correlation was obtained for consumer preference and SSC, whilst a negative correlation was found towards EC. A strong correlation (r = 0.96) was revealed between consumer preference and the relation SSC2  (TTA  EC)-1. This indicates that consumer preference for cucumbers might be predicted by measurements of SSC, TTA and EC.
24126822|New lighting technologies of interest for the greenhouse horticulture have been introduced in the market during the last couple of years. The LED-technology has attended special interest from researchers and business, with attractive features such as long lifetime, high efficiency and possibilities for tailoring the light spectrum. In this study, common horticultural crops were grown in greenhouse conditions using different LED-light sources as well as HPS-lamps for supplementary lighting. Experiments were conducted both during increasing (spring) and decreasing (fall) natural light conditions. Biometrie as well as photosynthetic evaluation of plant performance was performed. Plant parameters such as internodal length, development of flowers and lateral shoots, biomass accumulation (fresh/dry weight) and developmental time were recorded, in addition to photosynthesis and stomata conductance. Results indicate that biomass production was the highest when HPS-light was used. For photosynthesis and stomata conductance there were no differences with respect to the different treatments. Plant morphology was affected, with a reduction in stem elongation when red/blue or white LEDs were used as light source in ornamental plants grown during autumn period, and development was also delayed when LEDs were applied. However, in experiments performed dining springtime there were no differences in plant morphology related to the different light sources.
24126427|Basic features and special problems of modelling plant/crop development, in this part the impacts of photoperiodism and temperature on reproduction and yielding are reviewed, extended and utilisations in vegetable production are discussed.
24126419|The aim of this work was to determine the long-term response of growth, leaf morphology and gas exchange of three widely grown shrubs to the level of irradiance. To this purpose, one-year-old uniform rooted cuttings of Camellia x williamsii W.W.Sm. 'Debbie', Photinia x fraseri Dress 'Red Robin' and Viburnum tinus L. 'Eve Price' grown in containers were placed for 2 years under different woven polypropylene fabrics that reduced light intensity by 60 % and 30 % and, as a control, plants were also grown in full sun. Plant dry weight, LAI, LAR, NAR, RGR, mean leaf area, number, ultrastructure and gas exchange were measured during the experiment. The species reacted in different ways to shading, indicating a strong genetic influence, even if some parameters as transpiration, leaf thickness, leaf size and stomatal frequency responded similarly to irradiance. Camellia showed a great adaptability to light conditions. Shading photinia greatly reduced root biomass but did not alter leaf gas exchange, thus is not a recommendable practice for this species. Viburnum increased leaves and stems biomass and increased net photosynthesis and water use efficiency under shaded conditions. In conclusion, effects of shading can positively affect plant growth and physiology, but response to shading is species-specific.
24126520|Artichoke is a source of caffeolquinic acids and flavonoids for pharmaceutical industry as their concentrations in the leaves tend to be very high. A three-year field experiment was conducted in Poland to estimate the effects of irrigation and various plantation modalities on the concentrations and productions of these substances. In the experiment four methods of plantation establishment (single-grain direct seeds sowing, seeds sowing with covering with nonwoven polypropylene film, seedlings produced in a plastic tunnel transplantation, seedlings produced in multicell trays in a plastic tunnel transplantation) as well as drip irrigation on the background of unwatered plots were used. Generally, supplemental irrigation was connected with better developed plants, that produced greater number of longer leaves and as a result higher above ground parts weight, whereas dining the second cut (performed in October) significantly higher yields of better quality artichoke leaves were obtained. Both, with and without irrigation, yield was lower in the case of transplantation of seedlings with bare roots and at a less degree in the case of direct sowing without covering. The concentration of CQA and flavonoids were higher without irrigation and much lower in direct sowing than in transplantation. Thus, studies showed that direct sowing (even though with crops covering) resulting in lower yields of worse quality of artichoke raw material. Seedlings produced previously in plastic tunnel transplantation could be indicated as better method of artichoke plantation establishment for pharmaceutical purposes.
24134264|There has been very little literature on the mid season spatial variability of fruit production in horticulture crops published to date. Most of the existing literature refers to data collected post harvest. Crop load data taken prior to hand thinning and prior to harvest were collected in 3 blocks of a commercial apple (Malus domestica Borkh.) orchard in the province of Ferrara, Italy. The purpose of the survey was to characterize the within field variability of crop load, using spatial statistics, and assess the effectiveness of the hand-thinning treatment. Crop load estimations were taken at 156 sites pre and post hand-thinning over a defined distance (0.8 m) and the data used to model a variogram and associated spatial variation. Variation in the spatial distribution of the fruit load prior to the hand-thinning was observed, indicating a possibility to spatially differentially manage the orchard. No spatial variation in fruit number was observed prior to harvest (post-thinning), indicating that thinning had removed the previously observed spatial variation in crop load. Under the current uniform management approach this indicates that thinning has been effectively implemented. However, the spatial variation observed prior to thinning may indicate that a differential crop load management strategy may be optimal for maximizing quality in the orchard.
24126335|An efficient and rapid system was established for direct shoot regeneration from leaf explants of sweet potato [Ipomoea batatas (L.) Lam.]. Adventitious shoots were induced from leaf explants of cvs. 'Tainong (T) 57', 'T 64' and 'T 66' of sweet potato on modified MS medium [MS inorganic salts (Murashige and Skoog 1962), 0.6 mM myo-inositol, 5.0 M thiamine-HCl, 10.0 M nicotinic acid, 5.0 M pyridoxine-HCl (Zheng et al. 1996)] supplemented with benzyladenine (BA), thidiazuron (TDZ), 2-isopentenyladenine (2ip) alone as well as TDZ in combination with indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). Type and concentrations of cytokinins influenced adventitious shoot induction. Among BA, TDZ and 2ip, TDZ was the best for adventitious shoot induction with an optimal concentration of 5.0 M (average of 73.6, 72 and 50.3 shoots were induced from 30 leaf explants of cvs. 'Tainong 66', 'T 64' and 'T 57', respectively). Adventitious shoot induction was not improved with the addition of IAA; however, it promoted elongation of shoots. In vitro grown shoots were rooted on MS medium alone and also on MS supplemented with IBA. The well developed plantlets were successfully acclimatized in growth chamber under controlled environmental condition. Hardened plants were transplanted to pots and maintained in green house. The survival rate of the plantlets was 8695 %. This protocol of direct induction of adventitious shoots could be useful for the genetic transformation of sweet potato.
24126906|Like all modem agriculture sectors, turfgrass production and management is headed towards cost reduction, resource optimization and reduction of the environmental impact. In recent years the development of new technologies has provided new tools for monitoring agricultural crops. In particular, the combined adoption of geographic information systems, global positioning systems, multispectral lenses on board satellites and cartographic techniques allow a large scale management of agricultural resources. This paper reports the results of a trial attempting to evaluate the spectral signatures of several turf grass species\cultivars, for future use in satellite monitoring. This experimental study focused on 20 turfgrass species\cultivars, including perennial ryegrasses, tall fescues, kentucky bluegrasses, bermudagrasses (ecotypes, seeded and vegetatively propagated cultivars) and zoysiagrasses. Various agronomical and biological parameters were studied (quality, colour, dry matter, chlorophyll, carotenoids, nitrogen content) and turfgrass spectral reflectance for all entries was gathered. Results showed that, within the same species, selected vegetation indices are often able to discriminate between different cultivars that have been established and maintained with identical agronomical practices. Evaluation of the spectral reflectance of plants using field spectroradiometry provides the possibility to identify different species\ cultivars, especially through the use of hyperspectral proximity and remote sensing.
24126660|The effect of different Fe sources [FeSO47H2O, (NH4)2[Fe(SO4)2]6H2O, FeEDDHA (ferric ethylenediamine di (o-hydroxyphenylacetic acid)] and concentrations (0.1, 0.2, 0.4 mM Fe) on multiplication and rooting of the pear rootstock OHF 333 in vitro was studied. The length of shoots significantly increased in the presence of 0.2 mM FeSO47H2O in comparison to the rest treatments. However, the number of shoots per expiant and the fresh mass were significantly increased in the presence of 0.4 mM FeEDDHA. FeEDDHA at all concentrations significantly promoted shoot proliferation in comparison to the rest Fe sources. Expiants supplied with 0.1 mM Fe in the form of (NH4)2[Fe(SO4)2]6H2O had higher rooting percentage, as well as greater number of roots per expiant, root length, and fresh and dry mass of cultures compared to the rest Fe sources. The organic form of Fe (FeEDDHA) resulted in low percentage of rooting compared to the other Fe sources. Expiants grown on media without Fe showed low rooting percentage. Calcium, Mg and B concentrations of plants treated with the various Fe forms were not significantly different compared to the control. By increasing Fe concentration of the culture medium from 0.1 to 0.4 mM, Mn and Zn concentrations of cultures declined.
24126422|Several factors affecting in vitro regeneration of the difficult to regenerate apple rootstock M.9 type T337 have been examined by modifying the composition of tissue culture media, namely basal salt mixture as well as cytokinin (TDZ, BAP) and auxin (NAA) concentration and combination. MS medium (with Van der Salm modification) gave consistently better results than DKW medium. Highest regeneration rates (ca. 87 %) were obtained with 0.54 M NAA/0.45 M and 15.0 M TDZ, respectively. However adventitious shoots were hyperhydric irrespective of the TDZ/NAA concentration. Replacing TDZ by 22.0 M BAP resulted in a little lower regeneration rate (68 %) but here only 7 % of the explants were hyperhydric.
24134257|Nodal sections of Quillaja saponaria, 'Quillay', including the proximal part of leaf laminae from 2-year old trees, as well as polynodal sections (34 axillary buds), were cultivated in MS-medium (Murashige and Skoog (1962) in the presence of various cytokinins, especially high levels of benzyladenine (BA) or thidiazuron (TDZ). This initiated profuse branching of the axillary bud and the induction of many new shoots and also callus formation in both explant types. From a single polynodal explant, more than 200 new multiple shoots developed in a period of 3 4 months. Proliferation of new shoots occurred mostly under the preexisting axillary bud(s) of the section and at the proximal end of the petiole with its intact leaf attached. Shoot clusters or isolated shoots elongated in subculture in the presence of MS-medium without growth regulators or formed roots when supplemented with indolebutyric acid (IBA) within a period of 3060 days, leading to plantlets. Root formation occurred in  strength MS-medium with added 1 % sucrose and 0.6, 1.2 and 5.0 mg l-1 IBA, as single hormone. Roots did not form in lower IBA levels (0.1 mg l-1) while the addition of phloroglucinol or thiamine did not enhance rhizogenesis besides the IBA. Despite the strong shoot initiation occurring in both nodal and polynodal explants, morphogenesis was not observed in leaf explant sections, and callus derived from nodal sections, formed green globular structures only without further differentiation. Nodale Segmente einschlielich der proximalen Blattenden von zweijhrigen Quillaja saponaria Pflanzen als auch polynodal-Segmente mit 34 axillren Sprossen wurden in Murashige und Skoog (1962) -Medium (MS) mit einer hohen Konzentration von Benzyladenin (BA) und Thidiazuron (TDZ) kultiviert. Beide Explantate zeigten eine Verzweigung der vorhandenen axillren Sprosse und Bildung von neuen Sprossen sowie Kallus. Aus einem einzigen polynodalen Explantat bildeten sich innerhalb von 34 Monaten mehr als 200 neue Sprosse. Die Bildung von neuen Sprossen zeigte sich unter den axillren Sprossen und am proximalen Ende des Blattstiels. In Subkultur verlngerten sich die neuen Sprosse oder konnten auf MS-Medium (Makroelemente -Konzentration) mit 1 % Saccharose und 0.6, 1.2 oder 5.0 mg l-1 IBA innerhalb von zwei Monaten zur Wurzelbildung induziert werden. Bei niedriger Konzentration von IBA (0.1 mg l-1) oder bei Zugabe von Phloroglucinol oder Thiamin zeigten sich keine frdernden Effekte auf die Wurzelbildung verglichen mit IBA-Behandlungen ohne Addendazugabe. Trotz der intensiven Sprossbildung der nodalen bzw. polynodalen Explantate konnte bei nodalem Kallus sowie bei Blttern keine Morphogenese nachgewiesen werden und die Differenzierung erfolgte nur bis zur Bildung von grnen globulren Strukturen.
24126468|This study focuses on the characterization of the xylem vulnerability of Asparagus officinalis L. to cavitation by calculating the drought-induced loss of hydraulic conductivity (K) per xylem water potential (xyl). This relationship is used to create vulnerability curves (VC) and to derive a drought stress threshold applicable for irrigation purposes. Three shoot treatments for generating VC and for revealing the drought resistance of this species are compared: the "diurnal transpiration treatment", the "soil drying treatment" and the "lab transpiration treatment". The "lab transpiration treatment", using excised, rehydrated and subsequently dehydrated shoots, was selected as the best method to produce VC compared to natural dehydration treatments. Using this method, VC were established for field-grown plants over the season to detect changes in xylem vulnerability with time. The cavitation resistance decreased during the period, when shoots were fully developed but not senescent. Asparagus experienced 50 % loss of K when xyl at predawn reached -0.3 MPa in July and -0.2 MPa in September. This seasonal shift of the critical xyl has to be taken into consideration for plant-based irrigation scheduling using xyl as irrigation signal.
24126192|This study was aimed to select valuable genetic resources of fig in Birecik (Urfa) situated on the Southeast part of Turkey during 1998 and 1999. Populations consisting of native fig genotypes were examined in terms of fruit, leaf and tree characteristics, and 35 genotypes were selected for future breeding efforts. Their leaves and desirable fruit characteristics were determined by comparing with 'Bursa Siyah', which has prime importance among table fig varieties in Turkey for fresh market. Some selections produced larger fruits than 'Bursa Siyah'. All genotypes showed a range of 23 to 84 g in fruit weight, 36 to 56 mm in fruit width, 30 to 56 mm in fruit length and 0.08 to 0.2 mm in peel thickness. While total soluble solid contents ranged from 12 to 21.3 %, titratable acidity changed from 0.1 to 0.4 %. In addition, all types were investigated in terms of fruit shape index, skin colour, internal colour, peel thickness, skin cracks, ribs of peel, ease of peeling, number of leaves per shoot, leaf dimensions, lobes, hairs, venation, presence of teeth, growth habit of tree and seasonal shoot growth. Many genotypes were evaluated as promising for further breeding efforts. Ziel der Untersuchung in den Jahren 1998 und 1999 war, wertvolle Genotypen der Feige in Birecik (Urfa), dem Sdosten der Trkei, zu selektieren. Die Populationen aus einheimischen Feigen-Genotypen wurden hinsichtlich Frucht-, Blatt- und Baumeigenschaften untersucht und daraus resultierend 35 Genotypen fr weitere Zchtungsschritte ausgewhlt. Als Vergleichssorte fr wnschenswerte Blatt- und Fruchtmerkmale wurde 'Bursa Siyah', die wichtigste Tafelfeigensorte auf dem trkischen Frischmarkt herangezogen. Einige Selektionen hatten grere Frchte als 'Bursa Siyah'. Alle Genotypen wiesen beim Fruchtgewicht Werte zwischen 23 und 84 g, in der Fruchtbreite zwischen 36 und 56 mm, in der Fruchtlnge zwischen 30 und 56 mm und in der Schalendicke zwischen 0.08 und 0.2 mm auf. Der Gesamtanteil lslicher Trockensubstanz betrug 1221.3 %, die titrierbare Sure 0.10.4 %. Alle Genotypen wurden hinsichtlich Fruchtformindex, Schalen- und Fruchtfleischfarbe, Schalendicke, -rissen, -rippen, Anzahl der Bltter pro Trieb, Blattgre, -lappung, -behaarung, -nerven, -zahnung, Wuchseigenschaften des Baumes und saisonalem Triebwachstum untersucht. Viele Genotypen wurden als vielversprechend fr weitere Zchtungsarbeit eingestuft.
24126716|Cinnamaldehyde (CA) is a major component of volatile oil extracted from the leaves and bark of Cinnamomum osmophloeum Kaneh. In the present study, effects of CA were investigated on the vase life of cut rose. Our results showed that CA markedly enhanced the vase life of rose by 2.8 more days in comparison to control. This increase in vase life is chiefly governed by CA induced higher activities of antioxidant enzymes POD, SOD and CAT that in turn lowered the levels of MDA. Besides that proline and soluble protein contents were also improved. Therefore, CA could be used in commercial preservatives to improve the longevity of cut rose.
24126166|The relationship between the growth of the shoot and a storage organ was studied in radish (Raphanus sativus L. var. sativus). To quantify the relationship the ratio r of the relative growth rates of the tuber dry mass and the leaf area was used. On the basis of growth data, measured on twenty-four crops in the field and growth chamber, a system analysis was carried out to test whether the determined values of this ratio can be explained as result of an optimal process. The following hypothesis was examined: The adjustment of tuber and leaf growth occurs in such a way, that the harvest stage, defined here by a certain tuber dry mass, is attained in shortest length of time. For theoretically deriving the ratio a simple growth model and optimisation procedures were used. Inputs were the measured values of net assimilation rate and specific leaf mass. In the case of describing the growth with a mean value of ratio r during the growth interval from seedling stage to harvest, the calculated values were in good accordance with the measured. But, if the ratio was allowed to vary over time only the general response could be confirmed by the calculation: at first predominant leaf growth and then transition to predominant tuber growth. In order to achieve a sufficient quantitative accordance additionally several constraints (e.g. a upper limit of the relative growth rate of the tuber) were necessary. Conclusions for further investigations were drawn from the results. Die Beziehung zwischen dem Wachstum von Spross und einem Speicherorgan wurde am Beispiel von Radies (Raphanus sativus L. var. sativus) untersucht. Als quantitative Gre fr die Darstellung der Beziehung wurde der Quotient r aus den relativen Wachstumsraten der Knollentrockenmasse und der Blattflche verwendet. Auf der Grundlage von Wachstumsdaten, gemessen an vierundzwanzig Kulturen im Freiland und in der Klimakammer, wurde eine Systemanalyse durchgefhrt, um zu prfen, ob die ermittelten Werte dieses Quotienten als Ergebnis eines optimalen Prozesses angesehen werden knnen. Geprft wurde die Hypothese: Zwischen Knollen- und Blattwachstum stellt sich eine solche Balance ein, dass das Erntestadium, definiert durch eine bestimmte Knollentrockenmasse, in krzester Zeit erreicht wird. Fr die theoretische Bestimmung des Quotienten wurde ein einfaches Wachstumsmodell zugrunde gelegt, dessen Input die beobachteten Werte der Nettoassimilationsrate und der spezifischen Blattmasse waren. Im Falle, dass das Wachstum im Zeitintervall vom Ende des Keimblattstadiums bis zur Ernte mit einem Mittelwert des Quotienten r beschrieben wird, ergab sich eine gute Ubereinstimmung der berechneten mit den gemessenen Werten. Im Falle zeitabhngiger Werte jedoch konnte lediglich das prinzipielle Verhalten besttigt werden: zu Beginn vorherrschendes Blattwachstum, danach bergang zu berwiegendem Knollenwachstum. Um eine ausreichende quantitative bereinstimmung auch hier zu erzielen, waren zustzlich mehrere Nebenbedingungen (z.B. eine obere Grenze der relativen Wachstumsrate der Knolle) notwendig. Aus den Ergebnissen wurden Vorschlge fr die Weiterfhrung der Arbeiten abgeleitet.
24126250|The purpose of this research project was to determine how mulching, specific harvesting times, and the differing weather conditions of the years involved affected the biochemical content of two Rubus family species: the raspberry (Rubus idaeus L.) 'Tomo' and the blackberry (Rubus fruticosus coll.) 'Agawam'. The appropriate data were recorded in the course of the years 20012004. The 'Tomo' and 'Agawam' fruit weight was not significantly influenced by cultivation technology, but was influenced by harvesting time and the weather conditions of the particular year involved. The fruit dry matter (DM) was directly related to the berries' harvesting time. The soluble solids content (SSC) in the raspberry fruits was 9.913.3 % and 8.916.0 % in the blackberries. The raspberry fruits' SSC was significantly influenced by cultivation technology: the SSC was higher in berries grown without mulch. The ascorbic acid content (AAC) varied over the years, and depended mostly on the particular species. The raspberry fruits' AAC was significantly influenced by cultivation technology: the AAC was higher in berries grown without mulch. The blackberry fruits' AAC was also influenced by the harvesting time, being higher in berries from the last harvesting. The differing yearly wheather conditions had a greater effect on the blackberry fruits' titratable acids (TA) content. The results indicated that fruit weight and biochemical content were primarily influenced by the differing weather conditions of the various years involved. The berries, for instance, contained more DM and soluble solids, and less TA in 2002. Cultivation technology had significant influence only on the raspberry fruits' AAC and SSC. Harvesting time had an impact on both the raspberry and the blackberry fruit weight and DM content, but the fruit SSC, AAC, and TA were affected only in the blackberry.
24126308|To investigate the effect of nitrogen on curd compactness and the onset of cauliflower bolting, (Brassica oleracea var. botrytis) greenhouse trials in nutrient solution were conducted at optimum (6.5 g plant-1) and at limiting (2.6 g plant-1) N supply. With limiting N supply, bolting started four days earlier than at optimum N supply. The transfer from limiting to optimum N supply delayed bolting by four days. The foliar application of the gibberellic acid GA3 (10 mg plant-1) and the gibberellin synthesis blocker chlorcholinchloride (CCC, 100 mg plant-1) did not affect the onset of bolting. The application of the cytokinin benzylaminopurine (BA, 40320 g plant-1) using the stem-infusion technique delayed bolting by three and four days at optimum and limiting N supply, respectively. The effect of BA increased with increasing amount of cytokinin infused. The data suggest that promoted bolting at limiting N supply might be attributed to a limited export of cytokinin from the root to the shoot due to N shortage. Der Einflu des Stickstoffangebotes (optimal, 6.5 g Pflanze-1 und suboptimal, 2.5 g Pflanze-1) auf Kopffestigkeit und Schossbeginn bei Blumenkohl wurde in Nhrlsungsversuchen im Gewchshaus untersucht. Bei suboptimalem N-Angebot setzte das Schossen vier Tage frher ein als bei optimalem N-Angebot. Der Wechsel von optimal auf suboptimales N-Angebot bei 3 cm Kopfdurchmesser verzgerte den Schossbeginn um vier Tage. Die Blattbehandlungen mit Gibberellinsure GA3 (10 mg Pflanze-1) und Chlorcholinchlorid (CCC, 100 mg Pflanze-1) als Gibberellinsynthese-Hemmer hatten keinen Einflu auf den Schossbeginn. Die Stamminfusion mit dem Cytokinin Benzylaminopurin (BA, 40320 g Pflanze-1) dagegen verzgerte den Schossbeginn um drei Tage bei optimalem bzw. um vier Tage bei suboptimalem N-Angebot. Die schossverzgernde Wirkung nahm mit steigender Cytokinin-Zufuhr zu. Die Ergebnisse lassen vermuten, dass das beschleunigte Schossen bei limitiertem N-Angebot zurckzufhren ist auf einen durch Stickstoffmangel induzierten, geringeren Export von Cytokinin aus der Wurzel in den Spro.
24126396|Fruit set limits the productivity of the tomato crop in the greenhouse. In North Mediterranean conditions two tomato crop cycles can be carried out in the same year. Environmental constraints limiting pollination in the cycles may impose the use of different pollination techniques, both from the productive and from the economical point of view. The aim of this study is to analyze whether flower vibration, bumblebee pollination, or auxin spraying, improve fruit production of early and late tomato greenhouse crops. Treatments were more effective in the early crop, carried out in spring, than in the late one in summer-autumn. For both crop cycles, the highest production was for the bumblebee pollinated plants. The mechanical flower vibration technique and the auxin treatment significantly increased production in the early crop, but they were ineffective in the late cycle crop. However, treating the early crop with auxins may result in nipple-shape fruits. Earliness was not affected by the treatments. Fruit set was improved by all treatments tested and in both crop cycles. In both seasons, the use of bumblebees was the most successful treatment, and the maximum effectiveness was observed during the periods of low night temperatures in the early cycle, when fruit set was limited due to impaired production of viable pollen and/or poor pollen release. Auxin and vibration enhancement of fruit set was higher for the early than for the late crop cycle. The environmental conditions were determinant for the effectiveness of the treatments. Moreover, the bumblebee efficiency was demonstrated not only when the climatic factors were limiting for tomato fruit set, but also when fruit-set was not limited by natural climatic conditions.
24126353|The effect of the sharka (Plum pox virus, PPV) disease on the chemical composition of leaves and fruits of the PPV tolerant apricot cultivar (cv.) 'Harcot', and on the susceptibility to the physiological disorder tip burn of the apricot cv. 'Bebeco' were studied. Leaf analysis revealed that concentrations of N and Fe were increased by 9 and 21 %, while P, K and Ca concentrations were decreased by 32, 15 and 9 %, respectively on infected trees of the cv. 'Harcot' in comparison to the control. No significant differences were observed in chemical composition of fruits from PPV-infected and healthy trees of the cv. 'Harcot'. The N/Ca and N/P ratios of leaves infected by the PPV were increased by 23.6, and 61.1 % in comparison to the control, respectively. Nitrogen and Zn concentrations of the cv. 'Harcot' were higher, K and Ca concentrations were lower, whereas P, Mg, Fe and Mn concentrations were not altered significantly in comparison to the cv. 'Bebeco'. The ratios N/P, N/Ca, K/Ca, and K+Mg/Ca in leaves and fruits of the cv. 'Bebeco' were significantly higher in comparison to the cv. 'Harcot'. In conclusion, infection of apricot trees of the cv. 'Harcot' by PPV may affect their nutrient status (especially the N/P and N/Ca ratios in leaves). Furthermore, low Ca concentration of fruits of the cv. 'Bebeco' in comparison to the cv. 'Harcot', and high ratios of N/Ca, K/Ca, K+Mg/Ca, and N/P are related with the appearance of the physiological disorder tip burn. Es wurden die Auswirkungen der Scharkakrankheit (Plum pox virus, PPV) auf die chemische Zusammensetzung von Blttern und Frchten der PPV-toleranten Aprikosensorte 'Harcot' und auf die Anflligkeit der Sorte 'Bebeco' gegenber der physiologisch-bedingten Spitzendrre untersucht. Blattanalysen von infizierten Bumen der Sorte 'Harcot' zeigten im Vergleich zur Kontrolle einen Anstieg der N- und Fe-Konzentrationen um 9 bzw. 21 %, sowie einen Rckgang der P-, K- und Ca-Konzentrationen um 32,15 und 9 %. Es konnten keine statistischen Unterschiede in der chemischen Zusammensetzung der Frchte von PPV-infizierten und gesunden Bumen der Sorte 'Harcot' festgestellt werden. Das N/Ca- und N/P-Verhltnis von PPV-infizierten Blttern erhhte sich im Vergleich zur Kontrolle um 23.6 bzw. 61.1 %. Die Stickstoff- und Zn-Konzentrationen waren bei 'Harcot' im Vergleich mit 'Bebeco' hher, die K- und Ca-Konzentrationen geringer und die P-, Mg-, Fe-, und Mn-Konzentrationen unverndert. Die N/P-, N/Ca-, K/Ca- und K+Mg/Ca-Verhltnisse in Blttern und Frchten von 'Bebeco' waren signifikant hher als die von 'Harcot'. Zusammenfassend kann gesagt werden, dass sich die Infektion von Aprikosenbumen der Sorte 'Harcot' mit PPV auf deren Ernhrungszustand (vor allem in Hinsicht auf das N/P- und das N/Ca-Verhltnis in den Blttern) auswirken kann. Des weiteren besteht ein Zusammenhang zwischen der im Vergleich zu 'Harcot' geringen Ca-Konzentration der Frchte von 'Bebeco' sowie den hohen Werten beim N/Ca-, K/Ca-, K+Mg/Ca- und N/P-Verhltnis und dem Auftreten der physiologisch-bedingten Spitzendrre.
24126634|Grafting, even for tomatoes and eggplants, can be considered a useful tool for tackling the problems of soil borne diseases. However, marked variations in plant vigour in relation to scion rootstock combinations are observed in field conditions. Among the mechanisms causing such variations, are those connected to plant nutrition; however, information on this is incomplete and limited mainly to the cucurbits species. Bearing this in mind, the purpose of this study was to verify in which ways grafting combinations in tomato and eggplant determine variations in plant assimilation and macronutrient uptake. The study was carried out on tomato ('Rita' F1) and eggplant ('Mission Bell' F1) grafted with three rootstocks (Energy, PG3 and Beaufort) and self-grafted (Control). Self-grafted tomato plants and those grafted on intraspecific rootstocks (PG3 and Energy) were less vigorous and produced less dry epigeous biomass than plants grafted on interspecific rootstock (Beaufort). However, the converse was found in eggplant when Beaufort was used, proving the interaction between scion and rootstock. Nutrient uptake per hectare differed greatly in relation to grafting combinations, particularly with regard to phosphorous, calcium and sulphur for which the variations ranged between 100 and 300 %. This variability seems related to a differing degree of nutrient absorption, expressed by varying concentrations of these in the plant tissues, as well as to the different plant vigour expressed by the biomass production. The results have allowed highlighting how, scion/rootstock combinations in tomato and eggplant can considerably affect plant growth and the content of different macronutrients; therefore, fertilization should take account of the different uptakes in relation to grafting combinations when grafted plants are used.
24126691|The influence of planting stock, storage temperature, and of greenhouse temperature on sprouting of tubers, shoot emergence, and flowering time of two Asian populations of Gloriosa superba L. was investigated. Effects of the temperature during the first weeks and the last four weeks ("preparation") of dry storage as well as of greenhouse temperature could clearly be shown. If a temperature of 10 C during the first weeks of storage was followed by high temperatures of 24 C or 32 C during preparation, the dormancy of the tubers was broken. Prolongation of storage at 10 C and temperatures of 24 C or 32 C during preparation improved sprouting of tubers and shoot emergence after planting and decreased the number of days to flowering. The 32 C treatment gave the best results. If 32 C was applied in preparation a greenhouse-temperature of 22 C as compared to 17 C did not decrease the number of days to flowering. After storage and preparation at 10 C, sprouting and time of flowering showed the poorest results. Significant differences between origins have been found regarding shoot emergence and flowering time. Possible effects of temperature treatments in storage, preparation and cultivation of Gloriosa are discussed in comparison to effects of temperature treatments on Sandersonia, Gladiolus, Freesia, and Sparaxis.
24126273|American chestnut, hybrid hazelnut and grapevine were cultured in vitro on Nas and Read Culture Medium. Micropropagated scions (shoots) were micrografted on in whro-propagated unrooted rootstocks by hand. The scions (24 cm) and rootstocks (2 3 cm) were fixed using an elastic electric-wire tube or alginate gel beads. After grafting, the bases of rootstocks were dipped in 1000 ppm indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) solution for 5 s (grapevine) or 10 s (American chestnut and hybrid hazelnut). Grafted plantlets were then cultured in Jiffy peat plugs in vitro or placed in Jiffy peat plugs ex vitro and were gradually acclimatized. Scions of in vitro cultured grafts developed aerial roots and the grafting was unsuccessful. Two months after grafting, the survival of successful ex vitro grafts was ca. 50 % for grapevine, 70 % for hazelnut, and 80 % for American chestnut. The results indicate that, when grafted plants are preferred to own-rooted plants, micropropagated scion and rootstocks can simultaneously be grafted, rooted and acclimatized ex vitro. Amerikanische Kastanien, Hybridhaselnsse und Weinreben wurden in vitro auf Nas- und Read-Medium kultiviert. Mikrovermehrte Reiser (Sprosse) wurden von Hand auf in vitro-vermehrte unbewurzelte Unterlagen mikroveredelt. Zur Fixierung von Reis (24 cm) und Unterlage (23 cm) fanden entweder Ummantelungen von Elektrokabeln oder Alginatgelklemmen Verwendung. Nach der Veredlung wurden die Unterlagen 5 s (Wein) oder 10s (Amerikanische Kastanie und Hybridhaselnuss) in 1000 ppm Indol-3-Buttersure-Lsung (IBA) getaucht. Die veredelten Pflnzchen wurden anschlieend auf Jiffy Torfblcken in vitro oder extra vitrum mit schrittweiser Akklimatisierung kultiviert. Die Reiser der in vitro-kultivierten Veredelungen entwickelten Luftwurzeln und die Veredelung misslang. Bei den extra Veredelungen betrug die Anwachsrate zwei Monate nach der Veredelung beim Wein 50 %, bei den Haselnssen 70 % und bei den Kastanien 80 %. Die Ergebnisse zeigen, dass es bei Veredelungen mglich ist, die mikrovermehrten Reiser und Unterlagen gleichzeitig zu veredeln, zu bewurzeln und extra vitrum zu akklimatisieren.
24126878|Calcium (Ca) is an essential plant nutrient affecting the cell wall structure and many cell functions. Our earlier study carried out on carrot farms indicated a positive association between high Ca content in soil and good storage quality of carrots. Based on these preliminary results, the present study was conducted with the aim to improve the Ca status of carrot plants and strengthen the storage quality of carrot roots. Ca was added to soil by applying gypsum that contained calcium sulphate (CaSO4  2H2O). Field experiments were performed on four separate farms located in southwestern Finland in 2009 and 2010. Three Ca dosages were compared: 0, 575 and 1150 kg of Ca ha-1. Soil and carrots were analyzed for their Ca contents, and the storability of carrots was measured in storage experiments at 0.5 C. Soil amendment with gypsum had minor effects on the soil Ca content, but it did not increase the Ca content of the carrot roots. The soil sulphur (S) content increased considerably, but the higher S supply in soil did not enhance the S uptake of the plant. The Ca fertilization did not improve the storage quality of carrots. However, the Ca content of carrots showed great variation between different fields. Further research is needed to investigate the significance of the nutrient status in terms of the storage quality of carrot.
24126127|The results of a quick method for the determination of the water capacity of substrates are compared with those from DIN EN 13041. The results of the quick method have a good correlation to those from DIN EN 13041 when the substrate is filled into the cylinder of the quick method with a volume weight determined according to Vdlufa (2002b). Using the quick method the water capacity is slightly underestimated. If the air capacity is calculated from the total pore space and the water capacity, the air capacity is overestimated. Die Ergebnisse einer Schnellmethode zur Bestimmung der Wasserkapazitt von Substraten werden mit denen der Methode DIN EN 13041 verglichen. Die Ergebnisse der Schnellmethode korrelieren gut mit denen der Methode DIN EN 13041, wenn das Substrat mit einem Volumengewicht in den Zylinder der Schnellmethode gefllt wird, das nach der Methodenvorschrift des Vdlufa (2002b) ermittelt wurde. Mit der Schnellmethode wird die Wasserkapazitt der Substrate geringfgig unterschtzt. Wird der Wert fr die Berechnung der Luftkapazitt verwendet, wird diese berschtzt.
24126693|The purpose of this research was to know whether xylem differentiation and microsporogenesis processes were synchronised with the dormancy cycle in apricot (Prunus armeniaca L.) flower buds. These processes were related to the dormancy breaking in three apricot cultivars with a different environmental adaptability. Cultivars were selected on the basis of their different flowering and fruiting pattern: 'San Castrese', 'Canino' and 'Orange Red'. Biological and anatomical observations were carried out during an autumn-winter season in central Italy. The three cultivars showed a great difference in flower bud endodormancy overcoming and their chilling requirement varied from low to very high. During the different dormancy phases, anatomical observations showed a continuous and regular acropetal progression of primary xylem differentiation along the flower bud axis up to the ovary. In the cultivar with a low chilling requirement ('San Castrese'), the appearance of xylem 'Stage 3' (xylem vessels up to 3/4 of bud axis) and tetrads coincided with the end of endodormancy. In cultivars with a medium and high chilling requirement ('Canino' and 'Orange Red', respectively), a desynchronism between different events (endodormancy release, xylematic differentiation and microsporogenesis) was observed. Xylem differentiation and microsporogenesis appeared in advance with respect to endodormancy breaking. This state could be one of the causes determining the low or inconstant rate of blooming of certain apricot cultivars under non native environmental conditions.
24127047|Swedish ornamental nurseries are supplying fertiliser to field crops only during the first half of the growing season, due to the concern of growers that late fertilisation will delay development of freezing tolerance. Effects of fertilisation on freezing tolerance were investigated in two climate chamber experiments. Three different fertilising strategies were used on plants of silver birch and blue holly; one treatment according to ordinary practice with all fertiliser applied within the first half of the growing season, secondly a treatment with all fertiliser almost evenly spread out over the growing season, and the third treatment as the second one but with additional potassium and phosphorus added at the end of the growing season. The total applied amount of nitrogen was the same for all treatments. The plants had a growing season of 12 weeks, followed by 6 weeks of autumn climate, simulated in the climate chamber. During the autumn period plants were tested for freezing tolerance in freezing tests. The study showed that a fertiliser strategy with an almost even distribution of a balanced fertiliser during the growing season had no negative effect on the development of frost tolerance in silver birch and blue holly. Growth and freezing tolerance showed small differences between treatments, although the rate of development of freezing tolerance seemed to be slightly faster in the third treatment. However, the results showed differences in growth and development of freezing tolerance between the experiments, indicating that other growth factors than nutrient distribution had an impact on developing freezing tolerance. Nevertheless, the results indicate that growers can even out the application of fertilisers over the entire growing season without jeopardising the development of freezing tolerance and, thus, decrease the risk for nutrient leakage to underlying soil and water table.
24126917|Broadening the genetic base of cultivated plant species is crucial for breeding. A large genetic variation exists for common bermudagrass [Cynodon dactylon (L.) Pers.] in the Mediterranean region, shown to be within the center of diversity for the species. Thus, the objective of this study was to develop turf type tetraploid bermudagrass lines. Five local hexaploid C. dactylon var. dactylon genotypes were crossed with diploid C. transvaalensis Burtt-Davy (African bermudagrass) during JuneOctober 2011. The seeds were germinated and seedlings grown in pots. Hybrid individuals were determined via sequence related amplified polymorphic (SRAP) molecular markers. Thirty four percent of the 910 seedlings were found to be true hybrids, and 60 % (182) of these were selected for their turfgrass characteristics and transplanted into the field along with commercial bermudagrass cultivars ('Riviera', 'Tifway', 'Princess 77') and parental lines at a density of four plugs per m2. The experimental design was a randomized complete block design with three replications, established at Akdeniz University, Antalya on 28 July, and Alata Horticultural Research Station, Erdemli, Mersin, Turkey on 5 August 2012. Establishment rate (plot coverage), fall colour retention, spring green up, turfgrass colour and quality, seed head density, leaf texture, and growth habit were assessed from August 2012 to September 2013. One year after establishment, the turfs were subjected to drought stress for 45 days, which was followed by resumption of irrigation for recovery of the turf. Percentage of leaf firing under drought stress, and post-drought stress turf recovery were recorded. Significant variations existed for establishment rate, growth habit (prostrate vs. upright), seed head density (0756 seed heads per m2, leaf texture (very fine to coarse), drought resistance, colour and turf quality among hybrids. Morphological and adaptive traits were significantly correlated with each other at varying magnitudes. Turfgrass quality was significantly and positively associated with spring green up (r = 0.74), leaf texture (r = 0.45), establishment rate (r = 0.53) and turf recovery after drought stress (r = 0.35), indicating possibility for indirect selection. The hybrid genotypes with superior turf characteristics and drought resistance can be used to develop new, better adapted tetraploid bermudagrass cultivars for landscaping and sports turf.
24126519|The aim of this research was to evaluate the effects of three new different agricultural bio-stimulants, based on hydrolyzed protein coming from algae (M.A.E.), animal epithelium (A.P.H.), and lucerne origin (H.S.), compared to a control treatment (distilled water) on crop cycle, stem quality and root system growth in L. A. 'Brindisi' soilless cultivation. The bio-stimulants were applied eight times both at foliar and drenching level. The three bio-stimulants gave performances similar among them and higher than the water only according to some of the parameters: the crop cycle came early, the leaves resulted more expanded in the lamina and greener, the flower buds had a higher diameter; the root system showed a higher length development. Finally stem and bulb dry weights values were higher than the control. The bio-stimulant based on animal epithelium differed, from the vegetal and the algae-based ones, in the flower buds number (same values of the control), in the fresh and dry weights of leaves, buds and stem roots (values higher than the control ones). Regarding the cut stem quality if, on the one hand, drenching application method enhanced the stem height, on the other the foliar application increased in the flower buds number. With regard to bulb roots the foliar application method promoted the highest fresh weight value. The A.RH. with foliar application, compared to the water, advanced both the harvest of nine days.
24126124|Quality changes of three strawberry cultivars ('Camarosa', 'Cavendish' and 'Chandler') packed with perforated plastic boxes during the cold storage (0 C and 9095 % relative humidity) were investigated. Weight loss of strawberries increased as a function of storage time. Strawberry fruits were firmer in cold-air storage than at harvest. Colorimeter values (L*, a*, b*, C* and h) of strawberries stored 10 days decreased in comparison to initial values in all cultivars. Titratable acidity and vitamin C (ascorbic acid) contents of fruits decreased during the storage time. While the total soluble solid content of 'Cavendish' decreased, an increase was observed in 'Chandler'. Citric acid content showed an increase depending on storage time, whereas malic acid contents fluctuated during the storage period and decreased in all cultivars at the end of storage time. The postharvest life based on sensory evaluation was 10 days for 'Camarosa', 'Cavendish' and 'Chandler' fruits stored in cold air. Untersucht wurden Qualittsnderungen bei drei Erdbeersorten ('Camarosa', 'Cavendish' und 'Chandler'), die in perforierte Plastikboxen verpackt und kbl gelagert wurden (0 C und 9095 % relative Feuchte). Die Gewichtsverluste stiegen bei den Erdbeeren in Abhngigkeit von der Lagerdauer. Die Erdbeerfrchte waren im Khllager fester als zum Zeitpunkt der Ernte. Die Colorimeter-Werte (L*, a*, b*, C* und h) aller drei Sorten waren nach 10-tgiger Lagerung geringer als zu Beginn. Der Gehalt an titrierbarer Sure und Vitamin C (Ascorbinsaure) in den Frchten verringerte sich bei der Lagerung. Whrend der Gehalt an lslicher Trockensubstanz bei 'Cavendish' geringer wurde, konnte bei 'Chandler' ein Anstieg beobachtet werden. Der Zitronensuregehalt fiel in Abhngigkeit von der Lagerdauer, wohingegen der Apfelsuregehalt whrend der Lagerung schwankte und am Lagerende bei allen Sorten reduziert war. Die sensorische Beurteilung ergab, dass bei 'Camarosa', 'Cavendish' und 'Chandler' eine 10-tgige Khllagerung ohne uere Qualittseinbue mglich ist.
24127044|To reduce losses due to microbial spoilage and to meet new food safety regulations, the optimization of postharvest treatments and storage requirements is essential in the food supply chain management. In recent years, a couple of reports have shown that treatment of several fruits with acetic acid (AA) vapour could effectively suppress fungal decay. Strawberries are one of the most perishable fruits in the market and extremely susceptible to fungal spoilage. Gray mould, caused by Botrytis cinerea, is the main reason for decay. Applications of AA vapour at a concentration of 2 mg l-1 for 30 min once, twice or three times were evaluated as fumigation treatments for strawberry disinfection. AA vapour was also applied at 4 and 6 mg l-1 for 30 min each. Triple fumigation with 2 mg l-1 AA vapour was found to be most effective treatment resulting in a 56 % reduction of decay. Alternatively, a single treatment with 6 mg l-1 AA vapour resulted in 12 % lower infection. The aerobic mesophilic bacteria plate count (initial counts: 1.9  104 cfu g-1) was only slightly affected by fumigation. Mould counts (initial counts: 2.0  105 cfu g-1) were reduced to less than 103 cfu g-1at an AA concentration of 3 mg l-1.
24126170|Growth, flowering and cold hardiness of Rhododendron jakushimanum 'Blurettia' and 'Percy Wiseman' cultivated on ebb-and-flow benches and flooded with six different nutrient solutions was compared to plants fertilized with controlled release fertilizer (2 g L-1 Osmocote 15-9-9) under overhead irrigation. The following nutrient solutions were used for fertigation 60-20-60, 120-20-60, 180-20-60, 120-40-60,120-60-60 and 120-20-120 (N-P-K levels in mg L-1). 'Blurettia' plants fertigated with the highest N level were higher then in other treatments including controlled release fertilizer but number of leaves per plant was not affected. The lowest N level decreased both height and number of leaves of 'Percy Wiseman'. In both cultivars low N level as well as fertilization with controlled release fertilizer resulted in poor flowering. Also, increased P and K levels reduced number of flowers per plant in 'Blurettia' but in 'Percy Wiseman' the opposite was true. Overall EC values of growing media were several-fold higher in pots fertigated with ebb-and-flow system then in these given overhead irrigation and fertilization with Osmocote. In contrast, pH increase in the medium was more evident under overhead irrigation. Subirrigation resulted in significant salt accumulation in the upper part of growing medium even though plants were cultivated outdoor and some leaching due to rain should be expected. Nutrient content of leaves generally reflected composition of nutrient solution. However, plants fertilized with controlled release fertilizer had relatively low P and high Ca content in leaves. High N and K levels increased cold hardiness of Rhododendron leaves compared to both low N nutrient solution as well as Osmocote treatment. Es wurden Wachstum, Blte und Frosthrte der Rhododendron-Sorten 'Blurettia' und 'Percy Wiseman' verglichen, die auf den Ebbe-Flut-Systemtischen mit Verwendung von 6 verschiedenen Nhrmedien oder unter Sprhnebel gedngt mit Langzeitdnger (2 g L-1 Osmocote Exact 15-9-9) angebaut wurden. Fr die Fertigation wurden folgende Nhrmedien verwendet: 60-20-60, 120-20-60, 180-20-60, 120-40-60, 120-60-60 und 120-20-120 (N-P-K in mg L-1). Die Pflanzen der Sorte 'Blurettia', die mit dem hchsten N-Gehalt gedngt wurden, waren hher als alle anderen Kombinationen einschlielich der mit Langzeitdnger. Die Anzahl Bltter pro Pflanze war fr alle Kombinationen gleich. Der niedrigste N-Gehalt verminderte bei 'Percy Wiseman' nicht nur die Pflanzenhhe, sondern auch die Anzahl Bltter. Bei beiden Sorten fhrten niedriger N-Gehalt wie auch Langzeitdngung zu schwacher Blte. Die Erhhung von P und K verursachte bei der Sorte 'Blurettia' eine Verringerung der Bltenknospen, wohingegen bei 'Percy Wiseman' eine umgekehrte Tendenz festgestellt wurde. Der mittlere EC-Wert der Substrate in den Pflanzentpfen auf den Ebbe-Flutsystem-Tischen war um ein mehrfaches hher als der in den mit Osmocote gedngten und beregneten Tpfen. Im Gegensatz dazu war der Anstieg des pH-Wertes des Substrates bei der Beregnung viel deutlicher. Die Bewsserung auf den Ebbe-Flut-Systemtischen hat dazu beigetragen, dass sich in der oberen Substratschicht Salze akkumuliert haben, obgleich die Pflanzen im Freiland angebaut wurden und man annehmen konnte, dass der Regen diese auswaschen wrde. Die Nhrstoffgehalte in den Blttern entsprachen denen des Substrats. Es wurde aber festgestellt, dass, die mit Langzeitdnger gedngten Pflanzen ziemlich geringe P-Gehalte und hohe Ca-Gehalte in den Blttern aufgewiesen. Der hohe N- und P-Gehalt erhhte die Frosthrte der Rhododendronbltter im Vergleich zu Nhrmedien mit niedrigem N-Gehalt und zu der Kombination mit Osmocote.
24126204|In poinsettia plants (Euphorbia pulcherrima Willd ex Klotsch) the periclinal chimeric structure was demonstrated in two cultivars, 'Lilo Pink' and 'Marbella Marble', by gamma-ray treatment of the meristems. Ionizing radiation killed cells in L1 of meristems and cells from L2 (L1), which in turn were displaced by cells from L3 (L2). When the plants were induced to flower, these displacements resulted in red sectors in the pink bracts of 'Lilo Pink' and pink sectors in the marble bracts of 'Marbella Marble'. The outermost cell layer of pink bracts and of pink regions in marble bracts obviously contained anthocyanin even though these cell layers are reported to have the genotype for anthocyanin-free (white). When ten-week-old poinsettia plants were decapitated, in vivo adventitious shoots were produced on the cut surface of the excised stems. Averages of 14 and 19 adventitious shoots per plant were obtained with the periclinal chimeric cultivars 'Marbella Marble' and 'Lilo Pink', respectively. Most of the adventitious shoots, which were induced to flower, developed red bracts, which indicated the formation of adventitious shoots from stem tissue derived from L3 (the corpus) of the apical meristem. Only two adventitious shoots showed sign of a chimeric structure. The decapitation method is a very simple and low-cost method to produce adventitious shoots from poinsettia. Phytoplasma is carried from the mother plants to the adventitious shoots and thus the plants retain free-branching characteristics. In Poinsettien (Euphorbia pulcherrima Willd ex Klotsch) konnte die periklinalchimrische Struktur der zwei Sorten 'Lilo Pink' and 'Marbella Marble' durch Bestrahlung der Meristeme mit Gammastrahlen nachgewiesen werden. Ionisierende Strahlung ttete Zellen der L1 und auch der L2 des Meristems ab, welche wiederum von Zellen der L3 ersetzt wurden. Nach der Blteninduktion resultierte dieser Ersatz in roten Sektoren bei den rosa Brakteen von 'Lilo Pink' und rosa Sektoren bei den marmorierten Brakteen von 'Marbella Marble'. Die uerste Zellage der rosa Brakteen und die rosa Regionen in den marmorierten Brakteen enthielt offenbar Anthocyane, obwohl berichtet wurde, dass diese Zellagen den Genotyp "anthocyan-frei (wei) haben. Nach dem Stutzen 10 Wochen alter Poinsettien in vivo wurden an der Schnittflche des abgeschnittenen Stamms Adventitivtriebe gebildet. Eine durchschnittliche Anzahl von 14 bzw. 19 Adventivtrieben pro Pflanze wurde bei den periklinalchimrischen Sorten 'Marbella Marble' und 'Lilo Pink' erhalten. Die meisten Adventivtriebe, die Blten induzierten, entwickelten rote Brakteen, was zeigt, dass die Bildung der Adventitivtriebe von der L3 (Corpus) des Apikalmeristems abgeleitet ist. Nur zwei Adventivtriebe zeigten Anzeichen von Chimrstruktur. Das Stutzen ist eine sehr einfache und kostengnstige Methode Adventivtriebe von Poinsettien zu produzieren. Das Phytoplasma wird von den Mutterpflanzen zu den Adventivtrieben bertragen, wodurch die Pflanzen das Merkmal der guten Verzeigung beibehalten.
24126302|There is still a lack of information about the actual critical points of the industrial fresh-processing chain and on the current and feasible advances in the technologies to successfully preserve the minimally fresh processed (or fresh-cut) vegetable products. It is known that the minimal fresh-processing industry continuously needs to improve their technical support by renewing the processing lines as well as by introducing emerging and alternative preservation techniques, which reduce production losses and provide safer and higher quality products. In this work, an exhaustive review was done to put together information about the most critical points throughout all the stages of the production chain and storage conditions of minimally fresh processed leafy vegetables which determine their final microbial and sensory quality. The first part of the review includes an extensively discussion about the critical points of the production chain of fresh processed leafy vegetables such as cutting and washing. Recent improvements in washing and sanitizing agents such as chlorine, ozone, hydrogen peroxide, chlorine dioxide and antioxidant solutions, and their advantages and disadvantages are evaluated. The second part of this report is focused on the evaluation of feasible emerging preservation techniques such as superatmospheric O2 atmospheres, hot water treatments and UV-C radiation, as alternatives to the conventional ones to improve the final microbial quality and to extend the sensorial quality of minimally fresh processed vegetables. Es bestehen immer noch Informationsdefizite hinsichtlich derzeit auftretender kritischer Punkte in der industriellen Verarbeitungskette sowie hinsichtlich aktueller und potentieller Fortschritte in den Methoden zur erfolgreichen Qualittserhaltung von frischen minimal-bearbeiteten Blattgemsen. Es ist bekannt, dass die minimal-bearbeitende Industrie ihre technische Ausstattung sowohl durch Erneuerung von Bearbeitungsablufen als auch durch die Einfhrung neu entstehender und alternativer Qualittserhaltungstechniken, die die Produktionsverluste verringern und sicherere und bessere Qualitt liefern, stndig verbessern muss. In dieser Arbeit wurde ein ausfhrlicher Uberblick an Informationen ber die kritischsten Punkte in den einzelnen Stufen der Bearbeitungskette und in den Lagerbedingungen von minimal-bearbeiteten Blattgemsen zusammengestellt, die letztendlich ber ihre mikrobielle und sensorische Qualitt entscheiden. Der erste Teil des berblicks beinhaltet eine umfassende Diskussion ber kritische Punkte in der Bearbeitungskette wie dem Zerkleinern und Waschen. Aktuelle Verbesserungen bei den Wasch- und Desinfektionsagenzien wie Chlor, Ozon, Wasserstoffperoxid, Chlordioxid und Antioxidationslsungen sowie ihre Vor- und Nachteile werden beurteilt. Im zweiten Teil der Arbeit steht die Beurteilung von neu hinzugekommenen Konservierungstechniken wie der superatmosphrischen O2-Atmosphre, der Heiwasserbehandlung und der UV-C-Bestrahlung, die als Alternativen zu den herkmmlichen Techniken die mikrobielle und sensorische Endqualitt von minimal-bearbeiteten Blattgemsen verbessern knnen.
24126795|In this study, the impact of scion/rootstock combinations on the composition of carotenoids and fruit firmness during three ripening stages was investigated. Two tomato cultivars were assessed as scions: 'Amati F1', and 'Gardel F1', grafted on two rootstocks: 'Body F1' and 'Robusta F1'. To evaluate the effect of grafting and ripening stages on firmness and colour evolution of tomato fruits, the lightness coefficient L* and a*/b* index were monitored in tomatoes, harvested at technological ripening stages (orange to light red and red). The effect of scion/rootstock combinations on the coloration of fruits was more pronounced than on the firmness of fruits. Significandy lower a*/b* ratio and higher L* values were measured on fruits from 'Body F1' rootstock, which could indicate slower ripening compared to 'Robusta F1' rootstock and non-grafted plants. Fruit firmness was only significantly affected by the scion cultivars and ripening stages. In tomato fruit, three carotenoids were detected; lycopene represented the major, -carotene the second prevailing and lutein the minor carotenoid. Grafting significantly affected the composition of carotenoids in fruits of 'Amati F1' scion, where a significant increase of lycopene and a decrease of -carotene were measured in fruits correlated with a change from orange to red colour. The composition of carotenoids in tomato fruit is usually under genetic control, which was confirmed also in our study. However, our results also indicate that the levels of carotenoids and their composition can additionally be affected by scion/rootstock regulation and ripening stages.
24126126|The responses of pepper anthers to different concentrations of silver nitrate and in dependence of the donor plant growing conditions were studied for haploid embryo production via anther culture. U-247 and U-238 genotypes, which were selected from a local paprika pepper population, were used as plant materials. Flower buds were collected from the plants grown either in greenhouse or in open field conditions. Four different silver nitrate concentrations (5, 10, 15 and 20 mg l-1) were tested. Haploid embryos were obtained from all the concentrations tested, but with different production rates. The highest embryo formation (45.7 embryos per 100 anthers) was obtained from the genotype U-247 in the medium containing 15 mg l-1 silver nitrate. The anthers taken from the plants grown in the greenhouse produced more embryos than that of the open field conditions. In dieser Arbeit wurden die Wirkungen unterschiedlicher Silbernitrat-Konzentrationen in Kombination mit den Kulturbedingungen der Spenderpflanze auf die Bildung haploider Embryonen aus Paprikaantheren in vitro untersucht. Als Pflanzmaterial dienten ausgewhlte Genotypen (U-247 und U-238) einer lokalen Paprika-Population. Die Bltenknospen wurden sowohl von Gewchshaus- als auch von Freilandpflanzen genommen. Im Versuch wurden vier unterschiedliche Silbernitrat-Konzentrationen (5, 10, 15 und 20 mg l-1) getestet. Haploide Embryonen wurden bei allen getesteten Konzentrationen allerdings in unterschiedlichen Mengen produziert. Die von Gewchshauspflanzen entnommenen Antheren bildeten mehr Embryonen als die aus dem Freiland. Die hchste Embryonenproduktion (45,7 Embryonen pro 100 Antheren) wurde von Antheren des Genotyps U-247 auf einem Medium mit 15 mg l-1 Silbernitrat erzielt.
24126100|Tomato (Lycopersicum esculentum Mill.) seed lots harvested 60, 70, 80 and 90 and 50, 60, 70 and 80DAA (days after anthesis) in 1998 and 1999, respectively, were treated with controlled hydration at 25C for 26 h. Following drying, treated and untreated seeds were incubated (at 25C) and emerged (in peat moss) in lOOmM NaCI in order to assess the effect of the treatment on germination (total, normal and abnormal germination) and seedling growth (emergence, mean emergence time, seedling fresh and dry weight, hypocotyl and cotyledon length) in saline conditions. Na and Cl contents of the treated and untreated seedlings were also determined. The treatment enhanced normal germination, emergence, mean germination time, seedling fresh and dry weights, hypocotyl and cotyledon length, compared with untreated seeds. Treated seeds produced seedlings that had higher Na and CI contents compare with control under salt stress. Results indicated that controlled-hydration treatment increased resistance to salt stress in all developmental stages. Saatgut von Tomaten (Lycopersicum esculentum Mill.), das 1998 60, 70, 80 oder 90 und 1999 50, 60, 70 oder 80DAA (Tage nach Bltenffnung) geerntet worden war, wurde 26 Stunden lang bei 25C einer kontrollierten Hydratisierungsbehandlung unterzogen. Nach der Trocknung wurden behandelte und unbehandelte Samen bei 25C inkubiert und zum Auflaufen (in Sphagnum) in 100 mM NaCI-Lsung verbracht, um die Wirkung der salinen Bedingungen auf die Keimung (Gesamt-, normale und abnorme Keimung) und das Keimlingswachstum (Keimrate, durchschnittliche Keimdauer, Keimlingsfrisch- und -trockengewicht, Hypokotyl- und Kotyledonenlnge) zu untersuchen. Auerdem wurde der Na- und Cl-Gehalt der behandelten und unbehandelten Smlinge bestimmt. Die Vorbehandlung steigerte im Vergleich zur Kontrolle die normale Keimung, die Keimrate, die durchschnittliche Keimdauer, das Keimlingsfrischund -trockengewicht sowie die Hypokotyl- und Kotyledonenlnge. Das vorbehandelte Saatgut brachte unter Salzstress Smlinge mit hheren Na- und Cl-Gehalten hervor. Die hier dargestellten Ergebnisse weisen darauf hin, dass die kontrollierte Hydratisierungsbehandlung die Resistenz der Smlinge gegen Salzstress in allen Entwicklungsstadien erhht.
24126859|'Fuji' apple (Malus  domestica Borkh) is a popular cultivar due to its superior flavour, texture, and storability; however, poor fruit colour of this cultivar is a major problem worldwide. The objective of this study was to investigate effects of five 'Fuji' strains on yield (in 7 years) and fruit harvest-time quality attributes (in 6 years) under climate conditions of Intermountain West region of the United States. The strains were: 'Beni Shogun Fuji', 'Naga Fu 12 Fuji', 'Sun Fuji', "T.A.C. 114 Fuji', and Torres Fuji' on M.9 T337 rootstock. 'Sim Fuji' often had lower fruit weight than other strains. Strains differed widely with respect to their fruit peel colour. In general, fruits of'Sun Fuji' and "T.A.C. 114 Fuji' always had less but 'Beni Shogun Fuji' had more red colour than other strains. Torres Fuji' also tended to have slightly higher colour than some strains. Fruit of 'Beni Shogun Fuji' had higher starch degradation pattern than other strains because this strain matured earlier. 'Beni Shogun' also had higher sunburn and surface cracks but lower watercore than all other strains. Considering all yield and quality attributes at harvest, 'Beni Shogun Fuji' was a great choice for an early strain.
24126459|South African Iridaceae contain many genera with a high potential for new floricultural crops. This potential was accessed in four geophytic species of the genera Freesia, Sparaxis and Tritonia, native to the Cape Floral Region which are winter growing and spring flowering in the Southern Hemisphere. If forced as pot plants for the European autumn and winter months, their low temperature requirements during cultivation could represent substantial energy savings. The aim of this study was to evaluate and compare temperature and light intensity requirements of the chosen species when subjected to selected forcing regimes for pot plant production under Central European conditions. The trials focused on the following aspects: export during corm dormancy, storage conditions after export, forcing experiments at different periods of the year in Berlin and general cultivation requirements of the different species/hybrid. These were compared to Freesia  hybrida, a well known geophytic ornamental crop originating from South Africa, although mostly grown as a cut flower. Results were obtained by regular monitoring of inflorescence initiation in the shoot apex meristem as well as of the plant development. The export of dormant corms from South Africa proved to be uncomplicated as their dormancy could be further maintained by subsequent storage at temperatures above 20 C. Temperature during forcing was found to be the main factor affecting flowering after planting. The species varied in their sensitivity to growth temperatures above 20 C, but generally cultivation at 13 C at night was essential, with temperatures of 17 C and above possible during the day. During the Central European summer months, inflorescences in the terminal bud failed to completely develop or flower primordia were aborted within the corm due to the high growth temperatures. Also, low natural light levels during European autumn months increased flower abortion of the investigated species. A reduction in plant height and enhanced flowering could be achieved for some species by specific storage regimes.
24126672|Besides to conventional fertiliser use, organic and low-input technologies are being increasingly used for soil management in vegetable production. However, different factors operating during crop growth (i.e. the pre-harvest factors) and related to soil properties may affect yield and quality of vegetable crops. The present research aimed to study how different soil management regimes influence soil physical and chemical properties and how these affect yield and some quality traits of two major vegetable crops. We focused on lettuce, a major crop in the area under both conventional and organic production, and on cherry tomato, which is increasingly grown in organic vegetable systems. The soil management systems were: conventional (CM), following recommended fertilisation rates; low input (LI), using minimum fertilisation rates as needed; and organic, including manure application (MA) and incorporation of oat as green manure (GM) and of maize residues (MR). Preliminary results indicate that after 7 years of rotating vegetable crops soil properties tended to improve with some systems: e.g. lower bulk density and higher porosity with MA; higher cation exchange capacity (CEC) with MA and CM. After these 7-year pre-treatments, significant differences in crop growth and yields were observed for cherry tomato and lettuce grown under different production systems, but not for the overall quality indicators. The highest yields of cherry tomato were achieved with CM and MA, due to increased number of fruits per plant, with no differences in fruit weight. Lettuce yields were generally higher with CM compared to LI, although the effect was different for different types of lettuce: the leafy type produced higher yields per area whereas the Latin type produced heavier individual plants. Under organic soil management systems, the relative survival and the visual quality of the Latin type was reduced by Botrytis cinerea infections. The results of the study indicated that plots that underwent long-term applications of 15 t ha-1 manure every two years produced similar yields than conventional systems and had comparable soil fertility attributes. However, the visual quality of the end product may be affected under organic systems. As observed for lettuce, cultivar choice may also play a role, since some lettuce types appeared to be more suitable for such systems than others.
24126291|Flowering plants were regenerated from in vitro grown leaves of miniature rose (Rosa hybrida L. 'Linda') via somatic embryogenesis. Sufficient amounts of callus were produced on in vitro leaves of 8 cultivars ('Leonie', 'Linda', 'Sonja', 'Toledo', 'Tiffany', 'Mette', 'Etna' and 'Andromeda') incubated on MS media fortified with either 45.2 or 90.5 M 2,4- dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) for 6 weeks. Except for 'Tiffany' and 'Andromeda', embryogenic callus was induced on the callus of all cultivars incubated on MS media supplemented with different concentrations of zeatin or thidiazuron (TDZ). The highest frequency of primary somatic embryogenesis (30 %) was achieved with 'Sonja' on medium containing 22.7 M TDZ, but the embryos from 'Sonja' failed to develop into plants. Only the somatic embryos of 'Linda' developed into flowering plants thus further work was carried out with this cultivar. The frequency of primary somatic embryogenesis in 'Linda' was 3.3 % on medium containing either 45.6 M zeatin or 45.4 M TDZ. The highest proliferation rate (3.8-fold) and the highest frequency of embryo maturation (76.6 %) were obtained on 1/2 MS medium fortified with 7.57 M abscisic acid. Germination and subsequent shoot development on mature somatic embryos occurred in a medium containing 1.42 M 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), 17.76 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP) and 1.44 M gibberellic acid (GA3). Shoots were rooted on 1/2 MS medium supplemented with 5.7 M 3-indole acetic acid (IAA) and 9.84 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) and transferred to the greenhouse. The plants flowered after about 10 weeks and were morphologically indistinguishable from the original plant.
24126682|Coriander (Coriandrum sativum L.) belonging to Apiaceae family is one of the essential oil and spice plants in the world. Developmental stage at harvest is an important factor influencing seed yield and essential oil quality in coriander because of the changes during maturation period in fruits. This research was conducted in order to investigate adaptation and suitable harvesting stage in two coriander varieties (var. vulgare Alef. and var. microcarpum DC.) during 1999 and 2000 in temperate climatic conditions of the Central Black Sea region (Tokat) in Turkey. Field study was designed as a randomised block with a split-plot arrangement. Varieties were harvested at six different harvesting stages, from unripe-fruit periods to over ripened periods. The results indicated that var. microcarpum of coriander was more suitable for mild temperate climatic conditions of Central Black Sea Region. Brown-fruit stage in fruit developmental stage (45 days in var. vulgare and 40 days in var. microcarpum after the flowering) was suitable for harvesting stage. Both early and late harvesting stages caused yield losses and lower linalool content.
24126440|Godronia canker (Godronia cassandrae f. sp. vaccinii) is a severe disease in young plantings of highbush blueberry (Vaccinium corymbosum L.) in Norway. In Europe, only the imperfect stage (Topospora myrtillii) has been reported, and thus conidia produced in pycnidia are assumed to be important for dissemination of the fungus. The seasonal pattern of production of conidia was investigated in a commercial planting of 'Jersey' in 1998 and a research planting of 'Bluecrop' in 1998 to 2000. The disease became apparent in March on shoots infected the preceding growing season, and lesions started to form pycnidia containing conidia in April. Samples of stems with distinct lesions of Godronia canker were collected from the bushes every two to three weeks from early spring to autumn. Stem pieces with lesions were shaken in water to release conidia from the pycnidia, and the numbers of conidia were determined by microscopy. Conidia were present throughout the growing season, but the highest numbers occurred during May, with 106 to more than 107 conidia per lesion. The numbers generally decreased during July to 20% or less of that found in May, and decreased further during September to around 4%. Ability to germinate remained high throughout the period conidia were trapped, from April to November/December. Options to manage the disease are discussed.
24126475|Eight tomato cultivars of different origin were evaluated for heat tolerance. Plants were grown in growth chambers under two temperature regimes (37/27 C or 37/22 C day/night). Variations in leaf gas exchange rate as well as the vegetative growth and reproductive development in response to heat stress were investigated. Heat tolerant cultivars showed higher photosynthetic rate under heat stress conditions at the different growth stages in comparison to the heat sensitive ones. Photosynthetic rate increases from the vegetative stage, peaks at the flowering and declines at the late fruiting stage. The reproductive processes in tomato were more sensitive to high temperatures than the vegetative ones. Number of pollen grains, fruit set percentage and fruits fresh weight produced by the heat tolerant cultivars were higher than those produced by the heat sensitive ones. Night temperature had an effect on the number of pollen grains produced and released and fruit set percentage. A positive correlation between the photosynthetic rate and fruit set was observed.
24126300|Four different NaCl concentrations in the irrigation water, 0.8, 5, 10 and 15 mM, were applied as experimental treatments to cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.) grown in a closed hydroponic system. These treatments were attained by automatically injecting the required amounts of NaCl into irrigation water containing 0.8 mM NaCl, whenever water was mixed with fertilizers and drainage solution to prepare fresh irrigation solution. Initially, the Na+ and Cl- concentrations increased rapidly in both the fresh nutrient solution supplied to the crop and the drainage water, but they were stabilized to maximal levels depending on the treatment 4555 days after initiation of solution recycling. It was concluded that the Na+ and Cl- concentrations in the root zone were maximized as soon as the Na/water and Cl/water uptake ratios reached equal levels with the NaCl concentration in the irrigation water. Based on these data, relationships between the Na/water or Cl/water uptake ratios and the NaCl concentration in the root zone were established. The leaf Na+ and Cl- concentrations were influenced by both the external Na+ and Cl- concentrations and the season. The Cl:Na uptake ratio (mol basis) was higher than 1 at low external NaCl concentrations but decreased below 1 as salinity increased, thereby indicating a more rapid decline in the ability of the plant to exclude Na+ from the leaves as compared to that for Cl-. In einem Gewchshausversuch mit Gurken, die in geschlossenen Hydrokultursystemen angebaut wurden, enthielt das mit der Sickernhrlsungen gemischte Bewsserungswasser 0,8, 5, 10 oder 15 mM NaCl. Die vier obengenanten Behandlungen wurden durch automatischen Zusatz der bentigten Mengen von NaCl zu Wasser mit einem Gehalt von 0,8 mM NaCl erzielt. Die Na+- und Cl--Konzentrationen erhhten sich bald nach Aktivierung der geschlossenen Systeme sowohl in der Frisch- als auch in der Sickernhrlsung drastisch. Nach einer anfnglichen Steigungsphase reduzierten sich aber die Na+- und Cl--Anreicherungsraten in allen Nhrlsungen stufenweise bis auf Null. Dies fhrte 4555 Tage nach Aktivierung der geschlossenen Systeme zur Stabilisierung der Na+- und Cl--Konzentrationen in allen Frisch- und Sickernhrlsungen auf bestimmten Hchstniveaus, deren Hhe von den Behandlungen abhngig war. Die fortlaufende Anreicherung von Na+ und Cl- in den geschlossenen Systemen wurde auf die Angleichung der Na/Wasser- und Cl/Wasser-Verhltnisse mit der entsprechenden NaCl-Konzentration im Bewsserungswasser zurckgefhrt. Die gemessenen Hchstwerte der Na+- und Cl--Konzentrationen in den Sickernhrlsungen und die entsprechenden NaCl-Konzentrationen im Wasser ergaben mittels Regressionsanalyse ein Model, das die Schtzung der Na+- und Cl--Aufnahmeraten von Gurken in Abhngigkeit von der NaCl-Konzentration im Wurzelraum ermglicht. Die Na+- und Cl--Blattkonzentrationen wurden sowohl bei nderungen in der NaCl-Konzentration im Wurzelraum, als auch von der Jahreszeit beeinflusst. Das Cl:Na-Aufnahmeverhltnis, bezogen auf Mol, das bei verhltnismig geringen NaCl-Konzentration im Wurzelraum hher als 1 war, unterschritt diesen Grenzwert sobald die Salzkonzentration im Wurzelraum ber ein bestimmtes Niveau anstieg. Dieses Ergebnis weist auf eine schneller abnehmende Ausschlussfhigkeit der Gurkenpflanze fr Na+ als fr Cl- bei steigenden NaCl-Konzentrationen im Nhrmedium hin.
24126320|In this study, relationships between rooting capability and the changes of endogenous IAA and ABA hormone levels during rooting of hardwood cuttings of 5 BB, 41 B, and 420 A grapevine rootstocks were studied by RP-HPLC. The chromatographic method that we developed was used for the separation and determination of these hormones. For this purpose, the mobile phase composition was optimised in order to separate IAA (indole-3-acetic acid) and ABA (abscisic acid). Mobile phase was optimised by establishing relationships between retention parameters and single solvent polarity parameter. pH measurements in acetonitrile-water binary mixtures were carried out by using IUPAC rules. Different levels of IAA and ABA substances correspond to the different rooting ability of 5 BB, 41 B and 420 A hardwood cuttings. Low IAA and high ABA levels were detected in cuttings of 41 B and 420 A having low rooting rate, whereas high IAA and low ABA levels were detected in cuttings of 5 BB, having high rooting rate in dormant stage. In general, endogenous IAA increased, while ABA decreased during rooting process. It was found that there was a positive correlation between IAA level and rooting rate, but a negative correlation between ABA level and rooting rate. In dieser Untersuchung wurden die Zusammenhnge zwischen der Bewurzelungsfahigkeit und dem endogenen IAA- und ABA-Hormongehalt whrend der Wurzelbildung von Steckhlzern von 5BB, 41 B, und 420 A Rebenwurzelstcken mittels RP-HPLC ermitteln. Das hierfr entwickelte Chromatographieverfahren diente der Trennung und Bestimmung dieser Hormone. Fr diesen Zweck wurde die Zusammensetzung der mobilen Phase fr die Trennung von IAA (Indolessigsure) und ABA (Abscisinsure) optimiert. Diese Optimierung erfolgte dadurch, dass Beziehungen zwischen Retentionsparametern und den Polarittsparametern von Lsungsmitteln hergestellt wurden. Die pH-Messungen in der Acetonitril-Wasser-Mischung wurde nach IUPAC-Richtlinien durchgefhrt. Die verschiedenen IAA- und ABA-Konzentrationen entsprechen den Unterschieden in der Bewurzelungsfahigkeit der 5 BB-, 41B- und 420 A-Steckhlzer. Geringe IAA- und hohe ABA-Konzentrationen fanden sich in 41B- und 420 A-Steckhlzern mit geringer Bewurzelungsrate, wohingegen hohe IAA- und geringe ABA-Gehalte in 5 BB-Steckhlzern festgestellt wurden, die whrend der Ruhephase eine hohe Bewurzelungsfahigkeit aufweisen. Im allgemeinen nimmt der endogene IAA-Gehalt in der Bewurzelungsphase zu, whrend der ABA-Gehalt abnimmt. Zwischen IAA-Gehalt und Bewurzelungsrate konnte eine positive zwischen ABA-Gehalt und Bewurzelungsrate eine negative Korrelation festgestellt werden.
24126467|It is known that in the phenophase of crops exists several correlations. Former studies showed that the flowering stage was significantly correlated with the maturing stage in a negative manner and that the flowering stage could be used as the basis for early identification of the future fruit maturing stage. To study the correlation between the flowering stage and the maturing stage in pears, 113 pear varieties and 3 cross combinations consisting of 165 hybrid seedlings were used as materials to study the correlation between the flowering stage and the maturing stage in pears. The results showed that, in pears, there was a tendency that the later the flowering, the earlier the maturing, and that the florescence of very early flowering was significant later than middle and late maturity varieties. There was significant negative correlation between flowering period and fruit maturing period of 113 varieties. However, there was no correlativity in four maturity types, very early maturity, early maturity, middle maturity and late maturity, and the three cross combinations got the same results. The relatively centralized maturing stage of hybrid seedlings may constitute the main reason for the insignificant correlation between the flowering stage and the maturing stage thereof. So, florescence can't be used to predict maturity in not extensive segregation cross combination.
24126656|Open-pollinated (OP) processing tomato cultivars are preferred in Turkey by resource-poor farmers. Seven seed or tomato paste companies (14 % of the total) were found to be still distributing OP seeds. Seed samples of 38 different seedlots from a total of 6 cultivars ('C-37', 'Interpeel', 'Rio Fuego', 'Rio Grande', 'T2 Improved' and 'VF 6203') were collected. Only 68.4 % of the seed sources (26 seedlots) were free of seed-borne viral (tomato mosaic virus) or bacterial (Clavibacter michiganensis subsp. michiganensis) pathogens. In replicated field trials, conducted in the districts of Karacabey (Marmara Region) and Muradiye (Aegean Region), seedlots of OP cultivars were generally inferior to Fi hybrids ('Brixy', 'NDM 055' and 'Shasta') in yield and technological traits. In principal component (PC) analysis, F1 hybrids were the most separated group, while the phenotypes of some OP seedlots were more heterogenic. Hybrids were mainly separated by the 1st PC axis which mainly contains yield and Brix  yield (BY). Besides source-specific genetic differences, high degrees of phenotypic variances for yield were also present within most seedlots. Cultivar purity is apparently lost following many seed multiplication cycles carried out by the seed companies and/or the farmers. A comparison of selected populations with their original populations revealed that selection significantly increased yield and BY in all cultivars. Possibilities for genetic re-improvement are also discussed.
24126820|An investigation was carried out to study the effects of wood type (semi-hardwood and hardwood) and spermine (Spm) application on rooting and growth of Damask rose (Rosa damascena) and Musk rose (R. moschata) cuttings. The bases of cuttings were soaked in aqueous solutions containing 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4 mM Spm (plus 200 mg L-1 IBA in each concentration) for 24 hr and then were placed in greenhouse benches containing rooting medium under intermittent mist. In Damask rose, the highest rooting percentage (91.50 %), number of roots per rooted cutting (2.58), and root length (8.64 cm) were obtained for hardwood cuttings at 2 mM Spm. Shoot length was not significantly affected by Spm application. In Musk rose, the highest rooting percentage (66.25 %) and root length (5.21 cm) were observed in hardwood cuttings at 3 mM Spm. Semihardwood cuttings treated with 3 mM Spm showed the highest number of roots per rooted cutting (1.91). The highest shoot length (24.53 cm) was obtained on hardwood cuttings at 4 mM Spm. Overall, in both species, hardwood cuttings treated with 2 to 3 mM Spm, showed the best rooting and growth in the presence of a uniform 200 mg L-1 IBA which can be useful for propagators of these rose species.
24126434|The efficacy of CO2 enrichment for greenhouse production of woody plants has received scant attention. We present the results of studies to test the hypothesis that CO2 enrichment would increase the growth of vegetatively-propagated olive trees during greenhouse production during winter in a Mediterranean climate. One-month-old rooted cuttings of Olea europaea 'Arbequina' were grown for three months in greenhouses that were maintained at ambient CO2 concentrations or enriched to CO2 concentrations of 500 or 750 mol mol-1. CO2 enrichment at either level enhanced growth, with no differences in effects of the two elevated CO2 concentrations. Enrichment of greenhouse air to 500 mol mol-1 did not increase the growth rate of one-year-old trees in comparison to that of plants grown at the ambient CO2 concentration. Use of CO2 enrichment can facilitate rapid nursery production of olive trees during the winter season under Mediterranean conditions.
24126101|Onion (Allium cepa var. cepa; cv. 'Sherpa', type Rijnsburger) bulbs were stored for 36 weeks at 2C under different oxygen concentrations (0.5, 1.0 and 21%). Samples were collected after 9, 18, 27 and 36 weeks of storage. Water-soluble carbohydrates, respectively fructans were analysed using anion exchange chromatography combined with pulsed amperometric detection. Concentrations of total water-soluble carbohydrates in onion bulbs were different only for sampling dates after 27 and 36 weeks of storage. The reduction in water-soluble carbohydrates was highest during storage at 21% oxygen and lowest during storage at 0.5% oxygen. The reason for this effect was a reduced breakdown of fructans during low oxygen storage indicated by the fructan concentration and the degree of polymerisation. Our experiments' results suggest that vegetable crops containing higher concentrations of fructans are principally suitable for low oxygen storage. Speisezwiebel (Allium cepa var. cepa; Sorte 'Sherpa', Typ Rijnsburger) wurde ber einen Zeitraum von 36 Wochen bei 2C und unterschiedlichen Sauerstoffkonzentrationen (0,5, 1,0 und 21%) gelagert. Die Probennahme erfolgte nach 9-, 18-, 27und 36-wchiger Lagerung. Wasserlsliche Kohlenhydrate, insbesondere Fruktane, wurden mittels Anionen-Austausch-Chromatographie und gepulster amperometrischer Detektion analysiert. Unterschiede in den Konzentrationen der wasserlslichen Kohlenhydrate in den Bulben der Speisezwiebeln konnten erst nach einer Lagerdauer von 27 und 36 Wochen nachgewiesen werden. Die Abnahme der wasserlslichen Kohlenhydrate whrend der Lagerung war bei einer Lageratmosphre mit 21 % Sauerstoff am hchsten und bei einer Lageratmosphre mit 0,5% Sauerstoff am geringsten. Der Ursache dieses Effekts lag im verringerten Fruktanabbau bei der Lagerung unter reduzierter Sauerstoffkonzentration, was sich in hheren Fruktankonzentrationen und Polymerisierungsgraden der Fruktane manifestierte. Die Ergebnisse unserer Versuche legen den Schluss nahe, dass Gemsearten mit entsprechend hohen Fruktankonzentrationen grundstzlich fr die Lagerung bei niedrigen Sauerstoffkonzentrationen geeignet sind.
24126146|The effects of different priming treatments on final germination percentage (FGP), rate (G50), and synchrony (G1090) of the seeds of two lettuce (Lactuca sativa L.) cultivars before and after storage were investigated. Seeds of 'Cortina' and 'Greenlakes' were osmotically primed in K3PO4, KH2PO4 or NH4H2PO4 and PEG 8000, having a water potential of -0.49 or -1.5 MPa for 10 or 20 hours at 15 C in darkness. Following priming, the seeds were subjected to germination tests at 20 C from which FGP, G50, and G1090 values were calculated. Among all the priming agents, only priming with KH2PO4 (-1.5 MPa) for 20 hours improved the germination synchrony of low vigour cultivar, 'Greenlakes' and therefore KH2PO4 was selected to be the priming agent for subsequent experiments. Primed (-1.5 MPa KH2PO4, for 20 hours) 'Cortina' and 'Greenlakes' seeds were either surface dried for 2 h at 21 C and 58 % relative humidity or dried back at 20 C and 20 % RH for 2 h, then they were stored at 4 C (refrigerator) or 20 C (incubator) for one month. Following storage, germination tests were performed and it was seen that storing the primed seeds of both cultivars for one month had little or no effect on the viability (FGP) and germination rate (G50), but slightly reduced the germination synchrony (G1090). Die Wirkung von unterschiedlichen Behandlungsmethoden mit und ohne anschlieender Saatgutlagerung auf die Keimung in Prozent (FGP), die Keimrate (G50) und die Gleichmigkeit der Keimung (G1090) wurde an Saatgut zweier Salatsorten (Lactuca sativa L.) untersucht. Saatgut der Sorten 'Cortina' and 'Greenlakes' wurde in K3PO4, KH2PO4 oder NH4H2PO4 mit PEG 8000, das ein Wasserpotential von -0.49 oder -1.5 MPa aufwies, 10 oder 20 Stunden bei 15 C und Dunkelheit osmotisch aufbereitet. Die Keimversuche erfolgten bei 20 C, aufgrund der ermittelten Werte wurden FGP, G50 und G1090 errechnet. Da von den Agenzien nur KH2PO4 (-1.5 MPa) mit einer Behandlungsdauer von 20 Stunden die gleichmige Keimung der schwachwchsigen Sorte 'Greenlakes' verbesserte, wurde KH2PO4 als das Behandlungsmittel fr weitere Versuche ausgewhlt. KH2PO4-behandeltes (-1.5 MPa, 20 Stunden) Saatgut von 'Cortina' und 'Greenlakes' wurde dabei entweder 2 h bei 21 C und 58 % relativer Feuchte oberflchengetrocknet oder 2 Stunden bei 20 C und 20 % RH zurckgetrocknet und anschlieend bei 4 C (Khlschrank) bzw. 20 C (Inkubator) ein Monat lang gelagert. Nach dieser Lagerung wurden wiederum Keimversuche durchgefhrt, die zeigten, dass die Lagerung der behandelten Samen ber einen Monat bei beiden Sorten geringen oder gar keinen Einfluss auf die Keimfhigkeit (FGB) und die Keimrate (G50) hat, dass aber die Gleichmigkeit der Keimung (G1090) leicht reduziert wurde.
24126480|A better understanding and quantification of the interdependent relationships within the system crop production serves as a base for production planning and control in research, advice and commercial practice. Since the last decades a new tool was developed, designated by the item modelling, enabling to integrate the numerous factors and relationships involved in decision support and optimisation. Especially at the beginning, scores of approaches and programs nowadays outdated were used, aggravating the use and integration of older files and parameters. Therefore the authors tried to review the modelling research done as a base for future upgrading and application. Concerning crop growth the reviews are restricted to the models elaborated in their institute (parts I and II). Concerning crop development the reviews are based on international literature for vernalisation (III), photoperiodism (IV), endodormancy (V) and emergence (VIa, b). These reviews recognise the general physiological and modelling basics, the application, however, is focused on vegetable production. In this last review, the basics of crop emergence are presented (VIa) and approaches to model seed germination and subsequent heterotrophic growth, combined defined as emergence, are outlined as a function of temperature, soil/medium moisture, physical seedling emergence forces, sowing operations and soil properties. Criteria are emergence ability as well as emergence rate, the last resulting in the duration of the emergence phase. Parameters related to vegetable production are compiled, economic aspects are considered and conclusions on horticultural relevance are derived.
24126793|Increasing energy costs are a main concern in greenhouse plant production. At this it is uncertain, how the expected climate change will affect this problem regionally. Therefore the future greenhouse energy consumption was simulated with the help of climat realizations of high spatio-temporal resolution from the regional climate model REMO (UBA-Runs), based on the IPCC climate projections A1B, A2 and B1. Simulations were conducted for each hour of the periods 20012015 and 203145 on a 100 km  100 km grid for Germany, as well as continuously for each hour from 1951 to 2099 on a 10 km  10 km grid for the federal department Lower Saxony (Germany), employing the energy simulation system HORTEX. Furthermore the influence of a consistent 2-d bias correction on the projected signal was tested in a case study (53 03 N, 08 48 E). The results consistently show a strong mean decrease of greenhouse energy consumption for all scenarios by 2038 and up to 45 % for the area of Germany, diverging regionally. Higher absolute reductions in energy consumption can be expected in warm greenhouses, while low temperature set points result in higher relative energy consumption reduction. The latter might influence future utilisation concepts.
24126178|Plant regeneration was achieved from callus and cell suspension cultures derived from disc floret, ray floret and petal expiants of Gerbera jamesonii cv. 'Diablo'. The highest callus induction from these expiants was achieved with 1.5 mg l-1 NAA, 2 mg l-1 NAA and 2 mg l-1 2, 4-D, respectively. The highest number of calli producing shoots and highest average number of shoots per callus was recorded on MS basal medium supplemented with 2 mg l-1 BA + 0.5 mg l-1 IAA. The calli derived from all expiants cultured in media containing 2 mg l-1 2, 4-D were highly friable, had poor regeneration potential and were selected for cell suspension studies. Cell suspensions were initiated with liquid MS medium containing 2 mg l-1 2, 4-D and sub-cultured weekly to fresh medium to obtain maximum cell density. The cultures were allowed to grow into micro-colonies in liquid medium and subsequendy into calli on semisolid and solid MS medium. Calli differentiated into adventitious shoots on MS medium containing 2 mg l-1 BA and 0.5 mg l-1 IAA. Plandets were obtained from in vitro derived shoots with 5660 % survival after 30 days of their transfer to pots. Kallus- und Zellsupensionskulturen aus Scheiben- und Strahlenblten sowie aus Bltenblttern der Gerbera jamesonii-Sotte 'Diablo' konnten zu Pflanzen regeneriert werden. Die hchsten Kallusinduktionsraten wurden bei diesen Explantaten mit 1.5 mg l-1 NAA, 2 mg l-1 NAA bzw. 2 mg l-1 2, 4-D erzielt. Die grte Anzahl sprossbildender Kalli und die grte durchschnittliche Sprosszahl wurde auf dem MS-Grundmedium mit 2 mg l-1 BA + 0.5 mg l-1 IAA erzielt. Die Kalli aller untersuchten Explantate waren in Medien mit 2 mg l-1 2, 4-D stark krmelig, wiesen nur geringes Regenerationspotenzial auf und wurden fr die Untersuchungen mit Zellsuspensionskulturen ausgewhlt. Zellsuspensionen wurden zunchst in flssigem MS-Medium mit 2 mg l-1 2, 4-D kultiviert und dann wchentlich umgesetzt, um eine mglichst hohe Zelldichte zu erreichen. Die Kulturen konnten sich in dem flssigen MS-Medium zu Mikrokolonien und dann schrittweise auf halbfestem und festem MS-Medium zu Kallus entwickeln. Die Kalli differenzierten auf MS-Medium mit 2 mg l-1 BA und 0.5 mg l-1 IAA Adventivsprosse. 5660 % der in vitro-gebildeten Pflnzchen waren 30 Tage nach berfhrung in Erde vital.
24126911|The performance of an irrigation system is most often described in terms of its distribution uniformity. The standard procedure for measuring irrigation distribution uniformity does not take into account the spatial variability of water in the soil following irrigation events. This research was initiated to evaluate the irrigation distribution uniformity of golf course irrigation systems and soil moisture distribution uniformity following their application. The lower quarter distribution uniformity (DULQ) at five courses averaged 55 % and ranged from 45 to 63 %. Soil moisture lower quarter distribution uniformity (SMDULQ) was 11 to 20 % higher than irrigation distribution uniformity. Semivariance analysis revealed a strong spatial relationship for irrigation distribution. However, spatial analysis of soil moisture was not consistent with the variability in irrigation delivery. It was concluded that the interaction of soil properties with turfgrass, not irrigation delivery, is the most significant contributing factor to soil moisture uniformity. From this study it was concluded that irrigation distribution should not be the only measure of irrigation system performance when considered in the context of water availability.
24126234|It was the aim of this study to investigate denitrification N loss and plant effects on its variability in cultures of potted ornamental plants. Experiments were conducted in flow-through chambers with plants of P. zonale 'Grand Prix' and E. pulcherrima 'Sonora Red' grown in peat substrate. Acetylene was applied at 5 vol.% to inhibit reduction of N2O. N emissions from planted pots started to evolve 2 to 4 hours after each irrigation event and followed a peak shaped curve. Variability in height and width of peaks was high among replications. N emissions strongly depended on high substrate water content; they ceased when water content dropped below a threshold value. Permanent flooding as well as reduction of plant transpiration retarded the decrease in water content and increased the duration of N emissions. Plant transpiration showed a close relationship to vapour pressure deficit (vpd) of air and mean N losses showed good correlation to vpds. It was concluded that plant transpiration determined the duration of denitrifying activity. With increasing plant age and size the duration of N emissions shortened but plants also seemed to increasingly stimulate N emissions. Emissions from potted eight-week old P. zonale evolved sooner and reached a maximum that was more than twice as high as those of four-week old plants. Possible reasons for stimulating and reducing plant effects on denitrifkation are discussed. Das Ziel der Untersuchungen war, N-Verluste durch Denitrifikation sowie den Einfluss der Pflanze auf die Variabilitt der Verluste in Zierpflanzen-Topfkulturen zu erforschen. Dazu wurden in Durchflusskammern Versuche mit in Torfsubstrat kultivierten Pflanzen der Arten P. zonale 'Grand Prix' und E. pulcherrima 'Sonora Red' durchgefhrt. Acetylen wurde mit 5 vol.% eingesetzt, um die Reduktion von N2O zu hemmen. Zwei bis vier Stunden nach jedem Bewsserungsereignis begannen N-Emissionen aus den bepflanzten Tpfen zu entweichen. Die Emissionen folgten einem Peak-frmigen Verlauf. Die Variabilitt der Hhe und Breite der Peaks war zwischen den Wiederholungen hoch. Die N-Emissionen zeigten eine starke Abhngigkeit von einem hohen Wassergehalt und endeten erst, wenn dieser unter einen Grenzwert abfiel. Dauerhafte Anstaubewsserung sowie die Einschrnkung der Transpiration verzgerten das Absinken des Wassergehalts und erhhten die Dauer der N-Emissionen. Die Transpiration der Pflanzen zeigte eine enge Beziehung zum Wasserdampfdruckdefizit (vpd) der Luft und die mittleren N-Verluste waren mit dem vpd korreliert. Daraus wurde geschlossen, dass die Transpiration der Pflanze die Dauer der denitrifizierenden Aktivitt bestimmte. Mit steigendem Alter und steigender Gre der Pflanzen verkrzte sich die Dauer der N-Emissionen, gleichzeitig schienen die Pflanzen die N-Emissionen zunehmend zu frdern. Emissionen aus Substrat mit acht Wochen alten P. zonale entwichen frher und erreichten ein mehr als zweifach hheres Maximum als die aus Substrat mit vier Wochen alten Pflanzen. Mgliche Ursachen stimulierender und hemmender Pflanzeneffekte auf die Denitrifikation werden diskutiert.
24126621|The group of grapevine (Vitis vinifera L.) varieties with the denomination 'Vitouska', 'Vitovska', 'Grganja', 'Garganja' and 'Grganija' in their names (synonyms) still cause disorder, because they are often considered indigenous and ancient varieties in their cultivation area. Therefore ampelographic characterisations of these varieties were conducted with O.I.V. descriptor codes, some phyllometric measurements and also with DNA analyses. Furthermore, the results were compared to evaluate phenotypic and genotypic similarities among analyzed varieties, which still cause misunderstanding in varietal discrimination. Ampelographic and phyllometric observations determined the similarities between 'Vitovska grganja' and 'Maratina', especially in the characteristics of young shoots, mature leaves, bunches and berries. On the other hand, these two varieties differed from 'Vitovska grganija', 'Vitouska' and 'Grganja' in many characteristic. The 'Vitovska grganja' variety grown in Kras (Slovenia) showed an unexpectedly high similarity (91 %) with the 'Maratina' variety, nowadays considered an indigenous variety from Dalmatia (Croatia). According to previous studies the 'Maratina' variety corresponds to the 'Pavlos' and 'Malvasia del Chianti' varieties but this was not confirmed in our study. The variety 'Garganja' from Central Istria (Croatia) had a unique SSR profile which did not match any other studied varieties (not even 'Rebula'); only a weak similarity (38 %) with 'Vitovska grganja' variety was detected. The DNA analyses additionally contributed to the resolvance of the synonym and homonym dilemma linked to the denominations 'Vito(u/v)ska' and 'G(a)rgan(i)ja'; however, the importance of simultaneous usage of phenotypic and genotypic methods for the varietal distinction has to be underlined.
24126134|A molecular typing analysis by Randomly Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) was performed on the large collection of Gallica roses from the conservatory of the Roseraie de la Cour de Commer' (France; 281 cultivars). A Principal Components Analysis (PCA) of the PCR data produced a map of distances between varieties. The identification of varieties by date of creation and breeder reveals the occurrence of two allele flows in opposite directions during the domestication history (XIXthXXth centuries) of this horticultural group. The first flow corresponds to an increased molecular polymorphism of PCR fragments resulting from a higher heterozygosity. This increased polymorphism is due to extensive crosses between Gallica varieties and selection of cultivars with original morphologies and hybrid vigour. The second flow corresponds to achievement of inter-specific crosses of Gallica (4n) varieties by Rosa chinensis (2n) and parent cultivars; these crosses result in introgression of chinenses characters (red coloration of young follicles, recurrence) together with some decrease of the molecular polymorphism probably due to some reduction of polyploidy and/or heterozygosity. The description in the horticultural literature of the pollination practices suggests that the many Gallica varieties corresponding to the first allele flow were created by productive breeders using simple cross intraspecific pollinations between Gallica cultivars. The few varieties corresponding to the second flow were created by careful breeders who practised strict interspecific pollinations between Gallicas and Chinenses roses. Eine molekulare Klassifizierung mittels 'Randomly Amplified Polymorphie DNA (RAPD) wurde mit der sehr umfangreichen Sammlung von Gallica-Rosen des Konservatoriums 'Roseraie de la Cour de Commer' durchgefhrt (Frankreich; 281 Varietten). Eine 'Principal Components Analysis' (PCA) der PCR Daten ergab ein Diagramm mit Abstnden zwischen den Varietten. Zusammen mit der Beschreibung neuer Varietten durch die Zchter und den genauen Daten der Kreation belegen diese Daten zwei Allelflsse in entgegengesetzter Richtung whrend der Domestikation (19. und 20. Jahrhundert) dieser Gartenbaugruppe. Der erste Fluss entspricht einer erhhten Rate von molekularen Polymorphismen der PCR Fragmente, die wahrscheinlich auf eine hhere Heterozygositt zurckzufhren ist, die ihrerseits vermutlich auf sehr zahlreichen Kreuzungen zwischen Gallica-Varietten und der Selektion von Kulturvarietten mit ursprnglicher Morphologie und Hybridstrke beruht. Der zweite Fluss entspricht interspezifischen Kreuzungen von Gallica- (4n) -Varietten mit Rosa chinensis (2n) und ihren Vorfahren; diese Kreuzungen fhren zu einer Introgression von Chinenses-Charakteren (rote Frbung der jungen Follikel, Wiederaustreiben) zusammen mit etwas Abnahme der molekularen Polymorphismen, vermutlich wegen einer Abnahme der Ploidie und/oder der Heterozygositt. Die Beschreibung der Bestubungspraktiken in der Gartenbauliteratur fhrt zu der Schlussfolgerung, dass die zahlreichen Gallica-Varietten des ersten Allelflusses durch sehr produktive Zchter geschaffen wurde, die einfache intraspezifische Kreuzungen zwischen Gallica-Kulturvarietten ausfhrten. Die sehr viel geringere Anzahl von Varietten des zweiten Allelflusses zeugt von umsichtigen Zchtern, die sehr gezielte interspezifische Kreuzungen zwischen Gallica- und Chinenses-Rosen ausbten.
24126156|Experiments were conducted to determine the protective effect triggered by the plant growth retardant prohexadione-Ca (Regalis), bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPS) and oligosaccharides (OLS) in different host-pathogen systems. These molecules did not show any direct antibacterial activity in vitro. On tobacco leaves, LPS infiltration (100 g ml-1) prevented hypersensitive reaction (HR), whereas OLS at different concentrations did not give constant and reliable responses. On micropropagated pear plantlets in vials, only Regalis and LPS (100 g ml-1) gave a significant defence-related response against fire blight (Erwinia amylovora): in particular, plant-derived antimicrobial compounds were related to flavan-3-ols and appeared to be newly synthesized after LPS application. Regalis, applied at different concentrations, significantly lowered progression of bacterial wilt (Ralstonia solanacearum) and reduced leaf lesions of bacterial speck (Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato) and spot (Xanthomonas vesicatoria) on tomato plants in the greenhouse. OLS application (100 g ml-1) significantly protected tomato leaves from bacterial speck, but not from bacterial spot. Two treatments with Regalis, at a twelve-day interval and at different concentrations (75+50 ppm), gave a valuable protection of grapevine leaves to downy mildew (Plasmopara viticola) in the greenhouse. When Regalis was sprayed at different concentrations and at different times on potted plum trees kept outdoors it was apparently ineffective against bacterial spot/canker (Xanthomonas arboricola pv. pruni). These findings further support the potential of prohexadione-Ca and of other biotic molecules as tools for plant defence responses against different pathogens, in the perspective of integrated, eco-friendly and sustainable control programmes. Die Untersuchungen wurden durchgefhrt, um die Schutzwirkung des Wuchshemmstoffs Prohexadion-Ca (Regalis) und von bakteriellen Lipopolysacchariden (LPS) sowie Oligosacchariden (OLS) in unterschiedlichen Wirt-Pathogen-Beziehungen zu ermitteln. In vitro weisen diese Molekle keinerlei direkte antibakterielle Wirkung auf. Auf Tabakblttern verhindert die LPS-Infiltration (100 g ml-1) Hypersensitivittsreaktionen (HR), whrend OLS in unterschiedlichen Konzentrationen keine konstante und zuverlssige Reaktion hervorruft. Mikrovermehrte, getopfte Birnenpflnzchen zeigten nur bei Regalis und LPS (100 g ml-1) signifikante Abwehrreaktionen gegen Feuerbrand (Erwinia amylovora): die von den Pflanzen gebildeten antimikrobiellen Verbindungen waren insbesondere mit Flavan-3-ol verwandt und wurden offenbar nach der LPS-Gabe neu synthetisiert. Regalis, das in unterschiedlichen Konzentrationen angewendet wurde, verlangsamte bei Gewchshaustomaten die Entwicklung der bakteriellen Welkekrankheit (Ralstonia solanacearum) signifikant und reduzierte Blattlsionen, die durch Blattflecken- (Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato) und Ringfleckenkrankheit (Xanthomonas vesicatoria) verursacht wurden. Die OLS-Gabe (100 g ml-1) schtzte Tomatenbltter mit signifikantem Erfolg vor Blattflecken jedoch nicht vor Ringflecken. Zwei Behandlungen mit Regalis, im Abstand von zwlf Tagen und in unterschiedlichen Konzentrationen (75+50 ppm), fhrten bei Reben unter Gewchshausbedingungen zu einem Schutz gegen Falschem Mehltau (Plasmopara viticola). Regalis, das in unterschiedlichen Konzentrationen und Zeitpunkten auf getopften Pflaumenbumen im Freiland ausgebracht wurde, war gegen eckige Fleckenkrankheit/Krebs (Xanthomonas arboricola pv. pruni) wirkungslos. Die beobachteten Ergebnisse ermglichen die Anwendung als Pflanzenschutzmittel sowohl von Prohexadion-Ca als auch von anderen biotischen Signalmoleklen bakterieller Herkunft, welche bestimmte Abwehrreaktionen der Pflanze hervorrufen knnen. Das ist besonders wichtig im Hinblick auf integrierte, umweltfreundliche und nachhaltige Kontrollprogramme.
24126513|Red beet (Beta vulgaris L. ssp. vulgaris) is rich in betacyanins and total phenolics, which are desired by consumers due to their considerable free radical scavenger and antioxidant properties. The aim of the present research was to evaluate the effect of N starvation on accumulation of betacyanins and total phenolics in leaves and roots, as well as biomass production, tissue N concentrations, total chlorophyll content and leaf gas exchange. Leaves of hydroponically cultivated red beet plants subjected to nitrogen deprivation (22.4 mg l-1 N in the nutrient solution) over 26 d exhibited a dramatic increase of 262 % in betacyanin concentration, in comparison to adequately-fed plants (224 mg l-1 N in the nutrient solution). The corresponding increase of betacyanin concentration in the roots of N-starved red beet was also significantly higher, specifically 225 %. Furthermore, total phenolics concentration under N-starvation conditions increased by 39 % in the leaves and 379 % in the roots, in comparison to standard N supply. These results suggest that the biosynthesis of certain secondary plant metabolites, such as total phenolics and betacyanins, can be stimulated by nutritional stress in red beet plants. Dry leaf and root biomass production in N-deficient plants was significandy restricted by 300 and 250 %, respectively, in comparison with the control plants. The total N concentration decreased by 13 % in leaves and 66 % in roots of N-starved plants. Furthermore, the rates of net CO2-assimilation and transpiration, the stomatal conductance, and the concentration of total chlorophyll, were severely restricted by N- deprivation, indicating that the primary metabolism was severely limited by low nitrogen availability. Our results indicate that, in red beet plants grown under prolonged N-deficiency stress, high amounts of total phenolics and betacyanins accumulate especially in the roots, presumably because the allocation of N to secondary metabolic processes aimed at survival takes strong precedence over N utilization in growth processes.
24126113|Water resources for irrigation are becoming increasingly limited, therefore, reducing irrigation is a sensible strategy to save water and possibly improve fruit quality in apple production. We investigated plant water relations, growth, yield, and fruit quality of 'Pacific Rose' apple subjected to the following irrigation treatments: commercially irrigated (CI) control, where soil was maintained near field capacity throughout the season; partial rootzone drying (PRD), where half of the irrigation volume of CI was applied to only one side of the rootzone; and no irrigation (NI), where water was withheld for the duration of the experiment. Volumetric soil water content of NI and the un-irrigated PRD side were significantly lower than CI and the irrigated PRD side from 62 days after full bloom (DAFB). Leaf water potential () of PRD was similar to CI on most occasions, whereas  of NI was generally lower than CI from 95 DAFB. Neither irrigation treatment significandy affected shoot growth, fruit growth, photosynthesis, and stomatal conductance. However, NI leaves discriminated significantly less against 13CO2 late in the season. At harvest, PRD and NI had saved 0.78 and 1.56 megalitres of water per hectare compared to CI, respectively, and did not significantly reduce fruit quality or yield. Weil die Wasservorrte immer begrenzter sind, ist die Reduzierung der Bewsserung eine vernnftige Methode, um Wasser zu sparen und dabei mglicherweise die Qualitt der produzierten pfeln zu erhhen. Wir untersuchten die Pflanze-Wasser-Beziehungen, das Wachstum, die Erntemenge und Fruchtqualitt von pfeln der Sorte 'Pacific Rose', die hinsichtlich der Bewsserung wie folgt behandelt wurden: (i) die im Erwerbsanbau bliche Bewsserung (CI) als Kontrolle, hierbei wurde die Erde ber die ganze Saison nahe der Feldkapazitt gehalten, (ii) partielle Wurzelzonentrockenheit (PRD), hierbei wurde die Hlfte der CI-Menge auf nur einer Seite der Wurzelscheibe ausgebracht sowie (iii) keine Bewsserung (NI), hierbei wurde whrend des Versuchs kein zustzliches Wasser gegeben. Die Volumeterwerte des Wassergehalts der NI-Variante und der nichtbewsserten Seite der PRD-Variante waren ab 62 Tage nach Vollblte (DAFB) signifikant niedriger als die der CI-Variante und der bewsserten Seite der PRD-Variante. Das Blattwasserpotential () der PRD-Variante war fast gleich, das  der NI-Variante ab dem 95 DAFB im Allgemeinen geringer als das von CI. Keine der Bewsserungsvarianten hatte deutlichen Einfluss auf das Spross- und Fruchtwachstum, die Photosynthese oder die stomatre Leitfhigkeit. Allerdings unterschieden NI-Bltter zum Saisonende hin weniger deutlich bezglich 13CO2. Zum Zeitpunkt der Ernte hatten PRD und NI 780 bzw. 1560 m3 Wasser pro Hektar im Vergleich zu CI gespart, ohne dass signifikante Unterschiede bei der Fruchtqualitt und Erntemenge auftraten.
24126501|Chemicals are usually applied to fruit tree orchards with air-assisted sprayers. This involves a significant risk of off-target contamination by spray drift and losses on the ground. Wind is one of the most significant climatic factors influencing the efficiency of chemical distribution, since it may account for a large drift. The aim of the research was to evaluate the wind effect on the efficiency of an air-assisted sprayer in terms of spray coverage and leaf deposit on the canopy. An artificial vineyard was used to perform the different tests under standard conditions in terms of vegetation structure, and microclimate. Canopy coverage and leaf deposit were measured. The former did not allow to point out the influence of a moderate wind (2 m s-1), while the latter made it possible to evaluate the influence of wind speed  2 m s-1 on the efficiency of the spray distribution. In windy conditions (5 m s-1) treatment efficiency was reduced by approximately 70 % compared to no wind condition.
24126345|In postharvest the risk of produce losses due to mechanical injuries during harvest and handling, and to contamination with phytopathogenic microorganisms is very high. Root vegetables such as carrots are washed before packaging to remove inorganic and organic debris and to present the product appealingly. Hence, effective disinfection of the washing water is indispensable to eliminate the risk that carrots strongly loaded with microorganisms might infect previously uncontaminated tap roots. During the last few years, the addition of various sanitizers has been considered one of which is ozone. Ozone is highly bactericidic and fungicidic, and does not generate hazardous residues. On the other hand, ozone is a strong oxidant and might damage the produce. The aim of this study was to investigate the suitability of ozonated wash water for the assurance of carrots' quality and safety stored at 20 C during 10 days. Both in solution and on carrots, ozonated water effectively inactivated Pectobacterium carotovorum, a bacterium which causes the soft rot. On the other hand, washing carrots with ozonated water (ozone concentration: 4 ppm) for 2 min did not affect the physiological activity of the products. Hence, ozonated water can be recommend as a rather easily applicably and efficient sanitizer for the washing of root vegetables.
24126116|Valuable genotypes were identified in the existing genetic resource of black mulberry (Morus nigra L.) in Mahmatlar and Eirdir at Lake Eirdir (Mediterranean region) of Turkey. First, native black mulberry genotypes were surveyed for fruit and tree characters and second, twenty-eight pre-selected genotypes were evaluated as potential candidates for conservation of M. nigra germplasm. Flowering started in the beginning of April. Harvesting period was between first week of July and September. The leaf shape of all genotypes was unlobed, dentate and cordate and the leaves (except from M-22 and M-23) had dark-green colour. Values between 3.74 g and 5.67 g was found for average fruit weight, 15.7317.42 mm for fruit diameter, 21.6627.04 mm for fruit length, 13.1116.23 % for soluble solid, 1.351.86 % for acidity and 2.823.0 g g-1 for vitamin C. All genotypes had an attractive black-purple colour and medium-large sized fruits. Innerhalb der in Mahmatlar und Eirdir am Eirdirsee (trkische Mittelmeerregion) vorhandenen genetischen Ressourcen der schwarzen Maulbeere (Morus nigra L.) wurde nach wertvollen Genotypen gesucht. Hierfr wurden im ersten Schritt die Frucht- und Baummerkmale einheimischer Genotypen ermittelt und im zweiten Schritt 28 selektierte Genotypen als mgliche Kandidaten fr eine Erhaltung der Genotypen nher untersucht. Die Blte begann Anfang April. Die Erntezeit reichte von der ersten Juliwoche bis in den September. Die Bltter aller Genotypen waren ungelappt, gezhnt und herzfrmig und mit Ausnahme von M-22 und M-23 dunkelgrn. Fr das durchschnittliche Fruchtgewicht wurden Werte zwischen 3.74 und 5.67 g, fr den Fruchtdurchmesser 15.7317.42 mm, fr die Fruchtlnge 21.6627.04 mm, fr die lsliche Trockensubstanz 13.1116.23 %, fr den Suregehalt 1.351.86 % und fr das Vitamin C 2.823.0 g g-1 gemessen. Die Frchte aller Genotypen waren schwarz-violett und mittelgro.
24126858|Strategies to improve the nutrient use efficiency in the orchard should allow a synchronization of the dynamics of nutrients demand by trees with their availability in the soil. In the present study we assessed the dynamics of nutrient accumulation along a vegetative season into the bourse shoot (including one apple attached at its base) in two apple cultivais ('Golden Delicious' and 'Nicoter'). This model tree organ accounted for about three quarters of the fruits and for more than half the leaves present on the trees. On June 10, July 24, August 28 and October 8 (ripening stage for both cultivars) 2008, randomly-chosen shoots were removed, separated into leaves, shoot axis and fruit and their dry weight and nutrient content were determined. The bourse shoots of the two varieties differed in their dry matter allocation, the fruit being a stronger sink in 'Golden Delicious' and in 'Nicoter'. Nutrient uptake and biomass increases were partially decoupled. For all macronutrients except potassium (K) the accumulation rate peaked between June and July and decreased thereafter. The accumulation of K, on the contrary, occurred at highest rate until the end of August, and diminished only close to fruit harvest. All nutrients, with the exception of calcium (Ca), increased in the fruit until harvest. At harvest, more Ca and magnesium were found in the bourse shoots of "Nicoteti as compared to 'Golden Delicious', which in turn accumulated more K. The two genotypes did not differ for the total amounts of nitrogen and phosphorus accumulated in the bourse shoot.
24126732|A model has been developed which assesses the economic and environmental performance of crop rotations, in both conventional and organic cropping, for over 70 arable and horticultural crops, and a wide range of growing conditions in Europe. The model, though originally based on the N_ABLE model, has been completely rewritten and contains new routines to simulate root development, the mineralisation and release of nitrogen (N) from soil organic matter and crop residues, and water dynamics in soil. New routines have been added to estimate the effects of sub-optimal rates of N and spacing on the marketable outputs and gross margins. The model provides a mechanism for generating scenarios to represent a range of differing crop and fertiliser management strategies which can be used to evaluate their effects on yield, gross margin and losses of nitrogen through leaching. Such testing has revealed that nitrogen management can be improved and that there is potential to increase gross margins whilst reducing nitrogen losses.
24126138|Cultivars of the genus Pyrus, commonly known as pear, are generally propagated, by budding on rootstocks. Pyrus cvs. on their own roots may overcome the problems of Pyrus cvs. on the often used quince rootstock in calcareous soils and the problem of poor winter hardiness. Because small cuttings are difficult to root, at the first time investigations on propagation of long cuttings (100 cm) of Pyrus cultivars were initiated. The influence of pH and application of a slow release fertilizer on rooting in Pyrus communis cv. 'Williams Christ' long cuttings was investigated. The highest rooting percentage was observed at a pH of 5.7 in the substrate, while application of 2 kg m-3 Plantacote Mix 4M was optimal for rooting. The pH of the substrate affected the root number and the length of the roots. Use of Plantacote Mix 4M did not improve root length. The pH of the substrate and the use of slow release fertilizer influenced the length of side branches. The influence of apical and basal position and length of cuttings on rooting properties of Pyrus communis cv. 'Conference' was studied in an unheated greenhouse experimental set-up. The length of cuttings did not significantly affect rooting percentage. Cuttings taken from the basal parts had higher rooting than cuttings from apical parts. Long cuttings tended to have the highest number and length of side branches per cutting. Most of the rooted long cuttings develop flower buds before transplanting in the field. Loss of rooted cuttings due to poor overwintering is a common problem in many nurseries. The effect of two overwintering methods on subsequent field establishment was studied. Field establishment of rooted Pyrus cv. cuttings was more successful after leaving the cuttings in an unheated greenhouse in winter and planting out in spring as compared to field planting in autumn. Pyrus communis-Obstsorten werden generell ber Okulation auf Unterlagen vermehrt. Birnensorten auf Quitte okuliert wachsen schlecht auf alkalischen Bden und zeigen mangelnde Winterhrte. Sorten auf eigener Wurzel knnten diese Probleme lsen. Da Kurzstecklinge von Birne schwerer vermehrbar sind, wurden zum erstenmal Untersuchungen zur Vermehrung von Birnensorten ber Langstecklinge (100 cm) durchgefhrt. Es wurde der Einfluss von pH-Wert und Aufdngung des Stecksubstrates mit Depotdnger auf die Bewurzelung von P. communis 'Williams Christ' Langstecklingen untersucht. Das beste Bewurzelungsprozent wurde bei pH 5.7 und Applikation von 2 kg m-3 Plantacote Mix 4M erreicht. Der Substrat-pH-Wert beeinflusst die Wurzelzahl und die Wurzellnge. Plantacote Mix 4M beeinflusst die Wurzellnge nicht. Substrat-pH und -aufdngung beeinflussen die Lnge von Seitentrieben. In einem unklimatisierten Foliengewchshaus wurde der Einfluss der Stecklingslnge und -position (apikal/basal) auf die Bewurzelung der Birnensorte 'Conference' untersucht. Die Lnge der Stecklinge beeinflusst den Prozentsatz der Bewurzelung nicht signifikant. Basalstecklinge verschiedener Lnge zeigen bessere Bewurzelung als Terminalstecklinge. Langstecklinge haben die hchste Anzahl und Lnge von Seitentrieben. Die meisten bewurzelten Langstecklinge haben noch vor dem Auspflanzen Bltenknospen gebildet. Das Absterben von bewurzelten Stecklingen whrend der berwinterung ist ein bekanntes Problem. Der Einfluss von zwei berwinterungsmethoden auf das berleben nach der Verschulung wurde untersucht. Dabei war das berleben von Stecklingen, die im unbeheizten Gewchshaus berwintert und im Frhjahr verschult wurden, besser als nach Herbstverschulung.
24126292|In the life cycle of Venturia nashicola, causing scab of Asian pears, especially the stages of colonization and sporulation in the susceptible pear cultivar 'Suli' as well as the interference of the fungicide mixture Clarinet combining the anilinopyrimidine derivative pyrimethanil and the triazole compound fluquinconazole in different stages of the life cycle of the pathogen were studied by means of scanning and transmission electron microscopy. The results showed that conidia of the pathogen germinated and developed appressoria on leaves 1 day after inoculation (DAI). After penetration of the leaf cuticle, hyphae developed between cuticle and epidermal cells and beyond hyphae also spread intercellularly into the leaf tissues. Hyphae did not penetrate into the cytoplasm. The ultrastructure of host cells which had been contacted by hyphal cells showed marked alterations: their cytoplasm was disorganized, cell wall layers became indistinct, showed electron transparent areas and some host cells were collapsed. Sporulation of the fungus started with the formation of conidia 12 DAI. Subcuticular stroma produced a group of associated conidiophores (fascicles) that sometimes emerged through stomata. The cytoplasm of hyphal cells was dense with cell organelles and lipid droplets. Concentric bodies were found in the cytoplasm of conidiophores. Preinfectional treatment with the fungicidal mixture Clarinet showed that the product only exhibited a short protective action on preinfectional stages of V. nashicola. On the other hand, postinfectional treatments displayed pronounced ultrastructural changes such as disorganization and increased vacuolization, necrosis and irregularly thickened cell walls in stroma, subcuticular and intercellular fungal cells. Even when Clarinet was applied 12 DAI cytoplasm of subcuticular hyphae and fungal cells in the intercellular space of mesophyll tissue became disorganized and showed large vacuoles. The fungicide mixture severely interfered in development of conidiophores and production of conidia by causing morphological alterations. The specific modes of action and interference of both fungicides in the life cycle of V. nashicola as well as aspects of an antiresistance strategy mediated by application of the mixture are discussed.
24126816|In a five-year survey of blossom-end rot of apples in Northern Germany, Botrytis cinerea and Neonectria galligena were the most important pathogens, being present in 41.6 and 33.9 % (respectively) of a total of 1085 infected fruits. Two unidentified Alternaria spp. (together 10.2 %), Diplodia seriata (6.5 %), Fusarium avenaceum and F. lateritium (together 4.2 %), Phoma exigua and an unidentified Phoma sp. (together 1.8 %), and Stemphylium vesicarium (1.4%) were also isolated from disease lesions. In contrast, Neofabraea alba, N. perennans and Sclerotinia sclerotiorum were rare, totalling 5 infected fruits throughout the entire survey. Characteristic symptoms of blossom-end rot were associated with different taxa and are described. Successive years showed substantial variations in the relative contribution of different pathogens to blossom-end rot in Northern Germany, B. cinerea being dominant in 2008 and 2011, and N. galligena in 2010. In samples collected in 2012 from the Palatinate and Lake Constance regions of Southern Germany, the range of pathogens was as above, and B. cinerea was the dominant species in both areas. Implications of these findings for regional fruit production are discussed.
24126284|Simple, accurate and non-destructive equations determining leaf area of plants are important for many experimental comparisons. Determining the individual leaf area (LA) of eggplant (Solanum melongena L.) involves measurements of leaf parameters [length (L) and width (W)]. Two year investigation were carried out during 2005 (on five cultivars) and 2006 (on one cultivar) under open field and greenhouse conditions, respectively to test whether a equation could be developed to estimate leaf area across cultivars. Regression analyses of LA versus L and W revealed several equations that could be used for estimating the area of individual eggplant leaves. A linear equation having LW as the independent variable provided the most accurate estimate (R2 = 0.97, MSE = 89) of eggplant LA, but double the time required for leaf measurement. The quadratic equation (LA = 0.763 L + 0.340 L2) exhibited a high accuracy and precision (R2 = 0.92, MSE = 220) in estimating individual eggplant LA. We preferred this equation because of its simplicity and convenience, as it only involves one variable. Validation of the quadratic equation having L of leaves measured in the 2006 experiment under greenhouse conditions showed that the correlation between calculated and measured areas was very high.
24126457|The influence of fruit load per tree and reflective mulch on the content of phenol compounds was studied in two experiments conducted on nectarines (cultivar 'Stark Red Gold') from two orchards differing in tree density (1.660 and 830 trees ha-1). Low crop load significantly increased fruit size and weight in both trials. Other parameters such as soluble solids, flesh firmness, acidity and skin color were affected only in nectarines from the low density orchard. At harvest, fruits from the low density orchard were more mature on low crop load trees compared to intermediate and high crop load trees. Crop load clearly affected the concentration of phenolic compounds: low-load fruits had a higher accumulation of phenolic compounds in skin and pulp tissues. Concentrations of cinnamic acids and flavan-3-ols consistently showed an inverse relationship to crop load. Inter-row reflective mulching modified average maximum temperature and the intensity of reflected light in the canopy. The mulching also changed fruit quality at harvest by promoting the ripening and generally increasing the concentration of the main classes of phenolic compounds. Our data indicate that health promoting value of nectarine fruits can be enhanced by increasing phenolic content via crop load and reflective mulches.
24126645|The most common stated reason to consumer dissatisfaction with tomatoes is lack of flavour. It has been shown that a common storage practice among consumer households is to store tomatoes in the refrigerator, which have a negative impact on tomato taste. Thus, consumer postharvest treatment in home may be a reason to diminishing taste. In a Swedish consumer survey we find that 53 % are dissatisfied with tomato taste and that 74 % store their tomatoes after purchase in a temperature below recommendations. Research done on the effect of tomato storage has led to the suggestion that growers should educate consumers on handling practices in order to remove the negative effect chilling has on taste experience. However, past research has been conducted on samples that potentially do not represent the target consumer, as trained sensory panels do not perceive taste as untrained consumers do. Based on previous empirical studies using expert panels, we hypothesise that panels consisting of ordinary consumers will prefer tomatoes stored in room temperature to those chilled under ordinary refrigerated conditions (i.e. 7 C) regardless of variety. Thus, we replicate and challenge past findings and normative recommendations through the use of two experiments involving consumer panels evaluating two varieties of tomatoes, 'Arvento' and 'Tisto', stored two days in refrigerator (7 C) and room temperature (21 C) respectively. We found a significant difference in consumer liking for 'Arvento' that were unchilled (M=6.443, SD=1.765) and chilled (M=5.849, SD=1.894), t(351)=4.270, p<0.001 (two tailed), albeit with a small effect size (eta squared statistic (.049)). No significant difference in liking was found for the 'Tisto' variety. We find, contrary to previous research, that storage temperature has no or only a marginal effect on perceived taste among respondents in untrained consumer panels for the two varieties in our trial. Theoretical and practical implications are discussed.
24126346|The fermentative metabolism was studied in cv. 'Jonagold' apples stored at 0 C in the following controlled atmosphere (CA) conditions: 6 kPa CO2 + 0.5 kPa O2; 3 kPa CO2 + 1 kPa O2; 1 kPa CO2 + 2 kPa O2, and also in regular air (RA) as a control. Apples in RA storage showed very low pyruvate decarboxylase (PDC) and alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) activity, and low concentrations of acetaldehyde and ethanol. The production of lactate, and the activity of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) in apple fruit were inhibited during storage, but a slight increase was observed during subsequent 8 days shelf-life at 20 C. During CA-storage, cv. 'Jonagold' apples both the activity of PDC and ADH increased with a corresponding accumulation of acetaldehyde and ethanol, mainly in fruits stored at high CO2 and/or low O2 partial pressures. Both enzymes, and their products, decreased to low levels during the 8 days shelf-life at 20 C after CA-storage. Lactate content and activity of LDH in CA-stored fruit showed a similar behaviour to the RA-stored fruit, however, the reduction of the enzyme activity was greater under CA-conditions. Overall, it is concluded that cv. 'Jonagold' apple fruit synthesize minute amounts of lactate and LDH and play a minor / negligible role in the fermentative metabolism of cv. 'Jonagold' and possibly other apple fruit.
24126470|A new laboratory calibration procedure is presented to calibrate soil water sensors in coir. Water content was measured gravimetrically with load cells during a drying cycle determined by the evaporative demand of the environment as well as the water retention characteristics of the growth medium (coir). Sample mass and capacitance sensor output (mV) was measured and logged hourly. Excellent precision fits, indicated by R2 values greater than 0.99, for sensor response versus volumetric water content (v) were achieved by 4th degree polynomial curves. Accuracy of sensor-specific calibration was within 0.002 to 0.005 m3 m-3 root mean squared error (RMSE) for the EC-10 sensors and 0.002 to 0.003 m3 m-3 RMSE for the EC-20 sensors. This indicated that the instruments are very reliable and capable to measure water content of coir over the entire range from saturation to the lower limit of plant available water. Accuracy of a universal coir calibration was 0.05 and 0.025 m3 m-3 RMSE for the EC-10 and EC-20 sensors, respectively. Although the universal equations were less reliable than the individual equations, they still outperformed the equations provided by the manufacturer. The manufacturer's default calibration for soil underestimated v of coir by a large margin of 0.25 to 0.29 m3 m-3 RMSE for the EC-10 sensors and 0.27 to 0.33 m3 m-3 RMSE for the EC-20 sensors. It was therefore strongly recommended that the manufacturer's equations should be replaced by the universal equations when using coir. Regular re-calibration was found to be important for organic growth mediums, since they may deteriorate over time. In conclusion, it stressed the need for a reliable and accurate determination of calibration equations.
24126876|This paper reports on the effects of gibberellic acid (GA3) on floral formation and the potential for GA3 to reduce flower primordia formation in sweet cherry (Prunus avium L.). GA3 was applied to 4-year-old '0900 Ziraat'/'Gisela 5' trees at two growth stages (early flowering and beginning of fruit development) at the doses of 0, 25, 50, 100, and 250 mg L-1, for a 2-year period. Bud samples were taken from the beginning of July to the end of September in both years in six sequential dates. During the dormant seasons, buds were collected to determine number of flowers per bud. Samples were fixed and stored in a solution of formalin, 70% ethanol and glacial acetic acid (10:50:5, v/v). Flower formation in the buds was examined using a stereo zoom microscope and the morphological changes in each sample were recorded using a camera mounted on the microscope. Number of flowers per bud was negatively and linearly related to GA3 concentration. Floral formation in '0900 Ziraat' sweet cherry (untreated control) started in early-July and continued until mid-September. The progress during which the sepal, petal, stamen and pistil primordia were differentiated was considerably slower at GA3 applications. Imperfection of the floral buds was observed as the floral organs being replaced by leaf-like appendages or as none of the flower buds having one normally-developed flower primordia or as floral organs or flower primordia being much smaller than the other.
24126499|The most important problem limiting marketable quality in kiwifruit is the flat or fan shaped fruits. Although selective hand thinning and sorting can be used to remove these fruit, the cost increase may be considerable. This study describes the morphological changes on a microscopic level during flower formation at the reproductive primordia of 'Hayward'. Flower primordia with abnormal deviations were classified into four groups depending upon relative shape (flat or fan-shaped) and the number (double or triple) of the pistil. Normal and flat shaped fruits are similar to each other. Both fruits have a pericarp, mesocarp, seed bed, and core tissue. However, flat fruit has more loculi and wider core tissue. Fasciated fruits form when terminal flower fuses with one or more lateral flower. Double and triple fruit form when two flowers (one terminal and one lateral flower) or three flowers (one terminal and two lateral flowers), respectively, fuse together during ovary differentiation.
24126159|Rose (Rosa  hybrida), a popular and widely spread garden plant, is infected by numerous plant diseases, which are mainly caused by fungal and even by bacterial pathogens such as Erwinia amylovora, the causal agent of fire blight. Recently, prohexadione-Ca, a 2-oxoglutarate specific inhibitor originally developed as a growth retardant, was reported to influence the flavonoid composition of apple and pear leaves and, thus, to increase resistance against fire blight and other diseases. It was supposed that this approach could also mediate resistance in roses. As the first step, the induction of the antimicrobial 3-deoxyflavonoid in rose leaves after prohexadione-Ca application was investigated in a time course experiment. Due to the presence of disturbing phenolic compounds impeding the preparation and testing of enzymes, enzyme preparation procedures and assays had to be adapted and optimised for rose leaves. Standard enzyme assays are described for phenylalanine ammonia lyase (PAL), chalcone synthase/chalcone isomerase (CHS/CHI), flavanone 3-hydroxylase (FHT), dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) and flavanone 4-reductase (FNR). Cloning and heterologous expression showed that the DFR of rose exhibits FNR activity as well. Treatment of rose leaves with prohexadione-Ca led to the inhibition of FHT and to the formation of the 3-deoxyflavonoid luteoliflavan. Likewise, induction effects on PAL, CHS and DFR/FNR activity were also observed. In general, it could be shown that rose leaves produce 3-deoxyflavonoids after prohexadione-Ca treatment and, therefore, this method can be considered as a potential protection strategy for roses that will be studied phytopathologically in a next step. Die Rose (Rosa  hybrida), eine beliebte und weit verbreitete Zierpflanze, kann von vielen Pflanzenkrankheiten befallen werden. Die meisten werden von Pilzen verursacht, es gibt aber auch bakterielle Erkrankungen wie z.B. Feuerbrand, der von Erwinia amylovora hervorgerufen wird. Es wurde beschrieben, dass die Behandlung mit Prohexadion-Ca den Flavonoidgehalt in Apfelblttern beeinflusst und die Resistenz gegenber Feuerbrand erhht. Da Flavonoide generell eine wichtige Rolle bei der Pathogen-Abwehr spielen, wurde die Flavonoidbiosynthese in Rosenblttern, insbesondere die auftretenden Vernderungen nach Behandlung mit Prohexadion-Ca, im Zeitverlauf untersucht. Aufgrund des hohen Gehaltes an phenolischen Inhaltsstoffen, welche die Prparation und Untersuchung der Enzyme stren, wurden Enzymaufarbeitung und Enzymtests fr die Rosenbltter optimiert. Standardenzymtests fr die Phenylalaninammoniumlyase (PAL), Chalkonsynthase/Chalkonisomerase (CHS/CHI), Flavanon 3-hydroxylase (FHT), Dihydroflavonol 4-reduktase (DFR) und Flavanon 4-reduktase (FNR) werden beschrieben. Durch Klonierung und heterologe Expression der Rosen-DFR konnte gezeigt werden, dass diese auch FNR-Aktivitt besitzt. Die Behandlung von Rosenblttern mit Prohexadion-Ca fhrte zu einer Inhibition der FHT-Aktivitt und zur Akkumulation des 3-Deoxyflavonoids Luteoliflavan. Gleichzeitig konnte eine Induktion der PAL, CHS und der DFR/FNR-Aktivitt beobachtet werden. Zusammenfassend konnte gezeigt werden, dass die Rose nach Prohexadion-Ca-Behandlung 3-Deoxyflavonoide bilden, und dass diese Methode somit als potentielle Pflanzenschutzstrategie fr die Rose betrachtet werden kann. Im nchsten Schritt sollen phytopathologische Untersuchungen durchgefhrt werden.
24126852|We explored the potential of fluorescence ratios, based on multiple fluorescence excitation indices, as compared to chlorophyll fluorescence (ChlF) recorded with the pulse amplitude modulation (PAM) technique, for early and sensitive detection of water deficiency (WD) in tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) leaves. In this context, we hypothesized that the indices BFRR_UV (ratio of BF (blue fluorescence) to FRF (far-red fluorescence), both excited with UV-light), FLAV (logarithm of the ratio of red-excited FRF to the UV-excited FRF) and NBI (ratio of UV-excited FRF to the red-excited red fluorescence) of the multiple fluorescence excitation technique reveal the onset and intensity of WD in plants exposed to long-term WD, as well as during re-watering. For this purpose, three tomato genotypes were grown in the greenhouse under well-watered or long-term WD conditions. The decrease of the osmotic potential, relative water content and chlorophyll concentration as well as the increase in proline concentration confirmed the impact of WD leading to drought stress. ChlF recorded with the PAM technique showed significant differences between control and WD treatment in the relative apparent electron transport rate and the coefficient of photochemical quenching (qP). The indices BFRR_UV and FLAV significantly increased while the NBI significantly decreased during WD. As compared to the qP, the ratios BFRR_UV and FLAV provide information of equivalent quality concerning the genotype-specific responses to WD. Thus, the multiple fluorescence excitation technique establishes a valuable, fast and practical tool for the in situ monitoring of the physiological status of the plants without the need of dark adaption as required for the PAM recordings.
24126248|Stem-end rot was previously considered as post-harvest disease of citrus fruits, but recently, it has been observed as a cause of pre-harvest fruit rot in citrus orchards of Punjab state of India. Pre-harvest stem-end rot causing agent, Colletotrichum gloeosporioides, was characterized and evaluated on different stages of citrus cultivar, 'Kinnow' beginning from floral buds to mature fruits. Two isolates of Colletotrichum, Cg-1 (slow growing with orange pigmentation in culture media) and Cg-2 (fast growing, without pigmentation in culture media) were isolated from infected fruits, and ascribed to species C. gloeosporioides. All stages of fruit growth, starting from petal-fall stage to 14-week old fruits were found susceptible to stem-end rot infection after artificial inoculations under in vitro and in vivo conditions. Older fruits developed stem-end rot more quickly as compared to younger fruits. The symptoms appeared as necrotic lesions on unopened and opened flowers, and persistent calyces (buttons) formed as a result of flower infection. The symptoms initiated as brown to reddish brown or black spots in all stages near the stem-end region, which became firm and dry and ultimately, the rind became softened and resulted in rotting in the advance stages. Isolate Cg-1 was pathogenic to all stages of citrus fruits and, incidence remained the same irrespective of stage of fruit under both in vitro and in vivo conditions. Isolate Cg-2 was ineffective at both petal-fall and button-sized fruit stage, but caused serious damage in mature fruits.
24126168|In many fruit and vegetable crops, the number of bee visitations to receptive flowers can be the limiting step in obtaining optimal yields. Increasing the attractiveness of flowers to bees could increase visitation and provide a means of improving fruit yields and seed production. Nectar volume and sugar composition of male and female flowers of four cultivars of Cucurbita pepo L. (zucchini) pollinated by bumblebees were examined in a greenhouse environment. The number of visits to flowers, the number of seeds produced by visited flowers, and the sugar composition of nectar was determined during the spring. Patterns of nectar sugar composition, albeit being always sucrose rich, varied along the months of culture. There were no statistically significant differences among cultivars for the nectar sugar concentration. However, differences were observed between cultivars for the ratio of nectar sucrose/hexose. The number of seed set per visited female flower was correlated with the number of bee visits. Increased frequency of bee visits was correlated with higher volumes of nectar and with higher ratios of sucrose/hexose, which appeared to be useful indicators of pollinator preferences. Bei vielen Obst- und Gemsearten kann die Anzahl der Insektenbesuche bei empfngnisbereiten Blten der begrenzende Faktor fr eine optimale Erntemenge sein. Die Steigerung der Attraktivitt der Blten fr Insekten knnte die Besuchszahlen erhhen und eine Methode zur Steigerung der Ernte- und Saatgutmenge darstellen. Unter Gewchshausbedingungen wurde die Nektarmenge und die Zuckerzusammensetzung bei mnnlichen und weiblichen Blten von vier Zucchinisorten (Cucurbita pepo L.), die von Hummeln bestubt wurden, untersucht. Erfasst wurden die Anzahl Besuche pro Blte, die Anzahl Samen pro besuchter Blte und die Zuckerzusammensetzung whrend des Frhjahrs. Die Muster der Zuckerzusammensetzung im Nektar, wenngleich immer reich an Saccharose, variierte whrend der Kulturmonate. Es waren keine statistischen Unterschiede zwischen den Sorten hinsichtlich Zuckerkonzentration des Nektars nachweisbar. Allerdings wurden Sortenunterschiede beim Verhltnis von Saccharose/Hexose im Nektar beobachtet. Es bestand eine Korrelation zwischen dem Samenansatz pro besuchter weiblicher Blte und der Anzahl Hummelbesuche. Eine erhhte Frequenz von Hummelbeschen war mit grerer Nektarmenge und hheren Saccharose/Hexose-Verhltnissen korreliert, was geeignete Indikatoren fr die Vorlieben des Bestubers zu sein scheinen.
24126311|In vitro experiments were conducted to evaluate the efficacy of arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM) colonized root extracts of four plant species namely Trigonella foenum graecum, Ricinus communis, Solanum melongena and Morus alba (var. sujanpuri) on rhizogenesis of Morus alba (var. sujanpuri) under sodium chloride (NaCl) stress. The AM fungi (Glomus and Gigaspora species) were multiplied on above-mentioned four host plant species separately and the mycorrhizal root extracts were prepared by homogenizing well-colonized mycorrhizal roots. The extracts were added to Murashige and Skoog's (MS) media containing 0.1 to 0.4 % (w/v) NaCl. The in vitro grown shoot cultures of M. alba were transferred to different AM root extract MS media for rhizogenesis. The comparisons were made between indole butyric acid (IBA) (1.0 mg l-1) and AM root extracts. The AM root extracts of M. alba were found to be equivalent to IBA and better than other plant extracts in promoting rhizogenesis, root growth and proliferation under both (+) and () NaCl conditions. Es wurden in vitro Experimente durchgefhrt, um die Wirkung von mit arbuskularer Mycorrhiza (AM) besiedelten Wurzelextrakten der vier Pflanzenarten Trigonella foenum graecum, Ricinus communis, Solanum melongena und Morus alba (var. sujanpuri) auf die Rhizogenese von Morus alba (var. sujanpuri) unter Kochsalz- (NaCl-) Stressbedingungen zu ermitteln. Die AM-Pilze (Glomus- und (Gigaspora-Arten) wurden auf den vier obengenannten Wirtspflanzenarten separat vermehrt und der Mykorrhizawurzelextrakt durch Homogenisieren der reich besiedelten Mykorrhizawurzeln hergestellt. Die Extrakte wurden dem Murashige und Skoog (MS) Medium, das 0.10.4 % (w/v) NaCl enthielt, zugefgt. Die in vitro vorkultivierten Sprosskulturen von M. alba wurden zur Wurzelbildung auf die mit unterschiedlichen AM-Wurzelextrakten angereicherten MS-Medien umgesetzt. Es wurde zwischen Indolbuttersure (IBA) (1.0 mg l-1) und den AM-Wurzelextrakten verglichen. Die AM-Wurzelextrakte von M. alba erwiesen sich sowohl unter (+) als auch unter () NaCl-Bedingungen im Vergleich mit IBA als gleichwertig und verglichen mit den anderen Pflanzenextrakten als besser hinsichtlich Frderung der Bewurzlung, Wurzelwachstum und Proliferation.
24126341|A selection protocol to screen for powdery mildew resistance at an early stage in rose progenies was evaluated. Seedlings were grown in the first year in two separate greenhouse compartments: one with inoculation plants (C1) and one without (C2; control compartment). In the second year, the same genotypes were tested in the field under natural infection conditions. In the compartment with inoculation plants a high and uniform infection pressure was established. Selection for disease resistance could start more than one month earlier in the greenhouse compartment with inoculation plants compared to the control compartment. Significant correlations between greenhouse evaluation and field scores were found, especially for the families (F1) of different crosses. In commercial breeding, the proposed method can significantly reduce selection efforts and allows for a more economical and efficient manner to screen on a larger number of seedlings for resistance.
24126160|In pome fruit trees, the growth retardant prohexadione-Ca induces the formation of 3-deoxycatechins, which correlates with an increased resistance against fire blight and also against some fungal diseases. The formation of 3-deoxycatechins is due to the channelling of intermediates unusual for pome fruits, which requires the presence of a flavanone 4-reductase (FNR) activity. Here, it is investigated, whether the crop plants strawberry, grapevine, cranberry, cherry, peach, plum, elder, and kiwi fruit react in the same way to prohexadione-Ca application. The presence of FNR activity is shown by enzymatic investigations and the formation of a 3-deoxycatechin after prohexadione-Ca application in planta. Furthermore, by cloning of the corresponding cDNAs and studies with the heterologously expressed enzymes it is shown that the DFR enzymes of grapevine, cranberry and strawberry posses also FNR activity. Conclusively, all the crop plants studied have the potential to form 3-deoxyflavonoids. However, the changes in the flavonoid composition observed after prohexadione-Ca treatment were not exactly the same in all species studied here. In kiwi fruit leaves, a strong accumulation of flavanones rather than the formation of large amounts of 3-deoxycatechins is observed. Der Wachstumsregulator Prohexadion-Ca kann bei Kernobst die Bildung von 3-Deoxyflavonoiden induzieren, was mit einer erhhten Resistenz gegen Feuerbrand, aber auch gegen Pilzerkrankungen einhergeht. Das Vorhandensein einer Flavanon 4-Reduktase ist hierbei entscheidend fr die Umlenkung von Intermediaten in Richtung der 3-Deoxycatechine. In der vorliegenden Studie wurde untersucht, ob weitere Obstarten wie Erdbeere, Weinrebe, Cranberry, Kirsche, Pfirsich, Pflaume, Holunder und Kiwi gleichermaen auf eine Prohexadion-Ca Anwendung reagieren. FNR-Aktivitt wurde enzymatisch und durch die Bildung eines 3-Deoxycatechins nach Behandlung mit Prohexadion-Ca nachgewiesen. Darber hinaus wurde durch cDNA-Klonierung und heterologe Expression gezeigt, dass die DFR-Enzyme von Wein, Cranberry und Erdbeere auch FNR-Aktivitt besitzen. Generell wurde nachgewiesen, dass alle untersuchten Pflanzen das Potential haben, 3-Deoxyflavonoide zu bilden. Die Vernderungen im Flavonoidstoffwechsel nach Prohexadion-Ca Behandlung waren allerdings in den untersuchten Pflanzen unterschiedlich und fhrten beispielsweise in Kiwi zu einer starken Akkumulation von Flavanonen.
24126102|Two rose hip types thorny '25-mrk-14' (Rosa canina L.) and thornless '25-mrk-15' (Rosa dumalis Bechst.) selected from previous studies were used in this investigation. Samples of one year old twigs were collected and exposed to the artificial freezing test at -30 C for 0, 8, 16 and 24 hours from November through March. Throughout the experiments, several biochemical analyses on the buds of the rose hip genotypes, including total sugar, reducing sugar, sucrose and starch were performed monthly. Results indicated that there was a significant difference between the species of rose hips for resistance to cold, according to hours of treatment and month of samples taken. The '25-mrk-15' was less resistant than the '25-mrk-14' in terms of cold hardiness. Freezing tolerance in both rose hip genotypes is higher in January and February than November and December. The sugar ingredients of rose hip types increased from November to February, but decreased in March. Die in dieser Untersuchung verwendeten hagebuttenbildenden Rosenarten, die mit Dornen behaftete '25-mrk-14' (Rosa canina L.; Hunds-Rose) und die dornlose '25-mrk-15' (Rosa dumalis Bechst.; Graugrne Rose), stammten aus Selektionen frherer Versuche. Von November bis Mrz wurden von einjhrigen Zweigen Proben genommen und 0, 8, 16 oder 24 Stunden unter kontrollierten Bedingungen einer Kltebehandlung bei -30C unterzogen. Whrend der gesamten Versuchsdauer wurden an den Rosenknospen monatlich biochemische Analysen, wie Bestimmungen des Gehalts an Gesamtzucker, reduzierendem Zucker, Saccharose und Strke durchgefhrt. Die Ergebnisse zeigten einen signifikanten Unterschied im Merkmal Klteresistenz zwischen den Hagebuttenarten, der Dauer der Kltebehandlung und dem Monat der Probennahme. '25-mrk-15' war weniger klteresistent als '25-mrk-14'. Bei beiden Arten ist die Klteresistenz im Januar und Februar grer als im November und Dezember. Die Zuckerinhaltstoffe nehmen in den beiden Rosenarten von November bis Februar zu und fallen im Mrz ab.
24126439|Phenological data of sweet cherry (Prunus avium L.) cultivars 'Burlat' and 'Germersdorfer" were analysed to ascertained the effect of air temperature on the onset of phenophases (first bloom, full bloom, end of flowering, maturity and calculated period of fruit development) during two 5-years-periods: before (P1) and during climate change (P2) in Slovenia. Although non-significantly higher mean temperatures from January to March during P1 influenced earlier date of flowering. The onset of 'Burlat' flowering phenophases were statistically similar during P1 and P2, being later first bloom and full bloom in P2, but the onset of 'Germersdorfer' flowering phenophases were significantly later during P2. Significantly higher mean temperatures of April and May during P2 shortened period of fruit development for 7 d in 'Burlat' and 11 d in 'Germersdorfer'. The speed of sweet cherry phenological progress was influenced by temperature of the preceding months. Shortened period of fruit development will most probably reduce sweet cherry fruit quality and yield, but advanced flowering after warmer winter months will increase risk of spring frosts.
24126658|Heads of red, white and Savoy cabbage grown at the Norwegian University of Life Sciences in the season 2001 and 2002 were stored at 1 C for 20 weeks in controlled atmosphere (CA) consisting of 3 % CO2, 3 % O2 and 94 % N2, and in conventional cold storage. Samples were assayed for total antioxidant activity (FRAP), ascorbic acid and dry matter. The main result, as expressed by principal component analyses (PCA), was the difference between red cabbage, which was higher in vitamin C and FRAP, and white and Savoy cabbage which had the highest dry matter content. There was a large degree of overlap between the different samples for storage methods, storage time and year. In both years, the main effect of storage time on FRAP was non-significant. In 2001, significant differences in vitamin C and weight loss were found between the two storage methods, whereas dry matter and FRAP were non-significant. In 2002, significant differences were found between dry matter, FRAP and vitamin C, while weight loss was non-significant.
24126340|In this study, immature zygotic embryo expiants of 41 B American rootstock (V vinifera L. cvs. 'Chasselas' x V. berlandieri) were cultured on B5 medium (Gamborg et al. 1968) supplemented with 0.5, 1.0, 2.0 and 4.0 mg l-1 2,4-D (2,4 dichlorophenoxy acetic acid) in light and dark conditions. The highest somatic embryo formation was obtained from dark condition in the media containing 0.5, 1.0 and 2.0 mgl-1 2,4-D with the rates of 27.5, 22.0 and 20.0 %, respectively. The highest number of torpedo shaped somatic embryos was also obtained from dark condition with B5 medium supplemented with 1.0 mg l-1 2,4-D (565 embryos per explant). These torpedo shaped somatic embryos were used to produce artificial seeds. The somatic embryos were encapsulated in calcium alginate gel using various concentrations of sodium alginate (3 and 4 %) and calcium chloride (75,100 and 125 mM) in order to determine the effect of rigidity of bead on conversion frequency of somatic embryos. The mixture of 3 % sodium alginate and 125 mM calcium chloride was found to be the optimal combination for encapsulation. The encapsulated somatic embryos were transferred to the hormone free MS medium (Murashige and Skoog 1962) for germination and the germination rates were between 54 and 74 %.
24126851|Fruit diameter increase was monitored in four apple cultivars during three consecutive years (20062008) from t-stage until harvest. Individual fruit diameter increase was described using a negative exponential equation. Fruit growth curves of early ('Gala Brookfield'), mid-season ('Golden Delicious Reinders') and late ripening apple cultivars ('Braeburn Hillwell', 'Fuji Kiku 8') were denoted with an appropriate nonlinear model and each model parameter was evaluated separately. Apple fruit analyzed in the present study exhibited a similar growth curve for all analyzed cultivars i.e. a linear increase in fruit diameter in the beginning of fruit growth, followed by a slow curvilinear enlargement towards the asymptote in the final stages of fruit growth a few weeks before technological maturity. Asymptote was significantly dependent on cultivar, exhibiting higher correlation between predicted final fruit diameter and measured fruit diameter at harvest for late ripening cultivars. Similar growth rates have been calculated for 'Gala Brookfield', 'Golden Delicious Reinders' and 'Fuji Kiku 8' and a slower growth rate was characteristic for 'Braeburn Hillwell' cultivar.
24126105|A study was conducted to assess the relationship between skin speckle, soluble solids content, stomata, lenticels and transpiration rate of nectarine fruit {Prunus persica (L.) Batsch) of two cultivars 'Snowqueen' and 'Fairlane'. Fruit soluble solids content and transpiration rate per fruit and surface area were measured on tissue samples taken from fruit parts with and without skin speckles. Soluble solids content and transpiration rate varied for a fruit and were higher in fruit parts with skin speckles than in fruit parts without skin speckles. Results reflected a positive association between skin speckle, soluble solids content and transpiration rate. This positive association provides a challenge for breeders, which is to produce fruits without skin speckles while not adversely affecting sugar levels. Die Untersuchung wurde durchgefhrt, um den Zusammenhang zwischen Hautsprenkeln, Gehalt an lslichen Kohlenhydraten, Stomata, Lentizellen und Transpirationsrate bei Nektarinenfrchten (Prunus persica (L.) Batsch) der Sorten 'Snowqueen' und 'Fairlane' abzuschtzen. Der Gehalt an lslichen Kohlenhydraten, die Transpirationsrate pro Frucht und die Fruchtoberflche wurden an Gewebeproben von Fruchtpartien mit und ohne Hautsprenkel gemessen. Der Gehalt an lslichen Kohlenhydraten und die Transpirationsrate variieren innerhalb einer Frucht und sind in Fruchtteilen mit Sprenkeln hher als in solchen ohne Sprenkel. Die Ergebnisse weisen auf einen positiven Zusammenhang zwischen Hautsprenkeln, Gehalt an lslichen Kohlenhydraten und Transpirationsrate hin. Dieser positive Zusammenhang stellt eine zchterische Herausforderung dar, die darin besteht, Frchte ohne Hautsprenkel zu zchten ohne dabei den Zuckergehalt negativ zu beeinflussen.
24126221|The genus Anemone (Ranunculaceae) includes about 85 species. The Mediterranean basin is the centre of differentiation for many of the species that have contributed to presently cultivated varieties: A. coronaria, A. hortensis, A. pavonina and A. x fulgens. A. coronaria is, either in nature or under culture conditions, a winter-flowering species and the progenitor of the varieties currently grown for cut-flower production and garden ornament. Current cultivars cluster series of sub-cultivars which are characterised by quite uniform colour. Nevertheless other traits as flower production, precocity and flower quality show an evident genetic variation. A. coronaria may be considered a multifunctional species. It is expected that new cultivars will carry a set of distinctive traits that make them suitable for definite uses: cut flower production, garden or pot plants. In recent years, new tools that may support breeding activities were established: in vitro propagation of adult plants and seedlings, androgenetic plant production, characterization of populations and cultivars by molecular markers and detection of Single Nucleotide Polymorphism in cDNA. In consideration of the potentials of such tools, two major strategies are proposed for breeding new cultivars: A) crosses between selected heterozygous parents and B) crosses between inbreed homozygous or androgenetic parents in order to obtain true F1 hybrids.
24126720|Plants of the annual-fruiting raspberry (Rubus idaeus L.) cultivars 'Autumn Treasure', 'Erika' and 'Polka' were raised in a phytotron under different temperature and day-length conditions for six weeks, and subsequently cropped in an open plastic tunnel at latitude 61 N. Flowering and fruit maturation were advanced and yield increased with increasing raising temperature over the 15-25 C range in 'Erika' and 'Polka', while 20 C was optimal for 'Autumn Treasure'. Long day (LD) conditions (20 h) likewise advanced flowering and increased fruit yield compared with 10 h photoperiod at all temperatures in 'Erika' and 'Polka', while photoperiod had no significant effect on flowering and fruit yield in 'Autumn Treasure'. In agreement with earlier findings, low temperature vernalization at 6 C for six weeks increased flowering and fruit yield in 'Polka' compared with control plants raised at 18 C. Vernalization also advanced the transition to flowering by reducing the number of nodes formed before flowering in 'Autumn Treasure' without increasing fruit yield, while flowering and fruiting were not promoted by vernalization in 'Erika'. 'Erika' out-yielded the other cultivars under all conditions and produced remarkable yields of 3.3 kg plant-1 when raised in LD at 25 C. With its great yield potential and large fruits with excellent flavour, 'Erika' presents itself as a very promising cultivar, especially for environments with long growing season. The number of fruiting nodes was the single most important plant structural component associated with high fruit yield, accounting for 76 % of the total variation in the total data material.
24126733|An experiment was conduced to study the response of pepper plants under saline conditions (30 mM NaCl) on growth, cation uptake, and water and ion relations. The physiological role of K+ under the saline conditions was studied. Pepper plants were cultivated with five different nutrient solutions that included four K+ treatments (0.2,2.0,7.0 and 14.0 mM K+) with 30 mM NaCl and an additional treatment with 7 mM K+ without salt. Plants were grown in hydroponics in a controlled-environment greenhouse and the experiment was carried out until the start of the fruiting phase. Salinity reduced reproductive organs dry weight and shoot dry weight but not root dry weight. Salinity did not affect water relations at dawn but affected ion relations in leaf sap and decreased relative water content at midday. The concentration in leaf sap of Cl- and the organic solutes fructose, glucose and myo-inositol increased in salt-stressed plants. In addition, salinity produced nutrient unbalance in both leaf and root by increasing the Cl-/NO3- ratio. On the other hand, increasing K+ concentration in the nutrient solution increased salt tolerance as indicated by the increases in shoot and root dry weights. This effect was mainly due to the fact that plants under high K+ concentrations are able to keep adequate water and ion relations with a high K/Na ratio while plants under low K+ decreased the osmotic potential and showed dehydration leaf signs. Leaf sap oxalic acid concentration increased in parallel to leaf sap K+ concentration and leaf sap fructose and glucose decreased with the increase of the K+ level in the nutrient solution.
24126144|In a model breeding program Rdr1, a gene conferring resistance to black spot (Diplocarpon rosae Wolf) was introduced from a wild rose species into the genetic background of cultivated tetraploid roses. The chromosomal set of the original diploid donor genotype, a Rosa multiflora hybrid, was doubled via colchicine treatment and crossed to a tetraploid hybrid tea variety. The resulting hybrid genotype, 91/100-5, was crossed to a Floribunda garden rose and the resulting progeny was tested for black spot resistance. AFLP markers were then used to screen a subset of the resistant progeny for the fraction of donor genome, which segregates from 32 to 84 % in this population. The genotype with the smallest number of donor-specific markers was further backcrossed to the Floribunda parent and the hybrid tea grandparent, and the analyses conducted in the previous generation were repeated. The BC2 population segregated for the fraction of the original donor genome, ranging from 12.3 % to 32 %. A parallel screen for morphological markers in the BCi demonstrated the superiority of the molecular markers for the reduction of the genetic background of wild rose species in introgression programs allowing a more efficient utilization of wild rose germplasm. In einem Modellzuchtversuch wurde das Resistenzgen Rdr1, welches Resistenz gegen den Sternrutau an Rosen vermittelt, in den genetischen Hintergrund von Kulturrosen eingekreuzt. Der Chromosomensatz einer resistenten diploiden Donorlinie wurde durch eine Colchizinbehandlung verdoppelt und der daraus resultierende tetraploide Genotyp mit einer tetraploiden Teehybride gekreuzt. Die daraus hervorgehende resistente Hybride 91/100-5 wurde in der nchsten Generation mit einer Floribunda Gartenrose gekreuzt und die Nachkommenschaft auf Sternrutauresistenz geprft. Der resistente Anteil dieser Nachkommenschaft wurde dann mit AFLP-Markern untersucht um Individuen mit einem mglichst kleinen Anteil des Donorgenoms zu identifizieren. Dieser Genomanteil spaltet in der Nachkommenschaft von 32 % bis 84 % auf. Der Genotyp mit dem geringsten Anteil des Donorgenoms wurde zum Floribunda-Elter und zum Teehybriden-Groelter rckgekreuzt und die Analysen auf Sternrutauresistenz wiederholt. Unter den resistenten Nachkommen spaltet der Anteil des Donorgenoms von 12,3 % bis 32 % auf. Paralleluntersuchungen morphologischer Marker in der BC1 zeigen, dass molekulare Marker morphologischen Bonituren zur Bestimmung des Anteils des Donorgenoms berlegen sind.
24126787|Tipburn is a physiological leaf disorder that reduces the quality of a cut flower production of Eustoma in the greenhouse. The disorder may be affected by environmental factors, and in several experiments we have studied if relative air humidity (RH), daily lighting period, photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD), and calcium (Ca) fertilization affect the incidence of tipburn and Ca content of the leaves. Constant high RH or a few hours of high RH at night caused a higher incidence of tipburn than a low RH. High PPFD or a long lighting period caused tipburn only at high RH. Incidence and severity of tipburn differed in the cultivars tested. The onset of tipburn symptom appeared in the young developing leaves from one to two weeks before until after visible flower bud development. Plants that took longer time to flower and gained high shoot biomass also had a higher incidence of tipburn than those flowering early and with a low shoot biomass. There was always less Ca in leaf tips with tipburn than in those without, and the threshold level for visible symptoms seemed to be 3.5 mg g-1 leaf dry weight. High Ca concentrations in the nutrient solution increased the Ca content in the whole leaf, but had little or no effect on incidence of tipburn. In conclusion, tipburn in Eustoma was an effect of constant high RH, high RH at night, or high dry matter accumulation per plant. These factors influenced the translocation of Ca to the leaf tips. Spitzenbrune ist eine physiologische Blattkrankheit, die die Qualitt der im Gewchshaus produzierten Schnittblumen von Eustoma vermindert. Die Strung scheint durch Umweltfaktoren verursacht zu sein. In zahlreichen Experimenten wurde hier untersucht, ob die relative Luftfeuchte (RH), die tgliche Belichtungsdauer, die Photonenflussdichte (PPFD) und die Calciumdngung (Ca) das Auftreten von Spitzendrre und den Ca-Gehalt der Bltter beeinflusst. Konstant hohe RH oder hohe RH whrend einiger Nachtstunden fhrte hufiger zu Spitzendrre. Eine hohe PPFD oder eine lange Belichtungsdauer fhrte nur bei hoher RH zu Spitzendrre. Auftreten und Schwere des Befalls variierten bei den untersuchten Sorten. Die ersten Symptome der Spitzendrre traten in der Phase 12 Wochen vor bis nach Sichtbarwerden der Knospen auf. Bei Pflanzen, die spter zur Blte kamen und mehr Sprossbiomasse entwickelten, trat hufiger Spitzendrre auf als bei frhblhenden mit geringerer Sprossmasse. Pflanzen mit Spitzendrre wiesen immer weniger Ca in den Blattspitzen auf als Pflanzen ohne Symptome. Der Schwellenwert fr sichtbare Symptome scheint bei 3.5 mg g-1 Blatttrockengewicht zu liegen. Hohe Ca-Konzentrationen in der Nhrlsung erhhte den Ca-Gehalt im ganzen Blatt, hatte aber wenig oder keinen Einfluss auf das Auftreten der Spitzendrre. Zusammenfassend kann gesagt werden,, dass Spitzendrre an Eustoma eine Folge von konstant hoher RH, hoher RH whrend der Nacht oder hohem Trockenmassenaufbau pro Pflanze war. Diese Faktoren beeinflussten den Transport des Ca in die Blattspitzen.
24126363|We developed 12 new sequence characterized markers from Begonia  tuberhybrida Voss. Total of 37 alleles ranged from two to six with expected heterozygosity HE=0.52, observed heterozygosity HO=0.58, and probability of identity PI=0.31, in average per a locus. Probability of identity combined over all 12 loci was PI=0.03. Four out of 12 loci expressed significant departures from HWE. Cross-species transferability was evaluated on the panel of 15 botanical species of Begonia. Total of 25.3 % cross-species amplification indicated rather low transferability of markers from B.  tuberhybrida to other Begonia species, which confirms the requirement of species-specific approach to development of Begonia markers.
24126294|The effect of increasing concentrations of NaCl in nutrient solution on the antioxidant capacity and other fruit quality attributes of raspberry (Rubus idaeus L.) was investigated. The plants were grown in perlite under protected cultivation and at pink fruit stage were supplied with Hoagland nutrient solution supplemented with 0, 10, 20, 30 and 60 mM NaCl for a period of 10 days, following another 10 d without the addition of NaCl. During application of NaCl, the antioxidant capacity, vitamin C content, total phenolics, soluble solids concentration, titratable acidity and dry matter content of fruits increased but the increase was not proportional to the salt concentration in the solution. During the post-application period these characteristics were reduced to the level measured in the non-saliniszed plants except for ascorbic acid content and total phenolics, which remained at significantly higher levels. Also antioxidant capacity was only reduced at the end of the post application period. The anthocyanin content was not influenced by the salinity treatments. Results suggest that salinity, especially at low levels, may enhance the production of antioxidant substances in raspberry fruits and therefore their potential health benefits.
24126356|One of the main objectives of using plastic mulch is to increase soil temperature. However, under high temperature conditions some plastic mulches warm the soil to temperatures that might be harmful to plant growth. A 2-year study was carried out in northern Hungary (Gdll) to determine the optimal colour of the plastic mulch for sweet pepper under specific, unsettled climatic circumstances, in some years with high temperature conditions. The increase of soil temperature caused by certain mulches was the same in both years. In case of light, coloured mulches (clear, violet, light green) the soil temperature was 2.52.9 C higher than in case of the un-mulched control. The dark coloured mulches (black, dark green, red) caused 1.42.1 C soil temperature increase compared to the un-mulched control. The rate of soil temperature values optimal for sweet pepper (between 20 and 30 C) was the highest in case of dark coloured mulches. Due to the warmer weather in 2003 the soil warmed up under the clear and violet mulches extremely, which had a harmful effect on vegetative growth and yield. According to the higher soil temperatures mulched treatments produced higher yields than the un-mulched treatment except the clear mulch in 2003. The use of dark coloured mulches is the safest solution in the examined region because even in case of high air temperature and solar radiation the soil does not warm to a harmful degree. Eine der wichtigsten Ziele der Anwendung von Mulchfolien ist die Erhhung der Bodentemperatur. Bei einer hohen Lufttemperatur und Sonneneinstrahlung erwrmen einige Mulchfolien den Boden sogar in dem Mae, dass das Wachstum der Pflanzen schon negativ beeinflusst werden kann. Ein zweijhriger Versuch wurde in Nordungarn durchgefhrt, um die optimale Farbe der Mulchfolie fr Gemsepaprika in einem Gebiet mit spezifischen, wechselhaften Klimaverhltnissen, in einigen Jahren mit besonders hohen Lufttemperaturen und starker Sonneneinstrahlung zu bestimmen. Die verwendeten Mulchfolien erwrmten den Boden in beiden Jahren in gleichem Masse. Bei den hellen (durchsichtigen, lila, hellgrnen) Mulchfolien war die Bodentemperatur 2,52,9 C hher als bei der unbedeckten Kontrollgruppe. Die dunkelfarbigen (schwarzen, dunkelgrnen, roten) Mulchfolien fhrten zu einer Steigerung der Bodentemperatur von 1,42,1 C im Vergleich zu der unbedeckten Kontrollbehandlung. Die Hufigkeit der fr den Gemsepaprika optimalen Bodentemperaturwerte (zwischen 20 und 30 C) war bei den dunkelfarbigen Mulchfolien am grten. In dem wrmeren Jahr 2003 erwrmte sich der Boden unter den durchsichtigen und den lila Mulchfolien zu sehr, was schon eine negative Wirkung auf das Wachstum und den Ertrag der Pflanzen hatte. Wegen der hheren Bodentemperatur wiesen die bedeckten Behandlungen hhere Ertrge auf als die unbedeckten, die durchsichtige Mulchfolie ausgenommen. Aufgrund unserer Ergebnisse ist in dem untersuchten Gebiet die Verwendung von dunkelfarbigen Mulchfolien am sichersten, weil sich unter ihnen der Boden bei einer hohen Lufttemperatur und starker Sonneneinstrahlung nicht in schdlichem Masse erwrmt.
24126627|In this study the influence of prohexadione-Calcium (Pro-Ca) treatment on peel colour development and polyphenol metabolism of apples during advanced maturity was investigated. Apple trees were treated 3 weeks before technological maturity. Changes in the content of hydroxycinnamic acids, dihydrochalcones, flavonols, flavanols and anthocyanins were monitored six times during the advanced maturation until technological maturity of the fruits. To evaluate the effect of Pro-Ca on the coloration of apples, the changes in the chromaticy values a*, h and the lightness coefficient L* were monitored. The parameters showed a significant difference in the intensity of red coloration between the treated and untreated apples. The application of Pro-Ca led to a decrease in the enzyme activities of the 2-oxoglutarate dependent dioxygenases flavanone-3-hydroxylase (FHT) and flavonol synthase (FLS), and the flavonoid pathway was negatively affected in general. Concomitantly, the concentrations of flavonols, anthocyanins and dihydrochalcones in the peel of treated apples decreased, whereas the contents of total phenolic compounds and hydroxycinnamic acids increased. Flavanol contents, however, remained unchanged. In apple pulp, slightly higher concentrations of all phenolic compounds were measured in the treated apples compared to the control on the majority of sampling dates. The results indicate that Pro-Ca modulates the polyphenol spectrum resulting in a pronounced decrease of red coloration during advanced maturation of apples. Pro-Ca therefore to some extent exhibits the potential to avoid undesired red coloration of apple fruit.
24126521|The effect of CO2 concentration on the carbon dioxide exchange rate (CER) was studied in small plant stands of cucumber for 12 hours a day-1 in three experiments (Exp.) conducted in summer. A photon flux density (PFD) of 300 mol m-2 s-1 of supplementary light was provided in addition to daylight, except for during the middle of the day (12.0017.00). The photoperiod was 20 hours per day-1 (02.0022.00). In Exp. 1, an increase in CO2 concentration from 380 to 800 mol mol-1 from 08.00 until 20.00 increased CER by about 30 % during the period, irrespective of the PFD. In Exp. 2, a decrease in CO2 concentration from 380 to 210 mol mol-1 during the same period reduced the CER by 2036 %, with an increasingly negative effect towards the end of the period. Measured at the same CO2 concentration during the first hours of the photoperiod (02.0008.00) and at end of the photoperiod (20.0022.00), the CER was the same in both plant stands in both experiments. In Exp. 3, an increase in the CO2 concentration from 800 to 1200 mol mol-1 during the same 12-hour period increased CER much more early in the period (28 %) than late in the period (7 %). Measured at the same CO2 concentration, the CER of the 1200 mol mol-1 exposed plants was 12 % lower at end of the photoperiod (20.0022.00) compared with the control plants, but the same during the first part of the photoperiod (02.0008.00). CER increased with increasing PFD in all three experiments. In a fourth experiment, CER was measured at three different temperatures throughout the day in three different plant stands. Supplementary light (300 mol m-2 s-1 PFD) was provided for 20 hours per day-1. When 800 mol mol-1 CO2 was combined with moderate PFD levels (about 300 mol m-2 s-1), the CER was the same at 25 and 30 C, decreasing at 35 C. At a high PFD level (about 750 mol m-2 s-1) and intermediate CO2 level (500 mol mol-1), the CER was the same irrespective of temperature. When the CO2 concentration decreased to 300 mol mol-1, the CER decreased with increasing temperature.
24126148|Postharvest quality of Eustoma grandiflorum (Raf.) Shinn. was investigated after growing plants at different photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD), lighting periods, supplements of lime to the peat medium and different levels of boron fertilization. The plants were harvested at three open flowers and were placed in glass bottles with 500 ml vase solution of the desired preservatives under the following conditions: 21 C, 45 % relative humidity (RH) and 12-h photoperiod with a PPFD of 15 mol m-2 s-1 provided by white fluorescent tubes. Wilted flowers, leaves and buds were recorded every day and postharvest life was evaluated. In general, an increase in preharvest PPFD level increased the vase life. In our first experiment, the plants grown with a 20-h lighting period under a low PPFD (60 pmol m-2 s-1) with high RH (90 %) in the canopy showed the shorter vase life than those grown under a high light level (240 mol m-2 s-1) and low RH (70 %). In the second experiment, a few hours of high Rid at the canopy level during night with a 16-h lighting period and a PPFD of 240 mol m-2 s-1 resulted in a shorter vase life than 24-h and constant low RH. When temperature and RH were better controlled in a third experiment under a PPFD of 105 mol m-2 s-1, the vase life was slightly longer in stems from 16-h than from 24-h lighting period. Compared to their long vase life (26 to 28 days), the differences (24 days), however, must be regarded as small, and we therefore suggest that there is no adverse effect of 24-h lighting on vase life. Vase life was only affected when the commercial preservative Chrysal Clear (CC) or sucrose with 8-hydroxyquinoline sulphate (HQS) was used in the vase solution, and not when either sucrose or HQS was compared with the water control (reverse osmosis water). These results suggest that high PPFD, long lighting period, low RH during the growing period and use of sugar combined with HQS in the vase solution, are all important factors for prolonging the vase life of Eustoma. Die Nacherntequalitt von Eustoma grandiflorum (Raf.) Shinn. wurde an Pflanzen untersucht, die zuvor bei unterschiedlichen Photonenflussdichten (PPFD), Belichtungszeiten, Zugaben von Kalk zum Torfsubstrat und unterschiedlichen Bordngestufen kultiviert worden waren. Die Pflanzen wurden geerntet, sobald drei Blten geffnet waren und in 500 ml Glasflaschen mit Wasser, dem das jeweilige Haltbarkeitsmittel zugefgt wurde, bei 21 C, 45 % relativer Feuchte (RH) und 12-h Licht mit einer PPFD von 15 mol m-2 s-1 aus weien Leuchtstoffrhren, aufgestellt. Welke Blten, Bltter und Knospen wurden jeden Tag erfasst und die Haltbarkeit ermittelt. Im Allgemeinen verlngerte eine hhere PPFD die Haltbarkeit. Im ersten Versuch, wiesen die Pflanzen, die im 20-Stunden-Tag mit geringer PPFD (60 mol m-2 s-1) und hoher RH (90 %) im Blattbereich kultiviert wurden, eine geringere Haltbarkeit auf als jene, deren Kultur bei Starklicht (240 mol m-2 s-1) und geringerer RH (70 %) durchgefhrt wurde. Im zweiten Versuch fhrten wenige Nachtstunden mit hoher RH im Blattbereich in Verbindung mit einer 16-h-Belichtungsdauer und einer PPFD von 240 mol m-2 s-1 zu geringerer Haltbarkeit als 24-h Licht und konstant geringer RH. Als Temperatur und RH im dritten Versuch besser kontrolliert wurden, war die Haltbarkeit bei einer PPFD von 105 mol m-2 s-1 nach einem 16-h Tag besser als nach einem 24-h Tag. Bezogen auf die lange Haltbarkeit (26 bis 28 Tage) muss eine Verlngerung um 24 Tage allerdings als gering angesehen werden, so dass wir vorschlagen, nicht von einer negativen Wirkung des 24-Stunden-Tages auf die Haltbarkeit zu sprechen. Das Aufkalken des Torfsubstrats oder die Dngung mit Bor hatte keine signifikante Wirkung auf die Haltbarkeit. Die Haltbarkeit wurde nur beeinflusst, wenn das Handelsprodukt Chrysal Clear (CC) oder Saccharose in Kombination mit 8-Hydroxyquinolinsulfat (HQS) fr das Vasenwasser verwendet wurden. Bei alleiniger Verwendung von Saccharose oder HQS wurden im Vergleich zur Kontrolle (Umkehrosmosewasser) keine Unterschiede sichtbar. Die gefundenen Ergebnisse zeigen, dass sowohl hohe PPFD, lange Belichtungszeiten, geringe RH in der Wachstumsphase als auch die Verwendung von Saccharose in Kombination mit HQS im Vasenwasser wichtige Faktoren zur Verlngerung der Haltbarkeit von Eustoma sind.
24126453|The role of ethylene on ranunculus cut flower senescence was investigated. Ten Ranunculus asiaticus cultivars ('Pluto', 'Juny', 'Shangai', 'Auriga', 'Bianco2', 'Ken', 'Dido', 'Lul', 'Saigon' and 'Green') were treated with 2 mM silver thiosulfate (STS), 4 mM amino-oxyacetic acid (AOA), and 377 nL L-1 1-methylcyclopropene (1-MCP, Ethylbloc) for 14 h and with 8 L L-1 ethylene for both 14 and 72 h. Evaluation of postharvest performance was based on: visual check for symptoms of senescence alteration (VS), stem fresh weight (FW), petal colour, ethylene production, and leaf chlorophyll content. Results showed genotype differences for all parameters. Senescence was usually reached about 13 d after the beginning of the experiment. In untreated flowers, 'Green' was the longest-lived (16.2 d) and 'Lul' the shortest-lived (11.1 d). Statistical analysis showed an interaction between cultivar and treatment. In general, AOA and STS treated flowers lasted more than the control. These molecules are inhibitors of ethylene biosynthesis or ethylene action respectively. However, they can also act as antibacterial agents. More in detail, AOA extended the longevity in four out of ten cultivars ('Lul', 'Pluto', 'Bianco2' and 'Green') and STS in two ('Pluto' and 'Bianco2'). Exogenous ethylene application did not negatively affect any of the investigated cultivars. Overall it can be concluded that the new ranunculus cultivars tested are ethylene insensitive. Therefore special precautions against exposure to ethylene are not needed.
24127090|In the Tyrrhenian coastal area, frequent late frosts have occurred during the last ten years. The most severe event happened in 2003, causing a strong reduction in yield, above all in stone fruit species. However, several apricot selections, from different breeding sources, had a considerable yield, as a consequence of high flower and/or young fruit survival. The aim of this research was to evaluate the degree of tolerance to spring frost of ten selections and their own parents. During three subsequent years, the frost sensitivity of flower buds at dormant and swelling phenological stages was determined using the Phenolic Compound Leakage (PCL) test after an artificial frost treatment (-4 C). When this temperature was applied to flower buds at the dormant stage did not cause significant injuries, as indicated by the low PCL values. At the pre-flowering stages a significant increase in PCL was observed in most genotypes. On the basis of different levels of PCL, the genotypes were classified into three groups in relation to their frost sensitivity: i) very frost-tolerant; ii) frost-tolerant and iii) frost-sensitive. Within the very frost-tolerant group, the selections 7C 20/3, 11/48/7 and 11/19/2, were the best genotypes confirming a good yield performance recorded after the severe spring frost of 2003.
24126630|This study was carried out searching for alternative substrates to traditional peat based on river waste and Sphagnum and Carex peat from Argentinean peatlands and used to grow Impatiens waUerana bedding plant. The aim of this study was i) to characterize physical and chemical effects from seven growing media on I. wallerana plants grown under different fertilization rates and ii) to describe the physiological mechanisms in plants, involved in the use of such substrates. Particle stability was lower for the six alternative substrates compared to the Canadian peat-base control substrate. However, with a high fertilization dose it is possible to reach non significant differences in plant growth compared to the control substrate. It is suggested, for future research, that nitrogen signalling associated to cytokinin synthesis by roots is involved.
24126352|Phenylpropanoids are involved in natural defence reactions of apple (Malus domestica) against various diseases. An induced phenylpropanoid biosynthesis prior to pathogen attack may, therefore, support resistance mechanisms. In two model systems, the induction of phenylpropanoid biosynthesis was investigated under different light and carbohydrate conditions and after abiotic stressor treatment by measuring the activity of the key enzyme phenylalanine ammonia lyase and by estimating the accumulation of chlorogenic acid and flavan 3-ols. It could be demonstrated that Milsana Tee, Mycosan, lime sulphure, Triton-X-100 and 2,6-dichloroisonicotinic acid (INA) may act as elicitors of phenylpropanoid biosynthesis and are, therefore, candidates for resistance induction in apple. Phenylpropanoide sind beteiligt an natrlichen Abwehrreaktionen des Apfels (Malus domestica) gegen verschiedene Pathogene. Eine Induktion der Phenylpropanoidbiosynthese vor Infektionen knnte deshalb die Resistenzreaktionen untersttzen. In Modellsystemen wurden potentielle Induktoren auf Apfelbltter appliziert und ihr Effekt auf die Aktivitt des Schlsselenzyms Phenylalaninammonium-Lyase gemessen sowie auf die Akkumulation der Chlorogensure und Flavan 3-ole. Dabei wurden auch Licht und Kohlenhydratversorgung variiert. Es konnte gezeigt werden, dass Milsana Tee, Mycosan, Netzschwefel, Triton-X-100 und 2,6-Dichloroisonicotinsure (INA) als Elicitoren des Phenylpropanoidstoffwechsles agieren knnen und damit als Resistenzinduktoren in Frage kommen.
24126342|Knowledge about pest-host plant relationships is important for effective pest control in greenhouse crop production. Mathematical models may help to qualify and quantify these relationships and may therefore be used as prediction tools in decision support systems. In the current study, population dynamics of the polyphagous pest Frankliniella occidentals (Western Flower Thrips) were investigated on greenhouse grown chrysanthemum and a dynamic prediction model was established. Previously published data were used to simulate thrips development. Thrips population growth was mainly dependent on temperature, population density and food availability. The damaged leaf area, caused by the pest infestation, was simulated separately. Greenhouse experiments were conducted at three different temperatures to be able to compare different plant and population growth patterns. Thrips samples were taken during the whole cultivation period and Larvae and adult thrips were summarized as pest individuals in the population. The model fitted the data well during the early population growth phase but underestimated population decay, due to the lack of migrations possibilities (cage experiments), at high temperatures.
24126508|The selection of appropriate rootstock plays an important role in designing a new orchard or in renewing an old one. The identification of rootstocks that cope well in replant soil is therefore necessary to maintain similar production capacity and fruit quality of peach orchards. We have evaluated ten peach rootstocks planted in virgin and replant soil by monitoring tree vigour, yield efficiency, effect on fruit maturity and quality parameters, through two growing seasons. Maturation was affected by rootstock, and Julior appeared to delay fruit maturity. All rootstocks produced higher quality fruit in virgin soil, which was reflected in higher contents of sugars compared to replant soil. Barrier 1, GF 677 and peach seedlings adapted best to virgin soil conditions. For replant conditions, Adesoto, Tetra and Penta rootstocks showed the greatest potential.
24126224|The objective of this research was to determine the suitability of river waste as an amendment for low quality peat in container growth media. Physical and chemical properties of the river waste and Argentinean peat were determined, and the ability of the media to support Gypsophila muralis plant growth was evaluated. Once river waste was added to the Argentinean peat, total porosity and dry weight increased. The best combination of different amounts of the components was also determined.
24126869|The use of transplants is the most reliable method to ensure adequate crop establishment of commercial plantings of most ornamental bedding crops; however, in plants grown in small pots, root growth restrictions often occur. The aim of this work was to determine the dry weight accumulation processes involved in the root restriction generated by a decrease in plug cell volume under the hypothesis that cytokinins synthesized by roots are part of the mechanism of Impatiens walleriana aerial biomass accumulation which can be partially overriding by an early BAP spray during the propagation stage in plug trays. Our results showed that I. walleriana aerial biomass productivity is related to root dry weight; the higher total dry weight of the controls grown in 50 plug cell trays is related to higher relative growth rate (RGR) as a result of an increase in net assimilation rate (NAR) and leaf area ratio (LAR). On the other hand, the smaller cell volume the higher photosynthate partitioning to roots. I. walleriana dry weight accumulation and photosynthate partitioning were changed in response to different BAP sprays doses (5 to 200 mg L-1) and application stages, but the magnitude of the changes were associated to the cell volume too.
24126208|A 2-year study was carried out in the Vrana Valley in the Mediterranean part of Croatia to evaluate the effects of application of different mulching materials (black polyethylene film, clear photodegradable polyethylene film and paper biodegradable cellulose mulch) and irrigation systems (drip and micro irrigation) in watermelon (Citrullus lanatus L.) cultivation. Mean daily soil temperatures were converted to heat units (HU) on each treatment and the research confirmed that mulching of soil with polyethylene materials raises the soil temperature. Early in the season, during the first five weeks of watermelon growth soil mulched with clear film was the warmest, its temperature being significandy higher than in other treatments. Mulching with polyethylene materials enabled an earlier harvest compared to the control and paper, which was naturally due to more rapid initial plant growth. The highest watermelon yields were achieved on black film and drip irrigation (104.5 tons per hectare in 1995 and 79 tons per hectare in 1996). Clear film held its mulching function during first five weeks of the growing season in both years. Paper reduced soil temperature that resulted in lower soil temperature, slower plant growth and later harvest in comparison with polyethylene mulch treatments. Regarding the irrigation system applied, the higher yields were achieved with drip irrigation in both trial years. Die zweijhrige Untersuchung wurde im Vrana-Tal im kroatischen Mittelmeerraum zum Zweck der Auswertung von Aus- und Nachwirkungen der Verwendung von verschiedenen Mulchmaterialien (schwarzer Polyethylenfilm, lichtabbaubare Polyethylen-Klarsichtsfolte, biologisch abbaubarer Zellstoffmulch) und Bewsserungssystemen (Trpfchen- und Mikrobewsserung) beim Anbau von Wassermelonen (Citrullus lanatus L.) durchgefhrt. Die Bodentemperaturen wurden zu Tagesmittelwerten verdichtet. Diese wurden in Wrmeeinheiten (HU) umgerechnet, wobei die Basistemperatur 12.8 C betrug. Whrend der ersten fnf Wochen der Kultur erwies sich der mit Klarsichtsfolie gemulchte Boden als der wrmste; seine Temperatur war wesentlich hher als bei den anderen Verfahren. Die Bodenbedeckung mit Polyethylen-Kunststoffen erbrachte im Vergleich zum Kontroll- verfahren und zur Papiermulch eine frhere Ernte, was natrlich die Folge eines schnelleren initialen Pflanzenwachstums war. Die hchsten Wassermelonenertrge wurden bei Verwerdung von schwarzer Polyethylenfolie und bei Trpfchenbewsserung (104.5 t ha-1 im Jahre 1995 sowie 79 t ha-1 im Jahre 1996) erzielt. Die Polyethylen-Klarsichtsfolie behielt whrend beider Versuchsjahre ihre Mulchfunktion. Durch den Einsatz von Zellulosemulch (Papier) wurde die Bodentemperatur im Vergleich zu den Varianten erniedrigt, wodurch das Wachstum verlangsamt und der Erntebeginn verzgert wurde. Im Hinblick auf das angewendete Bewsserungssystem wurden durch Trpfchenbewsserung in beiden Versuchsjahren hhere Ertrge erzielt.
24126888|The 'Abate Fetel' pear is a clear example of a premium fruit cultivar that requires a consistently high quality level. This research focused on the effects of key variables of fruit industry decision-making, including agronomic options (harvest date), commercial value (fruit diameter) and marketing (time of commercial distribution). The analysis was conducted using a combination of instrumental measures, trained panel evaluations and consumer acceptance tests. Our results encourage planning consumer tests to support quality research.
24126312|Strawberry growth in Northern Europe is limited by a combination of drought, low temperatures, spring and winter frosts, the latter particularly without snow cover, resulting in a short vegetation period. Hence, the influence of temperature sums, cultivars, and blossom weevil Anthonomus rubi on fruit mass and yield were examined during 19992003 in Estonia. Strawberry cv. 'Korona' required the lowest temperature sum (>10 C) for flowering and cv. 'Kent' for ripening out of the four cultivars tested, i.e. 'Senga Sengana', 'Kent', 'Korona' and 'Polka', while cv. 'Polka' withstood extreme conditions like drought, high temperature and spring frosts with the retention of a good fruit yield. Temperature sums were found a suitable approach to describe the ecophysiological adaptation of strawberry plants to the harsh climate in Northern Europe. Wachstum und Ertrag von Erdbeeren in Nordeuropa werden durch geringe Temperaturen wie Spt- und Winterfrste  vor allem in Zeiten ohne Schneeauflage  und durch kurze Vegetationszeiten begrenzt. Daher sollte der Einfluss von Temperatursummen ber 10 C auf Wachstum und Fruchtertrag in Abhngigkeit von Sorte und Bltenbildung und dem Erdbeerbltenstecher Anthonomus rubi in einem fnfjhrigen Feldversuch in Estland untersucht werden. Von den vier untersuchten Sorten  einschlielich 'Senga Sengana' als Kontrolle  bentigte 'Korona' zum Blhen und 'Kent' zur Fruchtreife die geringste Temperatursumme. Von den vier Erdbeersorten war 'Polka' am wenigsten anfllig gegenber Trockenheit und Temperaturextremen wie Frsten. Temperatursummen erwiesen sich als geeignetes Mittel zur Ermitdung der kophysiologischen Anpassungsmglichkeiten einer Erdbeersorte an die harten Anbaubedingungen Nordeuropas.
24126309|Changes in the percentage and time of germination at various temperatures (15, 25, 35 C) and ABA (abscisic acid) content of pepper seeds harvested at 50, 60, 70 and 80 DAA (days after an thesis) were studied during growing seasons in 2001 and 2002. Seed dry mass ranged from 4.9 to 5.2 mg per seed in 2001, and from 4.7 to 5.0 mg per seed in 2002. However, seeds harvested at 70 DAA not only had maximum germination percentages, but also showed the lowest mean germination time for all three temperatures in both years. Delayed harvest (80 DAA) decreased germination percentages as a result of stress, and promoted viviparous germination in the mother plant. ABA content of the seeds increased gradually up to maturity, with values of 226 ng g-1 fresh weight (ng g-1 FW) at 70 DAA in 2001, and 203 ng g-1 FW at 60 DAA in 2002. It declined to a level between 85 and 90 ng g-1 FW in the final harvest of the both years. Germination at stressful temperatures and ABA contents of the pepper seeds with respect to seed development are discussed. Whrend der Vegetationsperioden 2001 und 2002 wurden die nderungen der Keimrate und der Keimdauer bei unterschiedlichen Temperaturen (15, 25, 35 C) sowie der ABA- (Abscisinsure) Gehalt von Paprikasaatgut, das 50, 60, 70 und 80 DAA (Tage nach der Anthese) geerntet worden war, untersucht. 2001 betrug die Samentrockenmasse 4.95.2 mg und 2002 4.75.0 mg pro Samen. In beiden Jahren wies das 70 DAA geerntete Saatgut bei allen drei Temperaturen die hchste Keimrate und die geringste durchschnittliche Keimdauer auf. Die sptere Ernte (80 DAA) reduzierte die Keimrate in Folge von Stress und frderte vivipare Keimung an der Mutterpflanze. Der ABA-Gehalt der Samen stieg bis zur Reife stufenweise an mit Werten, die 2001 226 ng g-1 Frischgewicht ( ng g-1 FW) bei 70 DAA und 2002 203 ng g-1 FW bei 60 DAA betrugen. Zum Zeitpunkt der letzten Ernte sank er in beiden Jahren auf einen Wert von 8590 ng g-1 FW ab. Die Keimung bei Stresstemperaturen und der ABA-Gehalt von Paprikasaatgut wird in Zusammenhang mit der Samenentwicklung wird diskutiert.
24126161|The response of in vitro grown apple plantlets onto the treatment with the growth retardant prohexadione-Ca is demonstrated with regards to their secondary metabolism and under the influence of N nutrition. Reported prohexadione-Ca induced changes of the flavonoid composition were the formation of the uncommon 3-deoxycatechin luteoliflavan, a decrease of catechins, procyanidins and flavonols, which was also observed in our experiments on 'Royal Gala' and 'Golden Delicious'. The extent of effects, however, was markedly modified by N-nutrition of the plantlets. In general, high N-nutrition reduces the amount of total phenolic compounds in apple leaves whereas low N supply favours the accumulation of flavonoids and the formation of resistance related compounds after prohexadione-Ca treatment. Die Vernderungen des Sekundrstoffwechsel von in vitro-kultivierten Apfel-Sprosskulturen nach Behandlung mit dem Wachstumsregulator Prohexadion-Ca und unter dem Einfluss der N-Ernhrung werden demonstriert. Erwartete Effekte bezglich der Flavonoidgehalte waren die Bildung des fr den Apfel ungewhnlichen 3-Deoxycatechins Luteoliflavan sowie eine Reduktion der Konzentrationen von Catechinen, Procyanidinen und Flavonolen, die in den vorgestellten Experimenten an 'Royal Gala' und 'Golden Delicious' auch beobachtet wurden. Das Ausma der Effekte wurde aber stark durch die N-Ernhrung modifiziert. Im Allgemeinen reduziert hohe N-Versorgung die Konzentration der phenolischen Verbindungen insgesamt, wohingegen eine mavolle N-Ernhrung die Akkumulation von Flavonoiden begnstigt und auch die Bildung der durch Prohexadion-Ca-Behandlung induzierten Verbindungen, die mit Resistenzreaktionen korrelieren, untersttzt.
24126389|The genus Campanula is composed of over 300 species but only a few of them are used as cut flowers. In order to diversify the production and to exploit local plants with potential ornamental characteristics, ethylene action and three treatments for extending the vase life were evaluated in Campanula barbata L., C. latifolia L., C. rapunculoides L. and C. trachelium L. Cut stems were subjected to the following treatments: 1-methylcyclopropene (1-MCP), reut in tap water at 90 C, Chrysal Clear, or ethylene and compared to one control in tap water. Pre-treatment with 1.14 L L-1 1-MCP, an inhibitor of ethylene action, for 6 h increased the vase life based on visual check for symptoms of senescence alterations, without any visible toxic effects. In particular, in C. barbata the average flower longevity was 4.2 d, twice longer than the other preservative treatments. In this species, 1-MCP treatment preserved more also the petal colour (L*=-1.50, a*=-1.07, b*=4.41), measured by means of a spectrophotometer. However, exogenously applied ethylene did not decrease bellflower vase life and gas chromatography analysis did not detect any endogenous ethylene production. This suggests that Campanula cut flowers are ethylene responsive but more sensitive protocols for studying ethylene action are needed. Considering the different species, C. rapunculoides resulted the most promising bellflower for its intrinsic ornamental and physiological characteristics.
24126283|The response to Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. melonis (F.o.m.) race 1 of 79 Cucumis melo L. genotypes - 56 accessions collected from different parts of Turkey, 5 local cultivars and 18 foreign genotypes - was determined by using pathogenicity tests and RAPD markers (E07 and G17). For pathogenicity tests, at least 15 individuals of each melon genotype were artificially inoculated by either conidia suspension culture or sand culture of F.o.m. race 1. Melon seedlings were evaluated on a 03 scale for the presence of vascular browning two weeks after inoculation with conidia suspension culture resp. four weeks after inoculation with sand culture. The disease incidence on the 79 melon genotypes ranged from 0 to 100 %. Seven melon genotypes were resistant (CU129, CU258, T8, Y9, Y10, Y15, and Y63), three melon genotypes (CU280, CU309, and T1) were heterogeneous, and all the others were susceptible to F.o.m. race 1 based on disease incidence and vascular browning. The success of the E07 marker in detecting susceptible genotypes was higher than that of G17; the mistmatch ratios of E07 and G17 markers were 5.06 and 58.23 %, respectively.
24126478|The study of root growth and development is a difficult branch of research due to the lack of accurate methodologies. All the approaches used until now to study root dynamics involve a profound disruption of the root environment causing approximations that compromise research goals. Before the technique reported here was developed, there were few commercially available software packages able to identify, measure and report root parameters as extensively. The scope of our work was to design software that would generate accurate and comprehensive data sets of root parameters such as number, length, diameter, area, volume, and branch number, angle, and hierarchy. Our aim was to generate accurate data at a lower resolution than the 12 pixels mm-1 (300 dots per inch) currently considered the minimum from several authors. DigiRoot is software for measurement of roots in any digital image format. The effects of resolution, orientation of the roots and method of image acquisition (scanned or photographed) on the software's accuracy were tested using objects of known diameters, lengths and angles. Of the previously mentioned test parameters, the only statistically significant effect was that of image resolution on root diameter. With minimal user interaction, DigiRoot accurately detects and analyzes roots as narrow as one pixel. The accuracy of the software decreases with decreased resolution, however its accuracy is still adequate at 1 pixel mm-1 (26 dpi). DigiRoot is new software available to researchers for the study of digital images of roots requiring a high level of accuracy even at low resolution. The software also provides results on branching hierarchy and angle of branch insertion.
24126272|Micropropagated 'Fuji' apple plants in Hoagland nutrient solution were subjected to water stress at different deficit intensities by regulating the osmotic potential of the solution with PEG-6000. Transport and distribution of 14C-assimilates among organs of previously water-stressed plants were compared with those under a normal water status by feeding leaves with 14CO2. Most 14C-assimilate was exported from the labelled leaves within 48 hours, and there were two peaks of export rate of 14C-assimilate in plants under a normal water status. No matter what deficit intensity was applied to the plants, water stress significantly decreased the export rate of 14C-assimilates from fed leaves, but did not modify the export patterns of 14C-assimilates. About 90 % of the 14C-assimilates exported from the labelled leaves within 48 hours were distributed in the above-ground parts of the plants under a normal water status while from one third to two thirds of the 14C-assimilates were transported from labelled leaves into the roots of the micropropagated plants under water stress depending on the deficit intensity. Moreover, water stress decreased the distribution coefficient (K) of 14C-assimilates in the shoot apex, and increased the Ks of the roots and the phloem of the plants. A lower K of the shoot apex of water stressed trees than that of well-watered ones may result in a decreased growth of shoots. The higher K of the roots of the plants under water stress may signify a stronger sink and also a greater reservoir of carbon assimilates in the roots than those of the plants under normal water situation. It is suggested that the K of the phloem within a short time after feeding the leaves with 14CO2 may only signify the quantity of 14C-assimilates transport to the roots or a temporary reservoir of carbon assimilates in the phloem. Mikrovermehrte und in Hoagland-Nhrlsung kultivierte Apfelpflanzen der Sorte 'Fuji' wurden unterschiedlichen Intensitten von Wasserstress ausgesetzt, wobei der osmotische Druck der Lsung mittels PEG-6000 verndert wurde. Durch die Zufhrung von 14CO2 ber die Bltter, konnte der Transport und die Verteilung der 14C-Assimilate in die Pflanzenteile von Pflanzen unter Wasserstress und Normalbedingungen verglichen werden. Der Groteil der 14C-Assimilate wurde innerhalb von 48 Stunden aus den markierten Blttern exportiert, dabei wies die Exportrate der normal versorgten Pflanzen zwei Peaks auf. Unabhngig vom Grad des Wasserdefizits, war die Exportrate aus den Blttern deutlich reduziert, ohne dabei das Exportmuster der 14C-Assimilate zu verndern. Bei normal versorgten Pflanzen wurden mehr als 90 % der innerhalb von 48 Stunden exportierten 14C-Assimilate in die oberidischen Pflanzenteile verbracht, wohingegen bei wassergestressten Pflanzen in Abhngigkeit vom Grad des Stresses zwischen einem und zwei Drittel der 14C-Assimilate in die Wurzeln transportiert wurde. Auerdem verringert Wasserstress den 14C-Assimilat-Verteilungskoeffizienten (K) in die Sprossspitze und erhht die Ks in die Wurzeln und das Phloem. Der geringere K in die Sprossspitzen bei wassergestressten Pflanzen knnte zu einem geringeren Sprosswachstum fhren. Der grere K in die Wurzeln wiederum knnte bei wassergestressten Pflanzen ein greres Sink und einen greren Kohlenstoffassimilatspeicher in den Wurzeln bewirken. Es scheint naheliegend, dass der K des Phloems zeitnah zur Zufhrung von 14CO2 nur einen Hinweis auf die Hhe des 14C-Assimilattransports in die Wurzeln oder einen zeitlich begrenzten Kohlenstoffassimilatspeicher im Phloem gibt.
24126179|Low-temperature disorders in nectarines (Prunus persica) can be delayed by storage in atmospheres containing elevated CO2; however, this benefit is limited to a few cultivars. The storage of produce at low temperatures itself leads to changes in protein synthesis; therefore, this study examined the applicability of 2-D electrophoresis to assess differences in protein production in cultivars of nectarine that either do ('Arctic Snow') or do not ('Red Gold') respond to elevated CO2 levels during storage. In addition, the effect of harvest maturity and their response to added ethylene was assessed. Fruit of the two cultivars were either ripened immediately after harvest at 20 C before protein extraction or stored in air, air + CO2, air + ethylene or air + CO2 + ethylene then ripened at 20 C before protein extraction. 2-D PAGE showed that the expression of approximately 30 proteins varied among cultivars and treatments. Two proteins showed clear differences in expression in both cultivars between fruit ripened immediately after harvest and those that had been stored. A second set of differences in protein expression was found in fruit of 'Red Gold' only and involved 12 proteins whose expression was either reduced or increased by storage: these proteins did not vary in expression in 'Arctic Snow'. A third set of differences in protein expression was observed in 'Arctic Snow' only in atmospheres containing ethylene. Several proteins were down-regulated by ethylene and this down-regulation was negated by the addition of CO2 to the storage atmosphere. Thus, differences in protein expression can be found between cultivars of nectarines that do or do not respond to the addition of CO2 to the storage atmosphere and in the cultivar that is known to respond to CO2, this gas was able to antagonise protein changes mediated by ethylene. Bei einigen wenigen Nektarinensorten (Prunus persica) knnen Klteschden durch die Zufuhr von CO2 zur Lageratmosphre hinausgezgert werden. Die Lagerung der Produkte bei niedrigen Temperaturen bewirkt allein schon nderungen in der Proteinsynthese. Aus diesem Grund wird hier die Anwendbarkeit der 2-D-Elektrophorese zur Erfassung der Unterschiede in der Proteinsynthese sowohl an Nektarinensorten, die auf die Erhhung des C02-Gehalts whrend der Lagerung reagieren ('Arctic Snow') als auch an solchen, die nicht reagieren ('Red Gold') untersucht. Zustzlich wird die Auswirkung der Reifung der Frchte und ihre Reaktion auf Ethylengaben ermittelt. Die Nachreife bei 20 C vor der Proteinextraktion erfolgte bei Frchten beider Sorten entweder sofort nach der Ernte oder im Anschluss an eine Lagerphase in Normalluft, in Normalluft + CO2, in Normalluft + Ethylen oder in Normalluft + CO2 + Ethylen. Die 2-D PAGE zeigte, dass die Expression von annhernd 30 Proteinen in Abhngigkeit von der Sorte und der Behandlung variierte. Zwei Proteine zeigten in beiden Sorten deutliche Expressionsunterschiede in Abhngigkeit davon, ob sie direkt nach der Ernte oder im Anschluss an eine Lagerphase nachreiften. Eine zweite Gruppe wurde nur bei Frchten von 'Red Gold' gefunden und umfasste 12 Proteine, deren Expression durch die Lagerung entweder verringert oder gesteigert wurde: die Expression dieser Proteine variierte bei 'Arctic Snow' nicht. Eine dritte Gruppe mit unterschiedlicher Proteinexpression wurde nur in Frchten von 'Arctic Snow' beobachtet, die in Atmosphre mit Ethylenzugabe gelagert worden waren. Zahlreiche Proteine wurden durch Ethylen abreguliert und diese Abregulation wurde durch die Zugabe von CO2 zur Lageratmosphre wieder aufgehoben. Folglich knnen Unterschiede in der Proteinexpression zwischen Nektarinensorten, die auf die Zugabe von CO2 zur Lageratmosphre reagieren oder nicht, gefunden werden und bei Sorten, deren vorhandene Reaktion auf CO2 bekannt ist, kann dieses Gas als Antagonist bei Ethylen-verursachten Proteinvernderungen wirken.
24126246|The effects of gibberellic acid (GA3), kinetin, the commercial preparations Promalin, Perlan (mixtures of GA4/7 and benzyladenine) and Novagib (GA4/7), and some of their combinations on fruit shape and quality of 'Red Chief Delicious' apples before and after cold storage were studied. Sprays with the chemicals were done once at petal fall. Determinations of fruit shape, expressed as the height/diameter ratio (H/D), fresh weight, seed number were made at harvest, and flesh firmness and the content in soluble solids, total sugars and L-malic acid were done at harvest and after four months in cold storage. Promalin, Perlan, Novagib+kinetin, kinetin+GA3 and kinetin improved fruit shape, by increasing the H/D ratio, and fruit weight in some cases. Total sugars and L-malic acid content of fruits were higher in all treatments compared with the control, at harvest. After four months in cold storage the content of total sugars increased in all treatments, the increase in the control being three times that of all other treatments. Soluble solids followed a similar pattern of change before and after storage. L-malic acid concentration decreased ten times in all treatments after storage, compared with the initial values at harvest, but remained higher than in the control. GA3 did not affect fruit shape but significantly improved all other quality parameters and the overall storability of apples. Flesh firmness before and after storage and the number of seeds were not affected. It was also shown that kinetin could replace successfully benzyladenine, which may present a potential health hazard.
24126523|The effects of fast neutron irradiation using an Americium-Beryllium source with a flux of 1.5  104 n cm-2 s-1 on the agronomic traits of three varieties of Nigerian pepper  Capsicum annuum var. acuminatum (MN/SH/001), C. annuum var. abbreviatum (MN/AR/002), and C. annuum var. grossum (MN/AT/003)  were studied. Seeds of each variety were irradiated for 0, 30, 60, 90 and 120 min before they were sown  with their respective controls  in order to assess the effects of the different irradiation treatments on the plants. All irradiation periods caused leaf abnormalities such as leaves with reduced size, leaves with invaginated or inverted margins, or with a blunt or bifurcated apex, when compared with control plants. Germination percentage tended to become reduce while there was a pronounced positive trend in plant height, number of leaves/plant, fruits/plant, seeds/fruit, weight, length and width of fruits, by increasing the irradiation period. However, 120 min was the most effective irradiation period to induce viable and useful mutations for yield parameters in pepper.
24126867|Fruit quality and flavour are important targets in all pear breeding programmes. Perceived sweetness is directly influenced by the amount and type of sugar accumulated in fruit. Limited information is available on sugar composition in pear fruit and published studies have been completed using cultivars rather than breeding populations. The objective of this research was to determine the quantitative genetic parameters of sugar content in fruit of interspecific hybrids from families making up a pear breeding population. Glucose, fructose, sucrose and sorbitol contents were measured in mature fruit. Most of the sugars, except for sorbitol, showed genetic variability and a relatively high (i.e., > 0.5) ratio between the estimated additive genetic variance and the total variance. Sorbitol showed a high negative genetic correlation (-0.65) with fructose. It could be suggested that the main product of sorbitol conversion was fructose. Sucrose showed a negative genetic correlation with glucose (-0.37) and fructose (-0.16), which would be expected given that sucrose is metabolised into fructose and glucose. Two parents with 100 % European parentage showed the highest empirical breeding values (eBV)s for fructose and total sugars. The parent with 100 % Asian parentage showed the lowest eBV for sorbitol. The mean percentages of the sugars across the entire population were: glucose 13 %, fructose 59 %, sucrose 8 % and sorbitol 20 %, indicating fructose was the main sugar with sucrose less prominent.
24126489|We investigated the effects of different wavelengths of photosynthetically active radiation generated by blue, green, yellow or red light-emitting diodes (LEDs) (peak wavelength: 470, 525, 590 or 625 nm, respectively) on quality preservation of tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) seedlings during low light irradiation storage. The photosynthetic photon flux (PPF) at the plant canopy level was automatically controlled using a proportional-integral-derivative controller in order to maintain the CO2 exchange rate of seedlings at zero. Nine seedlings were stored for 28 d in a storage case at 100.5 C and greater than 95 % RH. There was no significant difference in seedling dry weight before or after storage under any light irradiation (LI). The mean PPFs required for maintaining the CO2 exchange rate of seedlings at zero under the blue, green, yellow and red LIs for the last 2 weeks of storage were 3.5, 5.6, 5.2 and 4.1 mol m-2 s-1, respectively. Green light may help seedlings preserve their quality better than blue or red light; providing a vigorous and compact appearance with upright morphology and higher visual quality score.
24126145|Six cDNAs encoding expansins were isolated from cultured shoots (MdExp1), the flesh of ripening fruit (MdExp2, MdExp3, MdExp4), and fruit pedicel tissue (MdExp5, MdExp6) of apple (Malus  domestica Borkh.). We report here the expression characteristics of these MdExp genes during fruit ontogeny. MdExp1 was expressed in an up-down-up cycle from full-bloom stage to just before ripening. The expression of MdExp2 and MdExp5 was initiated when cell enlargement was started after the cell proliferation stage; the expression of MdExp5 was limited to the early rapid growth period. The up-down-up cycles were also detected in the transcripts of MdExp3 and MdExp4 throughout both growth stages, but the expression of MdExp3 was increased in the ripening stage. Transcripts of MdExp6 were not detected in any growth stage, but were induced by wounding. These results suggest that apple fruit requires at least five expansin genes during ontogeny, and that MdExp3 is a ripening-related expansin gene. Sechs cDNAs zur Kodierung von Expansinen wurden aus kultivierten Sprossen (MdExp1), dem Fruchtfleisch reifender Frchte (MdExp2, MdExp3, MdExp4) und aus Fruchtstielgewebe (MdExp5, MdExp6) des Apfels (Malus  domestica Borkh.) isoliert. Wir berichten hier ber das Expressionsverhalten dieser MdExp-Gene whrend der Fruchtontogenese. MdExp1 wurde vom Stadium der Vollblte bis kurz vor der Reife in einem Anstieg-Abfall-Anstieg-Zyklus exprimiert. Die Expression von MdExp2 und MdExp5 begann mit dem Zellwachstum im Anschluss an das Zellteilungsstadium; die Expression von MdExp5 war begrenzt auf die erste Schnellwuchsphase. Ein Anstieg-Abfall-Anstieg-Zyklus wurde auch whrend beider Wachstumsphasen bei der Transkription von MdExp3 und MdExp4 beobachtet, doch erhhte sich die Expression von MdExp3 whrend des Reifestadiums. Transkripte von MdExp6 wurden in keiner Wachstumsphase entdeckt, sie wurden jedoch bei Verwundung induziert. Diese Ergebnisse weisen darauf hin, dass bei der Apfelfrucht mindestens fnf Expansingene whrend der Ontogenese erforderlich sind und, dass MdExp3 ein in Beziehung zur Reife stehendes Expansingen ist.
24126786|The use of fresh cut vegetables has continued to increase in salad bars and fast food restaurants. Their storage life is influenced by their continued respiration and the biochemical activity associated with senescence. Enzymatic browning is one of the main causes of quality losses during postharvest storage. The combined use of modified atmosphere packaging and low temperature reduces respiration and delays senescence, thereby extending storage life. The objective of this work was to assess the suitability of a range of polymeric films for modified atmosphere packaging on butterhead, crisphead, latin and leafy lettuce types minimally processed during storage at 4C for 9 days. Multilayered polyolefin RD-106, PD-900 and PD-961EZ films with different gas permeability (oxygen permeability from 3000 to 11500 cm3 m2 24 h, 1 atm at 22.7 C, carbon dioxide permeability from 9800 to 30000 cm3 m2 24 h, 1 atm at 22.7 C) were tested. Phenylalanine ammonia lyase (PAL), polyphenol oxidase (PPO) and peroxidase (POD) activities, and the content of phenolic compounds were measured to relate them to overall visual quality, leaf edge browning and leaf surface browning. The variability in enzymatic activity was affected by both the type of lettuce and the permeability of the packaging material for O2 and CO2. A low chlorogenic acid concentration and the best organoleptic quality was achieved with the packaging material PD 900. The leafy lettuce type had the highest concentration of chlorogenic acid without quality losses by enzymatic browning. Leafy lettuce packed with multilayered polyolefins mantained an acceptable quality for consumption after 9 days of storage, independent on the polymeric film used as packaging material. Die Verwendung von frischgeschnittenem Gemse in Salattheken und Fast Food Restaurants nimmt weiterhin zu. Seine Lagerfhigkeit ist abhngig von der Atmung und den biochemischen Aktivitten in Zusammenhang mit der Seneszenz. Enzymatisch bedingtes Verbrunen ist einer der Hauptgrnde fr Qualittsverlust whrend der Lagerung. Die Kombination von Verpackung in modifizierter Atmosphre und niedrigen Temperaturen reduziert die Atmung und den Alterungsprozess und verlngert so die Lagerfhigkeit. Gegenstand dieser Untersuchung war es zu beurteilen, inwiefern sich eine Reihe von Polymerfolien fr die Verpackung von geringfgig bearbeiteten Kopf-, Blatt- und Pflcksalaten in modifizierter Atmosphre mit anschlieender Lagerung bei 4 C ber 9 Tage, eignen. Die vielschichtige Polyolefinfolien, RD-106, PD-900 und PD-961EZ mit unterschiedlicher Durchlssigkeit (Sauerstoffdurchlssigkeit zwischen 3000 und 11500 cm3 m2 24 h, 1 atm bei 22.7 C, CO2-Durchlssigkeit zwischen 9800 und 30000 cm3 m2 24 h, 1 atm bei 22.7 C) wurden untersucht. Phenylalaninammoniumlyase- (PAL), Polyphenoloxidase- (PPO) und  peroxidase- (POD) Aktivitten und der Gehalt an phenolischen Bestandteilen wurden gemessen und in Beziehung zu den gesamten visuellen Qualittsmerkmalen, sowie Blattrand- und Blattoberflchenverbrunung gestellt. Die Variabilitt der Enzymaktivitt wurde durch den Salattyp und die Durchlssigkeit des Verpackungsmaterials fr O2 und CO2 bedingt Eine geringe Chlorogensurekonzentration und die beste organoleptische Qualitt wurde mit dem Verpackungsmaterial PD 900 erzielt. Die Pflcksalate wiesen die hchsten Chlorogensurekonzentrationen, ohne dass Qualittsverluste durch enzymatisches Verbrunen auftraten. Pflcksalate, die in vielschichtige Polyolefine verpackt wurden, behielten ihre akzeptable Verzehrqualitt auch nach neuntgiger Lagerung.
24126331|Effect of four non-chemical sanitation treatments was evaluated on spring and autumn leaf infection by Venturia inaequalis and on leaf litter degradation in two high-density organic apple orchards (Eperjeske and Debrecen-Jzsa, Hungary) on two moderately scab-susceptible apple cultivars ('Jonathan' and 'Elstar') from 2001 to 2003. The sanitation treatments were: removal of fallen leaves, disc cultivation, shredding, and covering the orchard floor with plastic foils. At both locations and in both years, all treatments significantly (P<0.01) reduced leaf litter density. By mid-April, leaf litter density compared to non-sanitized plots was reduced by 82.888.6 %, 49.757.8 %, 42.249.6 %, and 99.5100 %, in treatments of removal of fallen leaves, disc cultivation, shredding, and covering the orchard floor with plastic foils, respectively. These treatments, in the same order, reduced spur-leaf scab incidence in spring by 42.246.5 %, 7.1 25.7 %, 25.335.7 %, and 55.968.6 %, respectively, compared to non-sanitized plots. Compared to non-sanitized plots, leaf scab incidence in autumn was significantly lower (P<0.05) only in the treatment of covering orchard floor with plastic foils in 2002 and 2003, in which percent reduction of scab was between 16.6 % and 24.9 % and between 19.6 % and 27.3 %, respectively. Applicability of the sanitation treatments in organic apple production is discussed.
24126319|Studies on morpho-physiological characters, contents of total phenols and endogenous hormones in the seedlings of seven polyembryonic mango cultivars, 'Muvandan', 'Vellaikolamban', 'Chandrakiran', 'Kurukan', 'Bappakai', 'Mylepelian' and 'Olour' and monoembryonic cultivar, 'Alphonso' raised under pot culture conditions monitored at 30, 60 and 120 days of growth from transplanting revealed that the seedling vigour of polyembryonic cvs 'Muvandan' and 'Bappakai' and of the monoembryonic cv. 'Alphonso' was high. The cv. 'Vellaikolamban' was least vigorous. The leaf area at 60 days of seedling growth was low in less vigorous cvs 'Kurukan' and 'Vellaikolamban' and high in 'Muvandan'. The leaf water potential was less negative in less vigorous cvs 'Vellaikolamban', 'Kurukan' and 'Chandrakiran'. The total phenol and ABA in the leaves were high in less vigour cvs 'Vellaikolamban' and 'Kurukan' at all seedling growth stages. The leaves of vigorous cvs 'Bappakai' and 'Muvandan' had high cytokinins, t- zeatin riboside and dihydrozeatin zeatin riboside levels at 30, 60 and 120 days and IAA level at 30 and 60 days. Plant height and stem girth were negatively correlated with leaf total phenol and ABA contents. Plant height was positively correlated with leaf water potential and cytokinins (t-zeatin riboside and dihydrozeatin zeatin riboside) content. Thus a higher level of growth inhibitor, ABA and phenols concurrently with lower levels of growth promoters imparted growth restriction of seedlings. It is suggested that the selection of size controlling rootstocks at nursery stage can be made by assessing the leaf water potential, total phenols and/or ABA. Untersuchungen zu morphologisch-physiologischen Eigenschaften, dem Gesamtgehalt an Phenolen und endogenen Hormonen in den Smlingen von sieben mehrkeimigen Mangosorten, 'Muvandan', 'Vellaikolamban', 'Chandrakiran', 'Kurukan', 'Bappakai', 'Mylepelian' und 'Olour', sowie der einkeimigen Sorte 'Alphonso', die in Tpfen kultiviert und 30, 60 und 120 Tage nach der Umsetzung bonitiert wurden, zeigten, dass die Wchsigkeit der mehrkeimigen Sorten 'Muvandan' und 'Bappakai' sowie der einkeimigen Sorte 'Alphonso' gro war. Die Sorte 'Vellaikolamban' war am schwachwchsigsten. 60 Tage nach dem Verpflanzen waren die Blattflchen der schwcherwchsigen Sorten 'Kurukan' und 'Vellaikolamban' am kleinsten und die von 'Muvandan' am grten. Das Wasserpotential der Bltter war bei den schwcherwchsigen 'Vellaikolamban', 'Kurukan' and 'Chandrakiran' weniger stark negativ. Der Gehalt an Gesamtphenolen und ABA in den Blttern war im gesamten Versuchszeitraum bei den schwcherwchsigen Sorten 'Vellaikolamban' und 'Kurukan' am hchsten. Die Bltter der wchsigen Sorten 'Bappakai' und 'Muvandan' hatten nach 30, 60 und 120 Tagen hohe Cytokinin-, t-Zeatinribosid- und Dihydrozeatin Zeatinribosid-Werte und nach 30 und 60 Tagen hohe IAA-Werte. Pflanzenhhe und Stammumfang waren negativ korreliert mit dem Gesamtphenol- und ABA-Gehalt der Bltter. Pflanzenhhe und Wasserpotential der Bltter sowie Cyokinin- (t-Zeatinribosid- und Dihydrozeatin Zeatinribosid-) Gehalt sind positiv korreliert. Folglich fhrt ein hherer Gehalt an Wuchshemmstoffen, ABA und Phenolen in Verbindung mit einem geringeren Gehalt an Wachstumspromotoren zu Wachstumsbeschrnkungen der Smlinge. Es wird vorgeschlagen, die Selektion auf Schwachwchsigkeit im Baumschulstadium durch Bestimmung des Wasserpotentials der Bltter, der Gesamtphenole und/oder ABA durchzufhren.
24126844|Tomato bruising is a major type of postharvest damage that substantially reduces fruit quality and marketability. Bruises show local tissue softening in parallel with textural changes. Among perishable commodities, tomatoes are considerably sensitive to mechanical damage. Impact power and fruit-related properties that affect tomato bruise susceptibility were investigated in this study. A bruise prediction model was constructed for the damage susceptibility of tomato (measured by absorbed energy) using multiple linear regression analyses. Tomatoes were subjected to dynamic loading by means of a pendulum at three levels of impact. Significant effects of acoustic stiffness, temperature, the radius of curvature and some interactions on bruising were obtained at 5 % probability level. It was concluded that increases in temperature during impacts as well as high acoustic stiffness and low radius of curvature of fruit will reduce the absorbed energy and, thus alleviate bruise damage of tomatoes.
24126805|The paper reports the profile of individual organic acids and phenolic content in fresh fruit and jam from three populations of cornelian cherry (Cornus mas L.) wild genotypes originating from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Immediately after harvest, jams were cooked at maximum 80 C from the corresponding fruit. The jam was sampled in five replications at three different storage times for each region: immediately after processing, and then after four and six months of storage, for individual organic acids and phenolics by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The phenolic compounds found in the fresh fruit were also found in the jams  however, in significantly lower amounts in jam. The three most abundant phenolic compounds found in cornelian cherry fruit as well as in the corresponding jams were procyanidin B1, quercetin 3-O-robinobioside and peonidin 3-O-glucoside. Jam contained dramatically lower levels of phenolic compounds compared to fresh fruit. The most stable phenolic compounds were flavonols where the smallest losses were recorded. The levels of flavan 3-ols, hydroxycinnamic acid, flavonols and anthocyanins declined more during jam processing than during storage, with a significant influence of the growing region.
24126812|The preparation of natural bracken (Pteridium aquilinum L. Kuhn) from the field to a compost suitable for acid loving plants is described. Key chemical and physical characteristics of the compost were determined by laboratory assessments of particle size, pH, air filled porosity (AFP), water retention characteristics, nitrogen draw down index (NDI) and basic chemistry. The procedure to ensure the breakdown of Ptaquiloside carcinogens is discussed. The material is naturally N poor, K rich with pH < 5.0, at cutting. During composting, particle size declines but pH naturally rises. Options to retain low pH and improve the water holding capacity are discussed. Nitrogen lock-up is similar to peat, but conductivity is lower, making nutrient management of pot plants easy. Water management is the key to successful use in the nursery. This plant is a highly sustainable resource, regaining biomass if cut in alternate years, growing along the western oceanic areas of Europe, particularly on light acid soils, from Norway to Spain and from Ireland eastward beyond Germany.
24126137|The effectiveness of postharvest hot water (at 53 C for 3 and 6 min; at 48 C for 12 min) and curing treatments (at 53 C for 1 and 6 h; at 48 C for 6 h) on chilling injury, decay and postharvest quality of 'Clementine' mandarins (Citrus reticulata (L.) Osbeck) during a two-month storage at 1 C and subsequently one week of simulated shelf-life at 20 C, was investigated. The fruits were not de-greened, waxed, or treated with any postharvest fungicides before and after storage. Chilling injury and decay were prevented by all hot water and curing treatments. Curing treatment at 53 C for 6 h dramatically reduced decay compared to other treatment and chilling injury were not developed, but this treatment ranked last after 60 days of storage for overall quality. Weight loss, juice yield, total soluble solids, and total soluble solids/acid ratio were higher in cured fruit than in hot water dipped fruit. However, titratable acid, ascorbic acid, and overall quality were lower in cured fruit than control and hot water dipped fruit. There were no differences between heat-treated and control fruit in terms of peel colour. Detrimental effects on quality parameters of mandarins did not occur either in hot water or curing treatments. Overall, it was concluded that pre-storage hot water and curing effectively induce tolerance to chilling injury and they constitute an alternative to chemical treatment for 'Clementine' mandarins without impairing any other quality attributes. Die Wirksamkeit einer Heiwasser- (53 C, 3 und 6 min lang; 48 C, 12 min lang) bzw. einer trockenen Wrmebehandlung (53 C, 1 und 6 h lang; 48 C, 6 h lang) nach der Ernte hinsichtlich Klteschden, Fulnis und Verbrauchsqualitt wurde an Clementinen (Citrus reticulata (L.) Osbeck) untersucht, die anschlieend zwei Monate bei 1 C und zur Simulation der Verkaufssituation eine Woche bei 20 C gelagert wurden. Die Frchte wurden vor und nach der Lagerung weder entgrnt, gewachst noch mit Lagerfungiziden behandelt. Alle Heiwasser- und trockene Wrmebehandlungen verhinderten Klteschden und Fulnis. Im Vergleich zu den brigen Behandlungen verminderte die Wrmebehandlung bei 53 C ber 6 h die Fulnis deutlich und Klteschden blieben aus, doch lag diese Behandlungsmethode nach 60 Tagen Lagerung in der Gesamtqualitt an letzter Stelle. Gewichtsverlust, Saftausbeute, Trockensubstanz und das Trockensubstanz/Sureverhlnis waren bei trockenbehandelten Frchten hher als bei den heiwasserbehandelten. Dagegen waren titrierbare Sure, Ascorbinsure und Gesamtqualitt bei trockenbehandelten Frchten geringer als bei Kontroll- und heiwasserbehandelten Frchten. Hinsichtlich Schalenfarben traten keinerlei Unterschiede zwischen den wrmebehandelten und der unbehandelten Kontrolle auf. Weder bei den Heiwasser- noch bei den Wrme-behandelten Mandarinen wurden nachteilige Effekte auf die Qualittsparameter beobachtet. Zusammenfassend kann gesagt werden, dass eine vor der Lagerung durchgefhrte Heiwasser- oder trockene Wrmebehandlung bei Clementinen eine Khletoleranz induziert und eine Alternative zur chemischen Behandlung darstellt, ohne dass dadurch andere Qualittsmerkmale beeintrchtigt wrden.
24126826|This study examines an irrigation scheduling technique for tomato (Solanum lycopersicum L. 'Starbuck F1') cultivation aimed at avoiding effluent from coir substrate hydroponic system. The technique utilized a frequency domain reflectometry (FDR) sensor that controlled irrigation to preset volumetric water levels. For comparison, a time-clock scheduling was examined. When the volumetric water content in the substrate was controlled at 40 or 50 % by the FDR, there was no leaching of drain water over the entire investigation period. When the volumetric water content was controlled at 60 % by the FDR or timer-set, drainage ratio to the total irrigation was 22 or 38 %, respectively, from 32 to 69 days after transplant (DAT), while from 70 DAT onwards, the 60 % treatment ceased its drainage. The EC level in the substrate in the 40 and 50 % treatments was lower during irrigation-off hours than those during irrigation-on hours, which was opposite to that in the 60 % treatment during 25 to 69 DAT. While there was no significant difference in plant growth among the treatments at 30 DAT, the plant height, fresh weights of leaf and stem, and numbers of leaves at 102 DAT showed significant (P < 0.05) reduction under the 40 and 50 % treatments, compared to that under the 60 % and timer-set treatments. A 24 and 26 % of the total fruit number under the 40 and 50 % treatment, respectively, was affected by blossom-end rot (BER), whereas no BER was observed in the 60 % or timer-set treatment. These results indicate that controlling the volumetric water content of the substrate within a range of 40 and 50 % for the entire growth period was too low during the late spring to summer season. Efficient irrigation scheduling to obtain a drainage-free system during late spring to summer season can be achieved by starting to control the volumetric water content of substrate between 40 and 50 % by the FDR, and then by increasing it between 60 and 70 % with close observations of patterns of the water content and the EC level of the substrate.
24126908|2,4-D is a selective post-emergence broadleaf herbicide that is widely used in numerous agricultural crops, forestry, aquatics, as well as turfgrass systems including athletic fields. While 2,4-D has been routinely applied in numerous commodities worldwide since the 1950's, its use has been questioned for decades due to toxicological concerns. Previous research suggests 2,4-D is not readily dislodged (< 10 % of the applied) from treated turfgrass after application; however, sample collections have typically been conducted in the afternoon when turfgrass foliage is dry. Due to 2,4-D's high water solubility coupled with reports stating < 50 % of applied 2,4-D is sorbed by plants, research was conducted to quantify dislodgeable 2,4-D on a simulated football field over time. Five sample collection times within a day (TWD) (5:00, 7:00, 9:00,11:00, or 13:00) were evaluated in each of five days after treatment (DAT) (1, 2, 3, 6, or 12). The author's hypothesis was accepted, as dislodgeable 2,4-D decreased as TWD and DAT increased. While dislodgeable 2,4-D decreases over DAT are likely due to a culmination of dissipation processes, data suggest the effect of turfgrass canopy moisture largely impacts dislodgeable 2,4-D over TWD. 2,4-D residues consistently decreased each day from 1 to 3 DAT at both 5:00 and 7:00, while samples collected at 9:00 and 11:00 were higher at 1 DAT than 2 or 3 DAT. Further, no differences were detected across DAT for samples collected at 13:00. When comparing TWD across DAT, data suggest 2,4-D re-suspends on treated turfgrass blades overnight, as 2,4-D dislodged at 13:00 on 1 DAT was 95 % less than samples collected the following morning at 5:00 and 7:00. Further, 2,4-D dislodged at 13:00 on 2 DAT was 96 % less than 5:00 at 3 DAT. Correlations between 2,4-D dislodged with relative humidity and the difference between the ambient air temperature and dew point suggest this is due to atmospheric conditions being more favorable for dew formation at earlier TWD sampling times.
24126714|The major aim of this study was to determine the effect of the modulation of sorbitol dehydrogenase activity on sugar partitioning in apple leaves at different developmental stages. Transgenic plants with regulated sorbitol dehydrogenase (SDH) activity were obtained using transgenic sense and antisense technology. Plants were analyzed using native Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis assay and western blotting. Sugar levels (glucose, fructose, sorbitol and sucrose) were determined in leaves at different developmental stages. The two antisense lines (A090802-1 and A011803/A) showed reduced SDH activity in immature leaves while the sense lines (S071502 and S091202) showed similar SDH activity to untransformed controls. Western blot analysis partially correlated with activity assays implying the possibility of post-transcriptional regulation. Differences in SDH activity were associated with an altered fructose:sorbitol ratio in immature leaves of transgenic plants. Increased levels of glucose in immature and middle stage leaves were observed in antisense line A011803/A. Differences in fructose sorbitol and sorbitobsucrose ratios among transformants were not significant in mature, fully expanded leaves. These results suggest that the differential regulation of SDH activity in immature leaves could have dramatic consequences on the sugar partitioning between sink and source vegetative tissues and consequently on the vegetative growth of apple plants.
24126511|The ornamental qualities of Camellia japonica have long been of interest to horticulturists. The European garden plant market has traditionally been characterized by erect, branched and flowered plants. More recently, a new market linked to increasing urbanization has developed for compact, highly branched and flowered plants to decorate balconies and patios. Two flushes are formed per year in temperate climates, and three years are required to obtain a garden plant. In the humid, tropical climate of Reunion Island, at an altitude of 700 m, three to four flushes are formed in a single growing season. Under these conditions and with no pruning, it is possible to produce an upright plant with a height of 48.5 cm and 7.5 branchings, adapted to the traditional garden market. With two prunings and the same growing period, a compact plant with a height of 25.4 and 17.0 branchings can be produced, adapted to the new balcony-patio market. In both cases, floral induction occurs in November when the nighttime temperature is above 15 C. This research shows that it is possible to generate diversified and innovative forms of Camellia japonica with considerable marketing potential using adapted pruning and under appropriate climatic conditions.
24126491|As part of a research project 13 cultivars were planted in 2005 at 11 sites in 5 different Austrian regions. The aim was to find new cultivars tolerant to the soil-borne pathogen Verticillium dahliae and to leaf/fruit diseases, with high yield and good fruit quality, to serve as alternative to 'Elsanta', a highly susceptible cultivar regarding soil-borne diseases. Infestation with V. dahliae was evaluated in 2005 and 2006 at 7 sites and in 2007 at 3 sites. Moreover marketable yield, percentage of different categories of unmarketable fruits, plant vigour, and incidence of the blossom weevil Anthonomus rubi, of chlorosis and of leaf spot diseases were assessed on 2 of the sites in 2006 and 2007. 'Elsanta' showed the highest infestation with V. dahliae whereas 'Salsa' and 'Daroyal' were most tolerant. 'Daroyal', 'Queen Elisa', 'Eva' and 'Dora' showed very high plant vigour. 'Dora', 'Eva', 'Queen Elisa' and 'Daroyal' recorded significantly higher losses by the blossom weevil than 'Alice'. Highest marketable yield per plant had the late ripening cultivars, particularly 'Salsa' and 'Sonata'. Of all early ripening cultivars tested, 'Darselect' showed the highest yield, followed by 'Elsanta', 'Daroyal' and 'Alba'. Summing up all the results, 'Alba', 'Alice', 'Daroyal', 'Darselect' and 'Salsa' can be recommended for organic production. 'Elsanta' and 'Sonata' had high yield under organic farming conditions, but are highly susceptible to V. dahliae. 'Salsa', 'Daroyal', 'Alice', 'Record' and 'Queen Elisa' are suitable for growing in Verticillium-infested soils. As new alternatives to 'Elsanta', the early ripening cultivars 'Alba', 'Clery', 'Daroyal' and 'Queen Elisa' can be used, though 'Clery' and 'Queen Elisa' had rather low yield under organic farming conditions and 'Alba' and 'Clery' are only partially tolerant to V. dahliae. 'Divine' and 'Dora' had low yield and are susceptible to Verticillium-wilt and 'Record' is prone to grey mould. These cultivars cannot be recommended for organic production.
24134255|The protective effects of the growth regulator prohexadione-calcium and a mixture of the antioxidant a-tocopherol with the cryoprotector glycerol against freezing injury were examined in leaves of apple (Malus domestica Borkh.) seedlings and in flowering branches of various apple varieties. Apple seedlings were treated with prohexadione-Ca two and nine days before freezing incidences. The results were compared with the data obtained, from plants pretreated with -tocopherol/glycerine and exposure to artificial and natural frost. Chlorophyll fluorescence was measured for the determination of intensity of cold damage in apple seedlings cv. 'Golden Delicious'. Frost injury was significantly reduced due to the application of prohexadione-Ca. The photochemical efficiency of the electron transport system was slightly elevated in leaves of pre-treated apple seedlings. Artificial cold treatments of flowers resulted in reduced damage in plants treated with prohexadione-Ca compared to the control. The protective effect was also observed in flowers of orchard trees, especially after natural freezing events, which turned out to be more destructive than artificial freezing. In addition, the formulations containing -tocopherol/glycerol gave significant protection against freezing injury, in leaves of apple seedlings as well as in flowers of orchard trees. Ein mglicher Effekt des Wachstumsregulators Prohexadion-Calcium wurde im Vergleich zu einer -Tocopherol/Glycerin-Formulierung hinsichtlich der Wirksamkeit gegenber Frost-induzierten Pflanzenschden bei Apfelsmlingsblttern sowie bei Blten verschiedener Apfelsorten geprft. Die Apfelsmlinge wurden mit Prohexadion-Calcium zwei bzw. neun Tage vor dem Auftreten des Frostes behandelt. Die Tocopherol/Glycerin- Applikationen erfolgten 24 h bzw. 48 h vor dem Eintreten des Frostereignisses. Das Pflanzenmaterial wurde sowohl einem knstlichen, aber auch einem natrlichen Frost ausgesetzt. Chlorophyllfluoreszenzmessungen an Apfelsmlingen haben gezeigt, das s die Frostschden durch Applikation von Prohexadion-Ca reduziert werden konnten. Die relative Chlorophyllfluoreszenz war in den mit Prohexadion-Ca behandelten Pflanzen geringfgig erhht im Vergleich zu den unbehandelten Pflanzen nach Frostexposition. Eine Prohexadion-Ca-Vorbehandlung resultierte auch bei Apfelblten in einem verminderten Auftreten von Frostschden nach Einwirkung von knstlichem, aber auch von natrlichem Frost im Freiland, wobei dem natrlichen Frost im Vergleich zum knstlichen Frostereignis ein hheres Schadpotential zugeschrieben wurde. Auch die Vorbehandlung mit -Tocopherol/Glycerin-Lsungen hatte bei Apfelsmlingen wie auch bei Apfelblten eine mindernde Wirkung gegenber knstlichem und natrlichen Frost zur Folge.
24126364|In twelve EU countries, the lower VAT-tariff is applied to flowers and plants in order to promote the production and employment in floriculture. This paper assesses whether the VAT-regulation for flowers and plants achieves the goals set  promoting consumer demand and production and employment in the ornamental supply chain  (effectiveness) and at what cost (efficiency). The empirical results show that the VAT-regulation for floriculture is effective, but not very efficient.
24126205|The parameters of external fruit quality (colour, firmness, weight, diameter and height of fruits, length and thickness of fruit stalk) and internal fruit quality (content of individual sugars and organic acids) of the 5 apple 'Gala' clones ('Red Gala 95', 'Royal Gala', 'Mondial Gala', 'Schniga Gala', 'Galaxy') and the parental cultivar 'Gala' were evaluated in two cropping years. The proportion of the fruit surface colouring of the clones during both years was 80 %, while the parental cultivar exhibited from 60 to 80 % coloration. In the first years of cropping the fruits of the 'Schniga Gala' already regressed to yellow in higher proportion which is probably due to the instability of stronger red coloration. The clones differed in their stem lengths, but the differences in dimensions and firmness of the clones were not significant. The contents of fructose and sorbitol in the 'Gala' clones differed significandy during both years, while the contents of glucose and sucrose showed differences only in the first year. The contents of total soluble solids, malic and citric acids among the 'Gala' cultivar and its clones were also different in both years, but there were no differences in the contents of shikimic and fumaric acids. The comparisons between the clones and the parental cultivar in their external and internal qualities proved that favourable pedoclimatic conditions and application of suitable technologies enable the clones and the parental cultivar to develop fruits of good quality, with attractive appearance and sweet flavour. Among the studied clones, an excellent internal and external quality of fruits was reached at 'Royal Gala' and 'Galaxy'. Verschiedene Parameter der usseren (Fruchtfarbe, -festigkeit, -gewicht und -hhe sowie Stiellnge und -dicke) und inneren Fruchtqualitt (Gehalt an verschiedenen Zuckern und organischen Suren) von pfeln der Ausgangssorte 'Gala' sowie fnf davon abstammender Klone ('Red Gala 95', 'Royal Gala', 'Mondial Gala', 'Schniga Gala', 'Galaxy') wurden ber zwei Erntejahre erfasst. Der Anteil der Deckfarbe lag in beiden Jahren bei allen Klonfrchten ber 80 %, bei der Ausgangssorte zwischen 60 und 80 %. Die Fruchtfarbe des Klons 'Schniga Gala' tendierte schon im ersten Jahren zu Gelbtnen, was ein Zeichen fr die Instabilitt der roten Deckfarbe sein knnte. Signifikante Unterschied zwischen den Klonen konnten bei der Stiellnge nachgewiesen werden, die Unterschiede bei den Fruchtgreparametern und der Fruchtfestigkeit waren nicht signifikant. Die Fructose- und Sorbitolgehalte der 'Gala'-Klone wiesen in beiden Jahren signifikante Unterschiede auf, whrend diese Unterschiede im Glucose- und Saccharosegehalte nur im ersten Jahr signifikant waren. Auch die Gehalte an lslichen Kohlenhydraten sowie an pfel- und Zitronensure zeigten in beiden Jahren Unterschiede zwischen der Standardsorte und ihren Klonen, diese Unterschiede waren bei der Shikimi- und Fumarsure nicht nachweisbar. Die durchgefhrten Vergleichsanalysen zwischen mehreren ueren und inneren Fruchteigenschaften zeigten, dass unter gnstigen Boden- und Klimaverhltnissen sowohl die Ausgangssorte als auch ihre Klone, Frchte mit attraktivem Aussehen und harmonischem Geschmack produzieren kann. Von den untersuchten Klonen wiesen 'Royal Gala' und 'Galaxy' besonders gute uere und innere Fruchteigenschaften auf.
24126147|Cyclic drought as a single stress factor or combined with low phosphorus (P) and/or low nitrogen (N) availability was tested on plant quality and post-production performance in Campanula carpatica 'Uniform'. Drought stressed plants were irrigated when the soil water potential s reached below 800 hPa and control plants were irrigated when s reached below 200 hPa. The growth substrate was a peat:perlite mixture. Plant height, leaf number, total leaf area, number of flower buds and total fresh and dry weight were reduced by continuous cyclic drought stress and by interrupted cyclic drought stress in combination with either low P alone or a combination of low P and low N. Low N combined with interrupted cyclic drought stress did not reduce plant height compared with cyclic drought as a single stress factor. Apparently, drought stress combined with low N availability favoured vegetative growth at the expense of reproductive growth, whereas dry matter in low P plants was distributed in favour of flower production. All plants produced with drought stress were more tolerant to a post-production drought stress treatment compared with control plants. Low P availability combined with interrupted drought stress during production improved the post-harvest stress tolerance to a larger extent than growing plants with drought stress and standard P levels. An Campanula carpatica 'Uniform' wurden die Auswirkungen zyklischer Trockenheit als alleinigem Stressfaktor oder in Kombination mit geringer Phosphor- (P) und/oder Stickstoff-(N) Verfgbarkeit auf die Pflanzenqualitt whrend der Kultur und beim Endverbraucher untersucht. Die trockengestressten Pflanzen wurden bewssert, wenn das Bodenwasserpotentials s unter -800 hPa und die Kontrollpflanzen, wenn s unter -200 hPa sank. Als Substrat diente eine Torf:Perlit Mischung. Anhaltender und unterbrochener zyklischer Trockenstress in Kombination mit geringem P oder einer Kombination von geringem P und N reduzierte die Pflanzenhhe, die Blattzahl, die Gesamtblattflche, die Anzahl Bltenknospen sowie das Frisch- und Trockengewicht. Die Kombination von geringem N und unterbrochenem zyklischen Trockenstress fhrte im Vergleich mit zyklischer Trockenheit als alleinigem Stressfaktor nicht zu geringerer Pflanzenhhe. Anscheinend begnstigte Trockenstress in Kombination mit geringer N-Versorgung das vegetative Wachstum auf Kosten des generativen, wohingegen die Trockenmasse in Pflanzen mit wenig P zu Gunsten der Bltenbildung verteilt wurde. Alle whrend der Kultur trockengestressten Pflanzen waren beim Endverbraucher toleranter gegen Trockenheit als die Kontrollpflanzen. Geringe P-Verfgbarkeit kombiniert mit unterbrochenem Trockenstress verbesserte die Stresstoleranz der Pflanzen beim Endverbraucher in strkerem Mae als eine Kultur mit Trockenstress und normaler P-Versorgung.
24126380|Strawberry plants (Fragaria  ananassa Duch.) are planted in Canadian nurseries in spring to be dug in autumn as bare-root transplants for winter annual plasticulture fruit production in the south-eastern U.S.A.. A series of whole plant harvests were performed on 'Sweet Charlie' and 'Camarosa' strawberry plants in a nursery and a plasticulture fruit field to study their pattern of dry matter partitioning. Plants were either treated with prohexadione-calcium or mowed, or treated with prohexadione-calcium and mowed in the nursery and compared to untreated plants. All treatments caused a reduction in plant height at the time bare-roots transplants were dug in the nursery. Treated plants allocated more dry matter to root and less to leaves, resulting in an increase in root to shoot ratio and this effect lasted until plants were well established after transplantation into the plasticulture system. By fruiting, treated plants allocated more biomass to fruits, and this difference was due to increased fruit number and not increased fruit size. Untreated plants allocated more to leaves, both in number and percentage, and to stems. Prohexadione-calcium increased root allocation, and mowing (alone or combined with prohexadione-calcium) decreased it. Plants that were prohexadione-calcium-treated and mowed had the highest harvest index and untreated plants had the lowest. 'Camarosa' developed many more leaves and proportionally less fruits than 'Sweet Charlie' during the fruiting phase.
24126457|The influence of fruit load per tree and reflective mulch on the content of phenol compounds was studied in two experiments conducted on nectarines (cultivar 'Stark Red Gold') from two orchards differing in tree density (1.660 and 830 trees ha-1). Low crop load significantly increased fruit size and weight in both trials. Other parameters such as soluble solids, flesh firmness, acidity and skin color were affected only in nectarines from the low density orchard. At harvest, fruits from the low density orchard were more mature on low crop load trees compared to intermediate and high crop load trees. Crop load clearly affected the concentration of phenolic compounds: low-load fruits had a higher accumulation of phenolic compounds in skin and pulp tissues. Concentrations of cinnamic acids and flavan-3-ols consistently showed an inverse relationship to crop load. Inter-row reflective mulching modified average maximum temperature and the intensity of reflected light in the canopy. The mulching also changed fruit quality at harvest by promoting the ripening and generally increasing the concentration of the main classes of phenolic compounds. Our data indicate that health promoting value of nectarine fruits can be enhanced by increasing phenolic content via crop load and reflective mulches.
24126645|The most common stated reason to consumer dissatisfaction with tomatoes is lack of flavour. It has been shown that a common storage practice among consumer households is to store tomatoes in the refrigerator, which have a negative impact on tomato taste. Thus, consumer postharvest treatment in home may be a reason to diminishing taste. In a Swedish consumer survey we find that 53 % are dissatisfied with tomato taste and that 74 % store their tomatoes after purchase in a temperature below recommendations. Research done on the effect of tomato storage has led to the suggestion that growers should educate consumers on handling practices in order to remove the negative effect chilling has on taste experience. However, past research has been conducted on samples that potentially do not represent the target consumer, as trained sensory panels do not perceive taste as untrained consumers do. Based on previous empirical studies using expert panels, we hypothesise that panels consisting of ordinary consumers will prefer tomatoes stored in room temperature to those chilled under ordinary refrigerated conditions (i.e. 7 C) regardless of variety. Thus, we replicate and challenge past findings and normative recommendations through the use of two experiments involving consumer panels evaluating two varieties of tomatoes, 'Arvento' and 'Tisto', stored two days in refrigerator (7 C) and room temperature (21 C) respectively. We found a significant difference in consumer liking for 'Arvento' that were unchilled (M=6.443, SD=1.765) and chilled (M=5.849, SD=1.894), t(351)=4.270, p<0.001 (two tailed), albeit with a small effect size (eta squared statistic (.049)). No significant difference in liking was found for the 'Tisto' variety. We find, contrary to previous research, that storage temperature has no or only a marginal effect on perceived taste among respondents in untrained consumer panels for the two varieties in our trial. Theoretical and practical implications are discussed.
24126346|The fermentative metabolism was studied in cv. 'Jonagold' apples stored at 0 C in the following controlled atmosphere (CA) conditions: 6 kPa CO2 + 0.5 kPa O2; 3 kPa CO2 + 1 kPa O2; 1 kPa CO2 + 2 kPa O2, and also in regular air (RA) as a control. Apples in RA storage showed very low pyruvate decarboxylase (PDC) and alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) activity, and low concentrations of acetaldehyde and ethanol. The production of lactate, and the activity of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) in apple fruit were inhibited during storage, but a slight increase was observed during subsequent 8 days shelf-life at 20 C. During CA-storage, cv. 'Jonagold' apples both the activity of PDC and ADH increased with a corresponding accumulation of acetaldehyde and ethanol, mainly in fruits stored at high CO2 and/or low O2 partial pressures. Both enzymes, and their products, decreased to low levels during the 8 days shelf-life at 20 C after CA-storage. Lactate content and activity of LDH in CA-stored fruit showed a similar behaviour to the RA-stored fruit, however, the reduction of the enzyme activity was greater under CA-conditions. Overall, it is concluded that cv. 'Jonagold' apple fruit synthesize minute amounts of lactate and LDH and play a minor / negligible role in the fermentative metabolism of cv. 'Jonagold' and possibly other apple fruit.
24126470|A new laboratory calibration procedure is presented to calibrate soil water sensors in coir. Water content was measured gravimetrically with load cells during a drying cycle determined by the evaporative demand of the environment as well as the water retention characteristics of the growth medium (coir). Sample mass and capacitance sensor output (mV) was measured and logged hourly. Excellent precision fits, indicated by R2 values greater than 0.99, for sensor response versus volumetric water content (v) were achieved by 4th degree polynomial curves. Accuracy of sensor-specific calibration was within 0.002 to 0.005 m3 m-3 root mean squared error (RMSE) for the EC-10 sensors and 0.002 to 0.003 m3 m-3 RMSE for the EC-20 sensors. This indicated that the instruments are very reliable and capable to measure water content of coir over the entire range from saturation to the lower limit of plant available water. Accuracy of a universal coir calibration was 0.05 and 0.025 m3 m-3 RMSE for the EC-10 and EC-20 sensors, respectively. Although the universal equations were less reliable than the individual equations, they still outperformed the equations provided by the manufacturer. The manufacturer's default calibration for soil underestimated v of coir by a large margin of 0.25 to 0.29 m3 m-3 RMSE for the EC-10 sensors and 0.27 to 0.33 m3 m-3 RMSE for the EC-20 sensors. It was therefore strongly recommended that the manufacturer's equations should be replaced by the universal equations when using coir. Regular re-calibration was found to be important for organic growth mediums, since they may deteriorate over time. In conclusion, it stressed the need for a reliable and accurate determination of calibration equations.
24126876|This paper reports on the effects of gibberellic acid (GA3) on floral formation and the potential for GA3 to reduce flower primordia formation in sweet cherry (Prunus avium L.). GA3 was applied to 4-year-old '0900 Ziraat'/'Gisela 5' trees at two growth stages (early flowering and beginning of fruit development) at the doses of 0, 25, 50, 100, and 250 mg L-1, for a 2-year period. Bud samples were taken from the beginning of July to the end of September in both years in six sequential dates. During the dormant seasons, buds were collected to determine number of flowers per bud. Samples were fixed and stored in a solution of formalin, 70% ethanol and glacial acetic acid (10:50:5, v/v). Flower formation in the buds was examined using a stereo zoom microscope and the morphological changes in each sample were recorded using a camera mounted on the microscope. Number of flowers per bud was negatively and linearly related to GA3 concentration. Floral formation in '0900 Ziraat' sweet cherry (untreated control) started in early-July and continued until mid-September. The progress during which the sepal, petal, stamen and pistil primordia were differentiated was considerably slower at GA3 applications. Imperfection of the floral buds was observed as the floral organs being replaced by leaf-like appendages or as none of the flower buds having one normally-developed flower primordia or as floral organs or flower primordia being much smaller than the other.
24126499|The most important problem limiting marketable quality in kiwifruit is the flat or fan shaped fruits. Although selective hand thinning and sorting can be used to remove these fruit, the cost increase may be considerable. This study describes the morphological changes on a microscopic level during flower formation at the reproductive primordia of 'Hayward'. Flower primordia with abnormal deviations were classified into four groups depending upon relative shape (flat or fan-shaped) and the number (double or triple) of the pistil. Normal and flat shaped fruits are similar to each other. Both fruits have a pericarp, mesocarp, seed bed, and core tissue. However, flat fruit has more loculi and wider core tissue. Fasciated fruits form when terminal flower fuses with one or more lateral flower. Double and triple fruit form when two flowers (one terminal and one lateral flower) or three flowers (one terminal and two lateral flowers), respectively, fuse together during ovary differentiation.
24126159|Rose (Rosa  hybrida), a popular and widely spread garden plant, is infected by numerous plant diseases, which are mainly caused by fungal and even by bacterial pathogens such as Erwinia amylovora, the causal agent of fire blight. Recently, prohexadione-Ca, a 2-oxoglutarate specific inhibitor originally developed as a growth retardant, was reported to influence the flavonoid composition of apple and pear leaves and, thus, to increase resistance against fire blight and other diseases. It was supposed that this approach could also mediate resistance in roses. As the first step, the induction of the antimicrobial 3-deoxyflavonoid in rose leaves after prohexadione-Ca application was investigated in a time course experiment. Due to the presence of disturbing phenolic compounds impeding the preparation and testing of enzymes, enzyme preparation procedures and assays had to be adapted and optimised for rose leaves. Standard enzyme assays are described for phenylalanine ammonia lyase (PAL), chalcone synthase/chalcone isomerase (CHS/CHI), flavanone 3-hydroxylase (FHT), dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) and flavanone 4-reductase (FNR). Cloning and heterologous expression showed that the DFR of rose exhibits FNR activity as well. Treatment of rose leaves with prohexadione-Ca led to the inhibition of FHT and to the formation of the 3-deoxyflavonoid luteoliflavan. Likewise, induction effects on PAL, CHS and DFR/FNR activity were also observed. In general, it could be shown that rose leaves produce 3-deoxyflavonoids after prohexadione-Ca treatment and, therefore, this method can be considered as a potential protection strategy for roses that will be studied phytopathologically in a next step. Die Rose (Rosa  hybrida), eine beliebte und weit verbreitete Zierpflanze, kann von vielen Pflanzenkrankheiten befallen werden. Die meisten werden von Pilzen verursacht, es gibt aber auch bakterielle Erkrankungen wie z.B. Feuerbrand, der von Erwinia amylovora hervorgerufen wird. Es wurde beschrieben, dass die Behandlung mit Prohexadion-Ca den Flavonoidgehalt in Apfelblttern beeinflusst und die Resistenz gegenber Feuerbrand erhht. Da Flavonoide generell eine wichtige Rolle bei der Pathogen-Abwehr spielen, wurde die Flavonoidbiosynthese in Rosenblttern, insbesondere die auftretenden Vernderungen nach Behandlung mit Prohexadion-Ca, im Zeitverlauf untersucht. Aufgrund des hohen Gehaltes an phenolischen Inhaltsstoffen, welche die Prparation und Untersuchung der Enzyme stren, wurden Enzymaufarbeitung und Enzymtests fr die Rosenbltter optimiert. Standardenzymtests fr die Phenylalaninammoniumlyase (PAL), Chalkonsynthase/Chalkonisomerase (CHS/CHI), Flavanon 3-hydroxylase (FHT), Dihydroflavonol 4-reduktase (DFR) und Flavanon 4-reduktase (FNR) werden beschrieben. Durch Klonierung und heterologe Expression der Rosen-DFR konnte gezeigt werden, dass diese auch FNR-Aktivitt besitzt. Die Behandlung von Rosenblttern mit Prohexadion-Ca fhrte zu einer Inhibition der FHT-Aktivitt und zur Akkumulation des 3-Deoxyflavonoids Luteoliflavan. Gleichzeitig konnte eine Induktion der PAL, CHS und der DFR/FNR-Aktivitt beobachtet werden. Zusammenfassend konnte gezeigt werden, dass die Rose nach Prohexadion-Ca-Behandlung 3-Deoxyflavonoide bilden, und dass diese Methode somit als potentielle Pflanzenschutzstrategie fr die Rose betrachtet werden kann. Im nchsten Schritt sollen phytopathologische Untersuchungen durchgefhrt werden.
24126852|We explored the potential of fluorescence ratios, based on multiple fluorescence excitation indices, as compared to chlorophyll fluorescence (ChlF) recorded with the pulse amplitude modulation (PAM) technique, for early and sensitive detection of water deficiency (WD) in tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) leaves. In this context, we hypothesized that the indices BFRR_UV (ratio of BF (blue fluorescence) to FRF (far-red fluorescence), both excited with UV-light), FLAV (logarithm of the ratio of red-excited FRF to the UV-excited FRF) and NBI (ratio of UV-excited FRF to the red-excited red fluorescence) of the multiple fluorescence excitation technique reveal the onset and intensity of WD in plants exposed to long-term WD, as well as during re-watering. For this purpose, three tomato genotypes were grown in the greenhouse under well-watered or long-term WD conditions. The decrease of the osmotic potential, relative water content and chlorophyll concentration as well as the increase in proline concentration confirmed the impact of WD leading to drought stress. ChlF recorded with the PAM technique showed significant differences between control and WD treatment in the relative apparent electron transport rate and the coefficient of photochemical quenching (qP). The indices BFRR_UV and FLAV significantly increased while the NBI significantly decreased during WD. As compared to the qP, the ratios BFRR_UV and FLAV provide information of equivalent quality concerning the genotype-specific responses to WD. Thus, the multiple fluorescence excitation technique establishes a valuable, fast and practical tool for the in situ monitoring of the physiological status of the plants without the need of dark adaption as required for the PAM recordings.
24126248|Stem-end rot was previously considered as post-harvest disease of citrus fruits, but recently, it has been observed as a cause of pre-harvest fruit rot in citrus orchards of Punjab state of India. Pre-harvest stem-end rot causing agent, Colletotrichum gloeosporioides, was characterized and evaluated on different stages of citrus cultivar, 'Kinnow' beginning from floral buds to mature fruits. Two isolates of Colletotrichum, Cg-1 (slow growing with orange pigmentation in culture media) and Cg-2 (fast growing, without pigmentation in culture media) were isolated from infected fruits, and ascribed to species C. gloeosporioides. All stages of fruit growth, starting from petal-fall stage to 14-week old fruits were found susceptible to stem-end rot infection after artificial inoculations under in vitro and in vivo conditions. Older fruits developed stem-end rot more quickly as compared to younger fruits. The symptoms appeared as necrotic lesions on unopened and opened flowers, and persistent calyces (buttons) formed as a result of flower infection. The symptoms initiated as brown to reddish brown or black spots in all stages near the stem-end region, which became firm and dry and ultimately, the rind became softened and resulted in rotting in the advance stages. Isolate Cg-1 was pathogenic to all stages of citrus fruits and, incidence remained the same irrespective of stage of fruit under both in vitro and in vivo conditions. Isolate Cg-2 was ineffective at both petal-fall and button-sized fruit stage, but caused serious damage in mature fruits.
24126168|In many fruit and vegetable crops, the number of bee visitations to receptive flowers can be the limiting step in obtaining optimal yields. Increasing the attractiveness of flowers to bees could increase visitation and provide a means of improving fruit yields and seed production. Nectar volume and sugar composition of male and female flowers of four cultivars of Cucurbita pepo L. (zucchini) pollinated by bumblebees were examined in a greenhouse environment. The number of visits to flowers, the number of seeds produced by visited flowers, and the sugar composition of nectar was determined during the spring. Patterns of nectar sugar composition, albeit being always sucrose rich, varied along the months of culture. There were no statistically significant differences among cultivars for the nectar sugar concentration. However, differences were observed between cultivars for the ratio of nectar sucrose/hexose. The number of seed set per visited female flower was correlated with the number of bee visits. Increased frequency of bee visits was correlated with higher volumes of nectar and with higher ratios of sucrose/hexose, which appeared to be useful indicators of pollinator preferences. Bei vielen Obst- und Gemsearten kann die Anzahl der Insektenbesuche bei empfngnisbereiten Blten der begrenzende Faktor fr eine optimale Erntemenge sein. Die Steigerung der Attraktivitt der Blten fr Insekten knnte die Besuchszahlen erhhen und eine Methode zur Steigerung der Ernte- und Saatgutmenge darstellen. Unter Gewchshausbedingungen wurde die Nektarmenge und die Zuckerzusammensetzung bei mnnlichen und weiblichen Blten von vier Zucchinisorten (Cucurbita pepo L.), die von Hummeln bestubt wurden, untersucht. Erfasst wurden die Anzahl Besuche pro Blte, die Anzahl Samen pro besuchter Blte und die Zuckerzusammensetzung whrend des Frhjahrs. Die Muster der Zuckerzusammensetzung im Nektar, wenngleich immer reich an Saccharose, variierte whrend der Kulturmonate. Es waren keine statistischen Unterschiede zwischen den Sorten hinsichtlich Zuckerkonzentration des Nektars nachweisbar. Allerdings wurden Sortenunterschiede beim Verhltnis von Saccharose/Hexose im Nektar beobachtet. Es bestand eine Korrelation zwischen dem Samenansatz pro besuchter weiblicher Blte und der Anzahl Hummelbesuche. Eine erhhte Frequenz von Hummelbeschen war mit grerer Nektarmenge und hheren Saccharose/Hexose-Verhltnissen korreliert, was geeignete Indikatoren fr die Vorlieben des Bestubers zu sein scheinen.
24126311|In vitro experiments were conducted to evaluate the efficacy of arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM) colonized root extracts of four plant species namely Trigonella foenum graecum, Ricinus communis, Solanum melongena and Morus alba (var. sujanpuri) on rhizogenesis of Morus alba (var. sujanpuri) under sodium chloride (NaCl) stress. The AM fungi (Glomus and Gigaspora species) were multiplied on above-mentioned four host plant species separately and the mycorrhizal root extracts were prepared by homogenizing well-colonized mycorrhizal roots. The extracts were added to Murashige and Skoog's (MS) media containing 0.1 to 0.4 % (w/v) NaCl. The in vitro grown shoot cultures of M. alba were transferred to different AM root extract MS media for rhizogenesis. The comparisons were made between indole butyric acid (IBA) (1.0 mg l-1) and AM root extracts. The AM root extracts of M. alba were found to be equivalent to IBA and better than other plant extracts in promoting rhizogenesis, root growth and proliferation under both (+) and () NaCl conditions. Es wurden in vitro Experimente durchgefhrt, um die Wirkung von mit arbuskularer Mycorrhiza (AM) besiedelten Wurzelextrakten der vier Pflanzenarten Trigonella foenum graecum, Ricinus communis, Solanum melongena und Morus alba (var. sujanpuri) auf die Rhizogenese von Morus alba (var. sujanpuri) unter Kochsalz- (NaCl-) Stressbedingungen zu ermitteln. Die AM-Pilze (Glomus- und (Gigaspora-Arten) wurden auf den vier obengenannten Wirtspflanzenarten separat vermehrt und der Mykorrhizawurzelextrakt durch Homogenisieren der reich besiedelten Mykorrhizawurzeln hergestellt. Die Extrakte wurden dem Murashige und Skoog (MS) Medium, das 0.10.4 % (w/v) NaCl enthielt, zugefgt. Die in vitro vorkultivierten Sprosskulturen von M. alba wurden zur Wurzelbildung auf die mit unterschiedlichen AM-Wurzelextrakten angereicherten MS-Medien umgesetzt. Es wurde zwischen Indolbuttersure (IBA) (1.0 mg l-1) und den AM-Wurzelextrakten verglichen. Die AM-Wurzelextrakte von M. alba erwiesen sich sowohl unter (+) als auch unter () NaCl-Bedingungen im Vergleich mit IBA als gleichwertig und verglichen mit den anderen Pflanzenextrakten als besser hinsichtlich Frderung der Bewurzlung, Wurzelwachstum und Proliferation.
24126341|A selection protocol to screen for powdery mildew resistance at an early stage in rose progenies was evaluated. Seedlings were grown in the first year in two separate greenhouse compartments: one with inoculation plants (C1) and one without (C2; control compartment). In the second year, the same genotypes were tested in the field under natural infection conditions. In the compartment with inoculation plants a high and uniform infection pressure was established. Selection for disease resistance could start more than one month earlier in the greenhouse compartment with inoculation plants compared to the control compartment. Significant correlations between greenhouse evaluation and field scores were found, especially for the families (F1) of different crosses. In commercial breeding, the proposed method can significantly reduce selection efforts and allows for a more economical and efficient manner to screen on a larger number of seedlings for resistance.
24126160|In pome fruit trees, the growth retardant prohexadione-Ca induces the formation of 3-deoxycatechins, which correlates with an increased resistance against fire blight and also against some fungal diseases. The formation of 3-deoxycatechins is due to the channelling of intermediates unusual for pome fruits, which requires the presence of a flavanone 4-reductase (FNR) activity. Here, it is investigated, whether the crop plants strawberry, grapevine, cranberry, cherry, peach, plum, elder, and kiwi fruit react in the same way to prohexadione-Ca application. The presence of FNR activity is shown by enzymatic investigations and the formation of a 3-deoxycatechin after prohexadione-Ca application in planta. Furthermore, by cloning of the corresponding cDNAs and studies with the heterologously expressed enzymes it is shown that the DFR enzymes of grapevine, cranberry and strawberry posses also FNR activity. Conclusively, all the crop plants studied have the potential to form 3-deoxyflavonoids. However, the changes in the flavonoid composition observed after prohexadione-Ca treatment were not exactly the same in all species studied here. In kiwi fruit leaves, a strong accumulation of flavanones rather than the formation of large amounts of 3-deoxycatechins is observed. Der Wachstumsregulator Prohexadion-Ca kann bei Kernobst die Bildung von 3-Deoxyflavonoiden induzieren, was mit einer erhhten Resistenz gegen Feuerbrand, aber auch gegen Pilzerkrankungen einhergeht. Das Vorhandensein einer Flavanon 4-Reduktase ist hierbei entscheidend fr die Umlenkung von Intermediaten in Richtung der 3-Deoxycatechine. In der vorliegenden Studie wurde untersucht, ob weitere Obstarten wie Erdbeere, Weinrebe, Cranberry, Kirsche, Pfirsich, Pflaume, Holunder und Kiwi gleichermaen auf eine Prohexadion-Ca Anwendung reagieren. FNR-Aktivitt wurde enzymatisch und durch die Bildung eines 3-Deoxycatechins nach Behandlung mit Prohexadion-Ca nachgewiesen. Darber hinaus wurde durch cDNA-Klonierung und heterologe Expression gezeigt, dass die DFR-Enzyme von Wein, Cranberry und Erdbeere auch FNR-Aktivitt besitzen. Generell wurde nachgewiesen, dass alle untersuchten Pflanzen das Potential haben, 3-Deoxyflavonoide zu bilden. Die Vernderungen im Flavonoidstoffwechsel nach Prohexadion-Ca Behandlung waren allerdings in den untersuchten Pflanzen unterschiedlich und fhrten beispielsweise in Kiwi zu einer starken Akkumulation von Flavanonen.
24126102|Two rose hip types thorny '25-mrk-14' (Rosa canina L.) and thornless '25-mrk-15' (Rosa dumalis Bechst.) selected from previous studies were used in this investigation. Samples of one year old twigs were collected and exposed to the artificial freezing test at -30 C for 0, 8, 16 and 24 hours from November through March. Throughout the experiments, several biochemical analyses on the buds of the rose hip genotypes, including total sugar, reducing sugar, sucrose and starch were performed monthly. Results indicated that there was a significant difference between the species of rose hips for resistance to cold, according to hours of treatment and month of samples taken. The '25-mrk-15' was less resistant than the '25-mrk-14' in terms of cold hardiness. Freezing tolerance in both rose hip genotypes is higher in January and February than November and December. The sugar ingredients of rose hip types increased from November to February, but decreased in March. Die in dieser Untersuchung verwendeten hagebuttenbildenden Rosenarten, die mit Dornen behaftete '25-mrk-14' (Rosa canina L.; Hunds-Rose) und die dornlose '25-mrk-15' (Rosa dumalis Bechst.; Graugrne Rose), stammten aus Selektionen frherer Versuche. Von November bis Mrz wurden von einjhrigen Zweigen Proben genommen und 0, 8, 16 oder 24 Stunden unter kontrollierten Bedingungen einer Kltebehandlung bei -30C unterzogen. Whrend der gesamten Versuchsdauer wurden an den Rosenknospen monatlich biochemische Analysen, wie Bestimmungen des Gehalts an Gesamtzucker, reduzierendem Zucker, Saccharose und Strke durchgefhrt. Die Ergebnisse zeigten einen signifikanten Unterschied im Merkmal Klteresistenz zwischen den Hagebuttenarten, der Dauer der Kltebehandlung und dem Monat der Probennahme. '25-mrk-15' war weniger klteresistent als '25-mrk-14'. Bei beiden Arten ist die Klteresistenz im Januar und Februar grer als im November und Dezember. Die Zuckerinhaltstoffe nehmen in den beiden Rosenarten von November bis Februar zu und fallen im Mrz ab.
24126439|Phenological data of sweet cherry (Prunus avium L.) cultivars 'Burlat' and 'Germersdorfer" were analysed to ascertained the effect of air temperature on the onset of phenophases (first bloom, full bloom, end of flowering, maturity and calculated period of fruit development) during two 5-years-periods: before (P1) and during climate change (P2) in Slovenia. Although non-significantly higher mean temperatures from January to March during P1 influenced earlier date of flowering. The onset of 'Burlat' flowering phenophases were statistically similar during P1 and P2, being later first bloom and full bloom in P2, but the onset of 'Germersdorfer' flowering phenophases were significantly later during P2. Significantly higher mean temperatures of April and May during P2 shortened period of fruit development for 7 d in 'Burlat' and 11 d in 'Germersdorfer'. The speed of sweet cherry phenological progress was influenced by temperature of the preceding months. Shortened period of fruit development will most probably reduce sweet cherry fruit quality and yield, but advanced flowering after warmer winter months will increase risk of spring frosts.
24126658|Heads of red, white and Savoy cabbage grown at the Norwegian University of Life Sciences in the season 2001 and 2002 were stored at 1 C for 20 weeks in controlled atmosphere (CA) consisting of 3 % CO2, 3 % O2 and 94 % N2, and in conventional cold storage. Samples were assayed for total antioxidant activity (FRAP), ascorbic acid and dry matter. The main result, as expressed by principal component analyses (PCA), was the difference between red cabbage, which was higher in vitamin C and FRAP, and white and Savoy cabbage which had the highest dry matter content. There was a large degree of overlap between the different samples for storage methods, storage time and year. In both years, the main effect of storage time on FRAP was non-significant. In 2001, significant differences in vitamin C and weight loss were found between the two storage methods, whereas dry matter and FRAP were non-significant. In 2002, significant differences were found between dry matter, FRAP and vitamin C, while weight loss was non-significant.
24126340|In this study, immature zygotic embryo expiants of 41 B American rootstock (V vinifera L. cvs. 'Chasselas' x V. berlandieri) were cultured on B5 medium (Gamborg et al. 1968) supplemented with 0.5, 1.0, 2.0 and 4.0 mg l-1 2,4-D (2,4 dichlorophenoxy acetic acid) in light and dark conditions. The highest somatic embryo formation was obtained from dark condition in the media containing 0.5, 1.0 and 2.0 mgl-1 2,4-D with the rates of 27.5, 22.0 and 20.0 %, respectively. The highest number of torpedo shaped somatic embryos was also obtained from dark condition with B5 medium supplemented with 1.0 mg l-1 2,4-D (565 embryos per explant). These torpedo shaped somatic embryos were used to produce artificial seeds. The somatic embryos were encapsulated in calcium alginate gel using various concentrations of sodium alginate (3 and 4 %) and calcium chloride (75,100 and 125 mM) in order to determine the effect of rigidity of bead on conversion frequency of somatic embryos. The mixture of 3 % sodium alginate and 125 mM calcium chloride was found to be the optimal combination for encapsulation. The encapsulated somatic embryos were transferred to the hormone free MS medium (Murashige and Skoog 1962) for germination and the germination rates were between 54 and 74 %.
24126851|Fruit diameter increase was monitored in four apple cultivars during three consecutive years (20062008) from t-stage until harvest. Individual fruit diameter increase was described using a negative exponential equation. Fruit growth curves of early ('Gala Brookfield'), mid-season ('Golden Delicious Reinders') and late ripening apple cultivars ('Braeburn Hillwell', 'Fuji Kiku 8') were denoted with an appropriate nonlinear model and each model parameter was evaluated separately. Apple fruit analyzed in the present study exhibited a similar growth curve for all analyzed cultivars i.e. a linear increase in fruit diameter in the beginning of fruit growth, followed by a slow curvilinear enlargement towards the asymptote in the final stages of fruit growth a few weeks before technological maturity. Asymptote was significantly dependent on cultivar, exhibiting higher correlation between predicted final fruit diameter and measured fruit diameter at harvest for late ripening cultivars. Similar growth rates have been calculated for 'Gala Brookfield', 'Golden Delicious Reinders' and 'Fuji Kiku 8' and a slower growth rate was characteristic for 'Braeburn Hillwell' cultivar.
24126105|A study was conducted to assess the relationship between skin speckle, soluble solids content, stomata, lenticels and transpiration rate of nectarine fruit {Prunus persica (L.) Batsch) of two cultivars 'Snowqueen' and 'Fairlane'. Fruit soluble solids content and transpiration rate per fruit and surface area were measured on tissue samples taken from fruit parts with and without skin speckles. Soluble solids content and transpiration rate varied for a fruit and were higher in fruit parts with skin speckles than in fruit parts without skin speckles. Results reflected a positive association between skin speckle, soluble solids content and transpiration rate. This positive association provides a challenge for breeders, which is to produce fruits without skin speckles while not adversely affecting sugar levels. Die Untersuchung wurde durchgefhrt, um den Zusammenhang zwischen Hautsprenkeln, Gehalt an lslichen Kohlenhydraten, Stomata, Lentizellen und Transpirationsrate bei Nektarinenfrchten (Prunus persica (L.) Batsch) der Sorten 'Snowqueen' und 'Fairlane' abzuschtzen. Der Gehalt an lslichen Kohlenhydraten, die Transpirationsrate pro Frucht und die Fruchtoberflche wurden an Gewebeproben von Fruchtpartien mit und ohne Hautsprenkel gemessen. Der Gehalt an lslichen Kohlenhydraten und die Transpirationsrate variieren innerhalb einer Frucht und sind in Fruchtteilen mit Sprenkeln hher als in solchen ohne Sprenkel. Die Ergebnisse weisen auf einen positiven Zusammenhang zwischen Hautsprenkeln, Gehalt an lslichen Kohlenhydraten und Transpirationsrate hin. Dieser positive Zusammenhang stellt eine zchterische Herausforderung dar, die darin besteht, Frchte ohne Hautsprenkel zu zchten ohne dabei den Zuckergehalt negativ zu beeinflussen.
24126221|The genus Anemone (Ranunculaceae) includes about 85 species. The Mediterranean basin is the centre of differentiation for many of the species that have contributed to presently cultivated varieties: A. coronaria, A. hortensis, A. pavonina and A. x fulgens. A. coronaria is, either in nature or under culture conditions, a winter-flowering species and the progenitor of the varieties currently grown for cut-flower production and garden ornament. Current cultivars cluster series of sub-cultivars which are characterised by quite uniform colour. Nevertheless other traits as flower production, precocity and flower quality show an evident genetic variation. A. coronaria may be considered a multifunctional species. It is expected that new cultivars will carry a set of distinctive traits that make them suitable for definite uses: cut flower production, garden or pot plants. In recent years, new tools that may support breeding activities were established: in vitro propagation of adult plants and seedlings, androgenetic plant production, characterization of populations and cultivars by molecular markers and detection of Single Nucleotide Polymorphism in cDNA. In consideration of the potentials of such tools, two major strategies are proposed for breeding new cultivars: A) crosses between selected heterozygous parents and B) crosses between inbreed homozygous or androgenetic parents in order to obtain true F1 hybrids.
24126720|Plants of the annual-fruiting raspberry (Rubus idaeus L.) cultivars 'Autumn Treasure', 'Erika' and 'Polka' were raised in a phytotron under different temperature and day-length conditions for six weeks, and subsequently cropped in an open plastic tunnel at latitude 61 N. Flowering and fruit maturation were advanced and yield increased with increasing raising temperature over the 15-25 C range in 'Erika' and 'Polka', while 20 C was optimal for 'Autumn Treasure'. Long day (LD) conditions (20 h) likewise advanced flowering and increased fruit yield compared with 10 h photoperiod at all temperatures in 'Erika' and 'Polka', while photoperiod had no significant effect on flowering and fruit yield in 'Autumn Treasure'. In agreement with earlier findings, low temperature vernalization at 6 C for six weeks increased flowering and fruit yield in 'Polka' compared with control plants raised at 18 C. Vernalization also advanced the transition to flowering by reducing the number of nodes formed before flowering in 'Autumn Treasure' without increasing fruit yield, while flowering and fruiting were not promoted by vernalization in 'Erika'. 'Erika' out-yielded the other cultivars under all conditions and produced remarkable yields of 3.3 kg plant-1 when raised in LD at 25 C. With its great yield potential and large fruits with excellent flavour, 'Erika' presents itself as a very promising cultivar, especially for environments with long growing season. The number of fruiting nodes was the single most important plant structural component associated with high fruit yield, accounting for 76 % of the total variation in the total data material.
24126733|An experiment was conduced to study the response of pepper plants under saline conditions (30 mM NaCl) on growth, cation uptake, and water and ion relations. The physiological role of K+ under the saline conditions was studied. Pepper plants were cultivated with five different nutrient solutions that included four K+ treatments (0.2,2.0,7.0 and 14.0 mM K+) with 30 mM NaCl and an additional treatment with 7 mM K+ without salt. Plants were grown in hydroponics in a controlled-environment greenhouse and the experiment was carried out until the start of the fruiting phase. Salinity reduced reproductive organs dry weight and shoot dry weight but not root dry weight. Salinity did not affect water relations at dawn but affected ion relations in leaf sap and decreased relative water content at midday. The concentration in leaf sap of Cl- and the organic solutes fructose, glucose and myo-inositol increased in salt-stressed plants. In addition, salinity produced nutrient unbalance in both leaf and root by increasing the Cl-/NO3- ratio. On the other hand, increasing K+ concentration in the nutrient solution increased salt tolerance as indicated by the increases in shoot and root dry weights. This effect was mainly due to the fact that plants under high K+ concentrations are able to keep adequate water and ion relations with a high K/Na ratio while plants under low K+ decreased the osmotic potential and showed dehydration leaf signs. Leaf sap oxalic acid concentration increased in parallel to leaf sap K+ concentration and leaf sap fructose and glucose decreased with the increase of the K+ level in the nutrient solution.
24126144|In a model breeding program Rdr1, a gene conferring resistance to black spot (Diplocarpon rosae Wolf) was introduced from a wild rose species into the genetic background of cultivated tetraploid roses. The chromosomal set of the original diploid donor genotype, a Rosa multiflora hybrid, was doubled via colchicine treatment and crossed to a tetraploid hybrid tea variety. The resulting hybrid genotype, 91/100-5, was crossed to a Floribunda garden rose and the resulting progeny was tested for black spot resistance. AFLP markers were then used to screen a subset of the resistant progeny for the fraction of donor genome, which segregates from 32 to 84 % in this population. The genotype with the smallest number of donor-specific markers was further backcrossed to the Floribunda parent and the hybrid tea grandparent, and the analyses conducted in the previous generation were repeated. The BC2 population segregated for the fraction of the original donor genome, ranging from 12.3 % to 32 %. A parallel screen for morphological markers in the BCi demonstrated the superiority of the molecular markers for the reduction of the genetic background of wild rose species in introgression programs allowing a more efficient utilization of wild rose germplasm. In einem Modellzuchtversuch wurde das Resistenzgen Rdr1, welches Resistenz gegen den Sternrutau an Rosen vermittelt, in den genetischen Hintergrund von Kulturrosen eingekreuzt. Der Chromosomensatz einer resistenten diploiden Donorlinie wurde durch eine Colchizinbehandlung verdoppelt und der daraus resultierende tetraploide Genotyp mit einer tetraploiden Teehybride gekreuzt. Die daraus hervorgehende resistente Hybride 91/100-5 wurde in der nchsten Generation mit einer Floribunda Gartenrose gekreuzt und die Nachkommenschaft auf Sternrutauresistenz geprft. Der resistente Anteil dieser Nachkommenschaft wurde dann mit AFLP-Markern untersucht um Individuen mit einem mglichst kleinen Anteil des Donorgenoms zu identifizieren. Dieser Genomanteil spaltet in der Nachkommenschaft von 32 % bis 84 % auf. Der Genotyp mit dem geringsten Anteil des Donorgenoms wurde zum Floribunda-Elter und zum Teehybriden-Groelter rckgekreuzt und die Analysen auf Sternrutauresistenz wiederholt. Unter den resistenten Nachkommen spaltet der Anteil des Donorgenoms von 12,3 % bis 32 % auf. Paralleluntersuchungen morphologischer Marker in der BC1 zeigen, dass molekulare Marker morphologischen Bonituren zur Bestimmung des Anteils des Donorgenoms berlegen sind.
24126787|Tipburn is a physiological leaf disorder that reduces the quality of a cut flower production of Eustoma in the greenhouse. The disorder may be affected by environmental factors, and in several experiments we have studied if relative air humidity (RH), daily lighting period, photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD), and calcium (Ca) fertilization affect the incidence of tipburn and Ca content of the leaves. Constant high RH or a few hours of high RH at night caused a higher incidence of tipburn than a low RH. High PPFD or a long lighting period caused tipburn only at high RH. Incidence and severity of tipburn differed in the cultivars tested. The onset of tipburn symptom appeared in the young developing leaves from one to two weeks before until after visible flower bud development. Plants that took longer time to flower and gained high shoot biomass also had a higher incidence of tipburn than those flowering early and with a low shoot biomass. There was always less Ca in leaf tips with tipburn than in those without, and the threshold level for visible symptoms seemed to be 3.5 mg g-1 leaf dry weight. High Ca concentrations in the nutrient solution increased the Ca content in the whole leaf, but had little or no effect on incidence of tipburn. In conclusion, tipburn in Eustoma was an effect of constant high RH, high RH at night, or high dry matter accumulation per plant. These factors influenced the translocation of Ca to the leaf tips. Spitzenbrune ist eine physiologische Blattkrankheit, die die Qualitt der im Gewchshaus produzierten Schnittblumen von Eustoma vermindert. Die Strung scheint durch Umweltfaktoren verursacht zu sein. In zahlreichen Experimenten wurde hier untersucht, ob die relative Luftfeuchte (RH), die tgliche Belichtungsdauer, die Photonenflussdichte (PPFD) und die Calciumdngung (Ca) das Auftreten von Spitzendrre und den Ca-Gehalt der Bltter beeinflusst. Konstant hohe RH oder hohe RH whrend einiger Nachtstunden fhrte hufiger zu Spitzendrre. Eine hohe PPFD oder eine lange Belichtungsdauer fhrte nur bei hoher RH zu Spitzendrre. Auftreten und Schwere des Befalls variierten bei den untersuchten Sorten. Die ersten Symptome der Spitzendrre traten in der Phase 12 Wochen vor bis nach Sichtbarwerden der Knospen auf. Bei Pflanzen, die spter zur Blte kamen und mehr Sprossbiomasse entwickelten, trat hufiger Spitzendrre auf als bei frhblhenden mit geringerer Sprossmasse. Pflanzen mit Spitzendrre wiesen immer weniger Ca in den Blattspitzen auf als Pflanzen ohne Symptome. Der Schwellenwert fr sichtbare Symptome scheint bei 3.5 mg g-1 Blatttrockengewicht zu liegen. Hohe Ca-Konzentrationen in der Nhrlsung erhhte den Ca-Gehalt im ganzen Blatt, hatte aber wenig oder keinen Einfluss auf das Auftreten der Spitzendrre. Zusammenfassend kann gesagt werden,, dass Spitzendrre an Eustoma eine Folge von konstant hoher RH, hoher RH whrend der Nacht oder hohem Trockenmassenaufbau pro Pflanze war. Diese Faktoren beeinflussten den Transport des Ca in die Blattspitzen.
24126363|We developed 12 new sequence characterized markers from Begonia  tuberhybrida Voss. Total of 37 alleles ranged from two to six with expected heterozygosity HE=0.52, observed heterozygosity HO=0.58, and probability of identity PI=0.31, in average per a locus. Probability of identity combined over all 12 loci was PI=0.03. Four out of 12 loci expressed significant departures from HWE. Cross-species transferability was evaluated on the panel of 15 botanical species of Begonia. Total of 25.3 % cross-species amplification indicated rather low transferability of markers from B.  tuberhybrida to other Begonia species, which confirms the requirement of species-specific approach to development of Begonia markers.
24126294|The effect of increasing concentrations of NaCl in nutrient solution on the antioxidant capacity and other fruit quality attributes of raspberry (Rubus idaeus L.) was investigated. The plants were grown in perlite under protected cultivation and at pink fruit stage were supplied with Hoagland nutrient solution supplemented with 0, 10, 20, 30 and 60 mM NaCl for a period of 10 days, following another 10 d without the addition of NaCl. During application of NaCl, the antioxidant capacity, vitamin C content, total phenolics, soluble solids concentration, titratable acidity and dry matter content of fruits increased but the increase was not proportional to the salt concentration in the solution. During the post-application period these characteristics were reduced to the level measured in the non-saliniszed plants except for ascorbic acid content and total phenolics, which remained at significantly higher levels. Also antioxidant capacity was only reduced at the end of the post application period. The anthocyanin content was not influenced by the salinity treatments. Results suggest that salinity, especially at low levels, may enhance the production of antioxidant substances in raspberry fruits and therefore their potential health benefits.
24126356|One of the main objectives of using plastic mulch is to increase soil temperature. However, under high temperature conditions some plastic mulches warm the soil to temperatures that might be harmful to plant growth. A 2-year study was carried out in northern Hungary (Gdll) to determine the optimal colour of the plastic mulch for sweet pepper under specific, unsettled climatic circumstances, in some years with high temperature conditions. The increase of soil temperature caused by certain mulches was the same in both years. In case of light, coloured mulches (clear, violet, light green) the soil temperature was 2.52.9 C higher than in case of the un-mulched control. The dark coloured mulches (black, dark green, red) caused 1.42.1 C soil temperature increase compared to the un-mulched control. The rate of soil temperature values optimal for sweet pepper (between 20 and 30 C) was the highest in case of dark coloured mulches. Due to the warmer weather in 2003 the soil warmed up under the clear and violet mulches extremely, which had a harmful effect on vegetative growth and yield. According to the higher soil temperatures mulched treatments produced higher yields than the un-mulched treatment except the clear mulch in 2003. The use of dark coloured mulches is the safest solution in the examined region because even in case of high air temperature and solar radiation the soil does not warm to a harmful degree. Eine der wichtigsten Ziele der Anwendung von Mulchfolien ist die Erhhung der Bodentemperatur. Bei einer hohen Lufttemperatur und Sonneneinstrahlung erwrmen einige Mulchfolien den Boden sogar in dem Mae, dass das Wachstum der Pflanzen schon negativ beeinflusst werden kann. Ein zweijhriger Versuch wurde in Nordungarn durchgefhrt, um die optimale Farbe der Mulchfolie fr Gemsepaprika in einem Gebiet mit spezifischen, wechselhaften Klimaverhltnissen, in einigen Jahren mit besonders hohen Lufttemperaturen und starker Sonneneinstrahlung zu bestimmen. Die verwendeten Mulchfolien erwrmten den Boden in beiden Jahren in gleichem Masse. Bei den hellen (durchsichtigen, lila, hellgrnen) Mulchfolien war die Bodentemperatur 2,52,9 C hher als bei der unbedeckten Kontrollgruppe. Die dunkelfarbigen (schwarzen, dunkelgrnen, roten) Mulchfolien fhrten zu einer Steigerung der Bodentemperatur von 1,42,1 C im Vergleich zu der unbedeckten Kontrollbehandlung. Die Hufigkeit der fr den Gemsepaprika optimalen Bodentemperaturwerte (zwischen 20 und 30 C) war bei den dunkelfarbigen Mulchfolien am grten. In dem wrmeren Jahr 2003 erwrmte sich der Boden unter den durchsichtigen und den lila Mulchfolien zu sehr, was schon eine negative Wirkung auf das Wachstum und den Ertrag der Pflanzen hatte. Wegen der hheren Bodentemperatur wiesen die bedeckten Behandlungen hhere Ertrge auf als die unbedeckten, die durchsichtige Mulchfolie ausgenommen. Aufgrund unserer Ergebnisse ist in dem untersuchten Gebiet die Verwendung von dunkelfarbigen Mulchfolien am sichersten, weil sich unter ihnen der Boden bei einer hohen Lufttemperatur und starker Sonneneinstrahlung nicht in schdlichem Masse erwrmt.
24126627|In this study the influence of prohexadione-Calcium (Pro-Ca) treatment on peel colour development and polyphenol metabolism of apples during advanced maturity was investigated. Apple trees were treated 3 weeks before technological maturity. Changes in the content of hydroxycinnamic acids, dihydrochalcones, flavonols, flavanols and anthocyanins were monitored six times during the advanced maturation until technological maturity of the fruits. To evaluate the effect of Pro-Ca on the coloration of apples, the changes in the chromaticy values a*, h and the lightness coefficient L* were monitored. The parameters showed a significant difference in the intensity of red coloration between the treated and untreated apples. The application of Pro-Ca led to a decrease in the enzyme activities of the 2-oxoglutarate dependent dioxygenases flavanone-3-hydroxylase (FHT) and flavonol synthase (FLS), and the flavonoid pathway was negatively affected in general. Concomitantly, the concentrations of flavonols, anthocyanins and dihydrochalcones in the peel of treated apples decreased, whereas the contents of total phenolic compounds and hydroxycinnamic acids increased. Flavanol contents, however, remained unchanged. In apple pulp, slightly higher concentrations of all phenolic compounds were measured in the treated apples compared to the control on the majority of sampling dates. The results indicate that Pro-Ca modulates the polyphenol spectrum resulting in a pronounced decrease of red coloration during advanced maturation of apples. Pro-Ca therefore to some extent exhibits the potential to avoid undesired red coloration of apple fruit.
24126521|The effect of CO2 concentration on the carbon dioxide exchange rate (CER) was studied in small plant stands of cucumber for 12 hours a day-1 in three experiments (Exp.) conducted in summer. A photon flux density (PFD) of 300 mol m-2 s-1 of supplementary light was provided in addition to daylight, except for during the middle of the day (12.0017.00). The photoperiod was 20 hours per day-1 (02.0022.00). In Exp. 1, an increase in CO2 concentration from 380 to 800 mol mol-1 from 08.00 until 20.00 increased CER by about 30 % during the period, irrespective of the PFD. In Exp. 2, a decrease in CO2 concentration from 380 to 210 mol mol-1 during the same period reduced the CER by 2036 %, with an increasingly negative effect towards the end of the period. Measured at the same CO2 concentration during the first hours of the photoperiod (02.0008.00) and at end of the photoperiod (20.0022.00), the CER was the same in both plant stands in both experiments. In Exp. 3, an increase in the CO2 concentration from 800 to 1200 mol mol-1 during the same 12-hour period increased CER much more early in the period (28 %) than late in the period (7 %). Measured at the same CO2 concentration, the CER of the 1200 mol mol-1 exposed plants was 12 % lower at end of the photoperiod (20.0022.00) compared with the control plants, but the same during the first part of the photoperiod (02.0008.00). CER increased with increasing PFD in all three experiments. In a fourth experiment, CER was measured at three different temperatures throughout the day in three different plant stands. Supplementary light (300 mol m-2 s-1 PFD) was provided for 20 hours per day-1. When 800 mol mol-1 CO2 was combined with moderate PFD levels (about 300 mol m-2 s-1), the CER was the same at 25 and 30 C, decreasing at 35 C. At a high PFD level (about 750 mol m-2 s-1) and intermediate CO2 level (500 mol mol-1), the CER was the same irrespective of temperature. When the CO2 concentration decreased to 300 mol mol-1, the CER decreased with increasing temperature.
24126148|Postharvest quality of Eustoma grandiflorum (Raf.) Shinn. was investigated after growing plants at different photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD), lighting periods, supplements of lime to the peat medium and different levels of boron fertilization. The plants were harvested at three open flowers and were placed in glass bottles with 500 ml vase solution of the desired preservatives under the following conditions: 21 C, 45 % relative humidity (RH) and 12-h photoperiod with a PPFD of 15 mol m-2 s-1 provided by white fluorescent tubes. Wilted flowers, leaves and buds were recorded every day and postharvest life was evaluated. In general, an increase in preharvest PPFD level increased the vase life. In our first experiment, the plants grown with a 20-h lighting period under a low PPFD (60 pmol m-2 s-1) with high RH (90 %) in the canopy showed the shorter vase life than those grown under a high light level (240 mol m-2 s-1) and low RH (70 %). In the second experiment, a few hours of high Rid at the canopy level during night with a 16-h lighting period and a PPFD of 240 mol m-2 s-1 resulted in a shorter vase life than 24-h and constant low RH. When temperature and RH were better controlled in a third experiment under a PPFD of 105 mol m-2 s-1, the vase life was slightly longer in stems from 16-h than from 24-h lighting period. Compared to their long vase life (26 to 28 days), the differences (24 days), however, must be regarded as small, and we therefore suggest that there is no adverse effect of 24-h lighting on vase life. Vase life was only affected when the commercial preservative Chrysal Clear (CC) or sucrose with 8-hydroxyquinoline sulphate (HQS) was used in the vase solution, and not when either sucrose or HQS was compared with the water control (reverse osmosis water). These results suggest that high PPFD, long lighting period, low RH during the growing period and use of sugar combined with HQS in the vase solution, are all important factors for prolonging the vase life of Eustoma. Die Nacherntequalitt von Eustoma grandiflorum (Raf.) Shinn. wurde an Pflanzen untersucht, die zuvor bei unterschiedlichen Photonenflussdichten (PPFD), Belichtungszeiten, Zugaben von Kalk zum Torfsubstrat und unterschiedlichen Bordngestufen kultiviert worden waren. Die Pflanzen wurden geerntet, sobald drei Blten geffnet waren und in 500 ml Glasflaschen mit Wasser, dem das jeweilige Haltbarkeitsmittel zugefgt wurde, bei 21 C, 45 % relativer Feuchte (RH) und 12-h Licht mit einer PPFD von 15 mol m-2 s-1 aus weien Leuchtstoffrhren, aufgestellt. Welke Blten, Bltter und Knospen wurden jeden Tag erfasst und die Haltbarkeit ermittelt. Im Allgemeinen verlngerte eine hhere PPFD die Haltbarkeit. Im ersten Versuch, wiesen die Pflanzen, die im 20-Stunden-Tag mit geringer PPFD (60 mol m-2 s-1) und hoher RH (90 %) im Blattbereich kultiviert wurden, eine geringere Haltbarkeit auf als jene, deren Kultur bei Starklicht (240 mol m-2 s-1) und geringerer RH (70 %) durchgefhrt wurde. Im zweiten Versuch fhrten wenige Nachtstunden mit hoher RH im Blattbereich in Verbindung mit einer 16-h-Belichtungsdauer und einer PPFD von 240 mol m-2 s-1 zu geringerer Haltbarkeit als 24-h Licht und konstant geringer RH. Als Temperatur und RH im dritten Versuch besser kontrolliert wurden, war die Haltbarkeit bei einer PPFD von 105 mol m-2 s-1 nach einem 16-h Tag besser als nach einem 24-h Tag. Bezogen auf die lange Haltbarkeit (26 bis 28 Tage) muss eine Verlngerung um 24 Tage allerdings als gering angesehen werden, so dass wir vorschlagen, nicht von einer negativen Wirkung des 24-Stunden-Tages auf die Haltbarkeit zu sprechen. Das Aufkalken des Torfsubstrats oder die Dngung mit Bor hatte keine signifikante Wirkung auf die Haltbarkeit. Die Haltbarkeit wurde nur beeinflusst, wenn das Handelsprodukt Chrysal Clear (CC) oder Saccharose in Kombination mit 8-Hydroxyquinolinsulfat (HQS) fr das Vasenwasser verwendet wurden. Bei alleiniger Verwendung von Saccharose oder HQS wurden im Vergleich zur Kontrolle (Umkehrosmosewasser) keine Unterschiede sichtbar. Die gefundenen Ergebnisse zeigen, dass sowohl hohe PPFD, lange Belichtungszeiten, geringe RH in der Wachstumsphase als auch die Verwendung von Saccharose in Kombination mit HQS im Vasenwasser wichtige Faktoren zur Verlngerung der Haltbarkeit von Eustoma sind.
24126453|The role of ethylene on ranunculus cut flower senescence was investigated. Ten Ranunculus asiaticus cultivars ('Pluto', 'Juny', 'Shangai', 'Auriga', 'Bianco2', 'Ken', 'Dido', 'Lul', 'Saigon' and 'Green') were treated with 2 mM silver thiosulfate (STS), 4 mM amino-oxyacetic acid (AOA), and 377 nL L-1 1-methylcyclopropene (1-MCP, Ethylbloc) for 14 h and with 8 L L-1 ethylene for both 14 and 72 h. Evaluation of postharvest performance was based on: visual check for symptoms of senescence alteration (VS), stem fresh weight (FW), petal colour, ethylene production, and leaf chlorophyll content. Results showed genotype differences for all parameters. Senescence was usually reached about 13 d after the beginning of the experiment. In untreated flowers, 'Green' was the longest-lived (16.2 d) and 'Lul' the shortest-lived (11.1 d). Statistical analysis showed an interaction between cultivar and treatment. In general, AOA and STS treated flowers lasted more than the control. These molecules are inhibitors of ethylene biosynthesis or ethylene action respectively. However, they can also act as antibacterial agents. More in detail, AOA extended the longevity in four out of ten cultivars ('Lul', 'Pluto', 'Bianco2' and 'Green') and STS in two ('Pluto' and 'Bianco2'). Exogenous ethylene application did not negatively affect any of the investigated cultivars. Overall it can be concluded that the new ranunculus cultivars tested are ethylene insensitive. Therefore special precautions against exposure to ethylene are not needed.
24127090|In the Tyrrhenian coastal area, frequent late frosts have occurred during the last ten years. The most severe event happened in 2003, causing a strong reduction in yield, above all in stone fruit species. However, several apricot selections, from different breeding sources, had a considerable yield, as a consequence of high flower and/or young fruit survival. The aim of this research was to evaluate the degree of tolerance to spring frost of ten selections and their own parents. During three subsequent years, the frost sensitivity of flower buds at dormant and swelling phenological stages was determined using the Phenolic Compound Leakage (PCL) test after an artificial frost treatment (-4 C). When this temperature was applied to flower buds at the dormant stage did not cause significant injuries, as indicated by the low PCL values. At the pre-flowering stages a significant increase in PCL was observed in most genotypes. On the basis of different levels of PCL, the genotypes were classified into three groups in relation to their frost sensitivity: i) very frost-tolerant; ii) frost-tolerant and iii) frost-sensitive. Within the very frost-tolerant group, the selections 7C 20/3, 11/48/7 and 11/19/2, were the best genotypes confirming a good yield performance recorded after the severe spring frost of 2003.
24126630|This study was carried out searching for alternative substrates to traditional peat based on river waste and Sphagnum and Carex peat from Argentinean peatlands and used to grow Impatiens waUerana bedding plant. The aim of this study was i) to characterize physical and chemical effects from seven growing media on I. wallerana plants grown under different fertilization rates and ii) to describe the physiological mechanisms in plants, involved in the use of such substrates. Particle stability was lower for the six alternative substrates compared to the Canadian peat-base control substrate. However, with a high fertilization dose it is possible to reach non significant differences in plant growth compared to the control substrate. It is suggested, for future research, that nitrogen signalling associated to cytokinin synthesis by roots is involved.
24126352|Phenylpropanoids are involved in natural defence reactions of apple (Malus domestica) against various diseases. An induced phenylpropanoid biosynthesis prior to pathogen attack may, therefore, support resistance mechanisms. In two model systems, the induction of phenylpropanoid biosynthesis was investigated under different light and carbohydrate conditions and after abiotic stressor treatment by measuring the activity of the key enzyme phenylalanine ammonia lyase and by estimating the accumulation of chlorogenic acid and flavan 3-ols. It could be demonstrated that Milsana Tee, Mycosan, lime sulphure, Triton-X-100 and 2,6-dichloroisonicotinic acid (INA) may act as elicitors of phenylpropanoid biosynthesis and are, therefore, candidates for resistance induction in apple. Phenylpropanoide sind beteiligt an natrlichen Abwehrreaktionen des Apfels (Malus domestica) gegen verschiedene Pathogene. Eine Induktion der Phenylpropanoidbiosynthese vor Infektionen knnte deshalb die Resistenzreaktionen untersttzen. In Modellsystemen wurden potentielle Induktoren auf Apfelbltter appliziert und ihr Effekt auf die Aktivitt des Schlsselenzyms Phenylalaninammonium-Lyase gemessen sowie auf die Akkumulation der Chlorogensure und Flavan 3-ole. Dabei wurden auch Licht und Kohlenhydratversorgung variiert. Es konnte gezeigt werden, dass Milsana Tee, Mycosan, Netzschwefel, Triton-X-100 und 2,6-Dichloroisonicotinsure (INA) als Elicitoren des Phenylpropanoidstoffwechsles agieren knnen und damit als Resistenzinduktoren in Frage kommen.
24126342|Knowledge about pest-host plant relationships is important for effective pest control in greenhouse crop production. Mathematical models may help to qualify and quantify these relationships and may therefore be used as prediction tools in decision support systems. In the current study, population dynamics of the polyphagous pest Frankliniella occidentals (Western Flower Thrips) were investigated on greenhouse grown chrysanthemum and a dynamic prediction model was established. Previously published data were used to simulate thrips development. Thrips population growth was mainly dependent on temperature, population density and food availability. The damaged leaf area, caused by the pest infestation, was simulated separately. Greenhouse experiments were conducted at three different temperatures to be able to compare different plant and population growth patterns. Thrips samples were taken during the whole cultivation period and Larvae and adult thrips were summarized as pest individuals in the population. The model fitted the data well during the early population growth phase but underestimated population decay, due to the lack of migrations possibilities (cage experiments), at high temperatures.
24126508|The selection of appropriate rootstock plays an important role in designing a new orchard or in renewing an old one. The identification of rootstocks that cope well in replant soil is therefore necessary to maintain similar production capacity and fruit quality of peach orchards. We have evaluated ten peach rootstocks planted in virgin and replant soil by monitoring tree vigour, yield efficiency, effect on fruit maturity and quality parameters, through two growing seasons. Maturation was affected by rootstock, and Julior appeared to delay fruit maturity. All rootstocks produced higher quality fruit in virgin soil, which was reflected in higher contents of sugars compared to replant soil. Barrier 1, GF 677 and peach seedlings adapted best to virgin soil conditions. For replant conditions, Adesoto, Tetra and Penta rootstocks showed the greatest potential.
24126224|The objective of this research was to determine the suitability of river waste as an amendment for low quality peat in container growth media. Physical and chemical properties of the river waste and Argentinean peat were determined, and the ability of the media to support Gypsophila muralis plant growth was evaluated. Once river waste was added to the Argentinean peat, total porosity and dry weight increased. The best combination of different amounts of the components was also determined.
24126869|The use of transplants is the most reliable method to ensure adequate crop establishment of commercial plantings of most ornamental bedding crops; however, in plants grown in small pots, root growth restrictions often occur. The aim of this work was to determine the dry weight accumulation processes involved in the root restriction generated by a decrease in plug cell volume under the hypothesis that cytokinins synthesized by roots are part of the mechanism of Impatiens walleriana aerial biomass accumulation which can be partially overriding by an early BAP spray during the propagation stage in plug trays. Our results showed that I. walleriana aerial biomass productivity is related to root dry weight; the higher total dry weight of the controls grown in 50 plug cell trays is related to higher relative growth rate (RGR) as a result of an increase in net assimilation rate (NAR) and leaf area ratio (LAR). On the other hand, the smaller cell volume the higher photosynthate partitioning to roots. I. walleriana dry weight accumulation and photosynthate partitioning were changed in response to different BAP sprays doses (5 to 200 mg L-1) and application stages, but the magnitude of the changes were associated to the cell volume too.
24126208|A 2-year study was carried out in the Vrana Valley in the Mediterranean part of Croatia to evaluate the effects of application of different mulching materials (black polyethylene film, clear photodegradable polyethylene film and paper biodegradable cellulose mulch) and irrigation systems (drip and micro irrigation) in watermelon (Citrullus lanatus L.) cultivation. Mean daily soil temperatures were converted to heat units (HU) on each treatment and the research confirmed that mulching of soil with polyethylene materials raises the soil temperature. Early in the season, during the first five weeks of watermelon growth soil mulched with clear film was the warmest, its temperature being significandy higher than in other treatments. Mulching with polyethylene materials enabled an earlier harvest compared to the control and paper, which was naturally due to more rapid initial plant growth. The highest watermelon yields were achieved on black film and drip irrigation (104.5 tons per hectare in 1995 and 79 tons per hectare in 1996). Clear film held its mulching function during first five weeks of the growing season in both years. Paper reduced soil temperature that resulted in lower soil temperature, slower plant growth and later harvest in comparison with polyethylene mulch treatments. Regarding the irrigation system applied, the higher yields were achieved with drip irrigation in both trial years. Die zweijhrige Untersuchung wurde im Vrana-Tal im kroatischen Mittelmeerraum zum Zweck der Auswertung von Aus- und Nachwirkungen der Verwendung von verschiedenen Mulchmaterialien (schwarzer Polyethylenfilm, lichtabbaubare Polyethylen-Klarsichtsfolte, biologisch abbaubarer Zellstoffmulch) und Bewsserungssystemen (Trpfchen- und Mikrobewsserung) beim Anbau von Wassermelonen (Citrullus lanatus L.) durchgefhrt. Die Bodentemperaturen wurden zu Tagesmittelwerten verdichtet. Diese wurden in Wrmeeinheiten (HU) umgerechnet, wobei die Basistemperatur 12.8 C betrug. Whrend der ersten fnf Wochen der Kultur erwies sich der mit Klarsichtsfolie gemulchte Boden als der wrmste; seine Temperatur war wesentlich hher als bei den anderen Verfahren. Die Bodenbedeckung mit Polyethylen-Kunststoffen erbrachte im Vergleich zum Kontroll- verfahren und zur Papiermulch eine frhere Ernte, was natrlich die Folge eines schnelleren initialen Pflanzenwachstums war. Die hchsten Wassermelonenertrge wurden bei Verwerdung von schwarzer Polyethylenfolie und bei Trpfchenbewsserung (104.5 t ha-1 im Jahre 1995 sowie 79 t ha-1 im Jahre 1996) erzielt. Die Polyethylen-Klarsichtsfolie behielt whrend beider Versuchsjahre ihre Mulchfunktion. Durch den Einsatz von Zellulosemulch (Papier) wurde die Bodentemperatur im Vergleich zu den Varianten erniedrigt, wodurch das Wachstum verlangsamt und der Erntebeginn verzgert wurde. Im Hinblick auf das angewendete Bewsserungssystem wurden durch Trpfchenbewsserung in beiden Versuchsjahren hhere Ertrge erzielt.
24126888|The 'Abate Fetel' pear is a clear example of a premium fruit cultivar that requires a consistently high quality level. This research focused on the effects of key variables of fruit industry decision-making, including agronomic options (harvest date), commercial value (fruit diameter) and marketing (time of commercial distribution). The analysis was conducted using a combination of instrumental measures, trained panel evaluations and consumer acceptance tests. Our results encourage planning consumer tests to support quality research.
24126312|Strawberry growth in Northern Europe is limited by a combination of drought, low temperatures, spring and winter frosts, the latter particularly without snow cover, resulting in a short vegetation period. Hence, the influence of temperature sums, cultivars, and blossom weevil Anthonomus rubi on fruit mass and yield were examined during 19992003 in Estonia. Strawberry cv. 'Korona' required the lowest temperature sum (>10 C) for flowering and cv. 'Kent' for ripening out of the four cultivars tested, i.e. 'Senga Sengana', 'Kent', 'Korona' and 'Polka', while cv. 'Polka' withstood extreme conditions like drought, high temperature and spring frosts with the retention of a good fruit yield. Temperature sums were found a suitable approach to describe the ecophysiological adaptation of strawberry plants to the harsh climate in Northern Europe. Wachstum und Ertrag von Erdbeeren in Nordeuropa werden durch geringe Temperaturen wie Spt- und Winterfrste  vor allem in Zeiten ohne Schneeauflage  und durch kurze Vegetationszeiten begrenzt. Daher sollte der Einfluss von Temperatursummen ber 10 C auf Wachstum und Fruchtertrag in Abhngigkeit von Sorte und Bltenbildung und dem Erdbeerbltenstecher Anthonomus rubi in einem fnfjhrigen Feldversuch in Estland untersucht werden. Von den vier untersuchten Sorten  einschlielich 'Senga Sengana' als Kontrolle  bentigte 'Korona' zum Blhen und 'Kent' zur Fruchtreife die geringste Temperatursumme. Von den vier Erdbeersorten war 'Polka' am wenigsten anfllig gegenber Trockenheit und Temperaturextremen wie Frsten. Temperatursummen erwiesen sich als geeignetes Mittel zur Ermitdung der kophysiologischen Anpassungsmglichkeiten einer Erdbeersorte an die harten Anbaubedingungen Nordeuropas.
24126309|Changes in the percentage and time of germination at various temperatures (15, 25, 35 C) and ABA (abscisic acid) content of pepper seeds harvested at 50, 60, 70 and 80 DAA (days after an thesis) were studied during growing seasons in 2001 and 2002. Seed dry mass ranged from 4.9 to 5.2 mg per seed in 2001, and from 4.7 to 5.0 mg per seed in 2002. However, seeds harvested at 70 DAA not only had maximum germination percentages, but also showed the lowest mean germination time for all three temperatures in both years. Delayed harvest (80 DAA) decreased germination percentages as a result of stress, and promoted viviparous germination in the mother plant. ABA content of the seeds increased gradually up to maturity, with values of 226 ng g-1 fresh weight (ng g-1 FW) at 70 DAA in 2001, and 203 ng g-1 FW at 60 DAA in 2002. It declined to a level between 85 and 90 ng g-1 FW in the final harvest of the both years. Germination at stressful temperatures and ABA contents of the pepper seeds with respect to seed development are discussed. Whrend der Vegetationsperioden 2001 und 2002 wurden die nderungen der Keimrate und der Keimdauer bei unterschiedlichen Temperaturen (15, 25, 35 C) sowie der ABA- (Abscisinsure) Gehalt von Paprikasaatgut, das 50, 60, 70 und 80 DAA (Tage nach der Anthese) geerntet worden war, untersucht. 2001 betrug die Samentrockenmasse 4.95.2 mg und 2002 4.75.0 mg pro Samen. In beiden Jahren wies das 70 DAA geerntete Saatgut bei allen drei Temperaturen die hchste Keimrate und die geringste durchschnittliche Keimdauer auf. Die sptere Ernte (80 DAA) reduzierte die Keimrate in Folge von Stress und frderte vivipare Keimung an der Mutterpflanze. Der ABA-Gehalt der Samen stieg bis zur Reife stufenweise an mit Werten, die 2001 226 ng g-1 Frischgewicht ( ng g-1 FW) bei 70 DAA und 2002 203 ng g-1 FW bei 60 DAA betrugen. Zum Zeitpunkt der letzten Ernte sank er in beiden Jahren auf einen Wert von 8590 ng g-1 FW ab. Die Keimung bei Stresstemperaturen und der ABA-Gehalt von Paprikasaatgut wird in Zusammenhang mit der Samenentwicklung wird diskutiert.
24126161|The response of in vitro grown apple plantlets onto the treatment with the growth retardant prohexadione-Ca is demonstrated with regards to their secondary metabolism and under the influence of N nutrition. Reported prohexadione-Ca induced changes of the flavonoid composition were the formation of the uncommon 3-deoxycatechin luteoliflavan, a decrease of catechins, procyanidins and flavonols, which was also observed in our experiments on 'Royal Gala' and 'Golden Delicious'. The extent of effects, however, was markedly modified by N-nutrition of the plantlets. In general, high N-nutrition reduces the amount of total phenolic compounds in apple leaves whereas low N supply favours the accumulation of flavonoids and the formation of resistance related compounds after prohexadione-Ca treatment. Die Vernderungen des Sekundrstoffwechsel von in vitro-kultivierten Apfel-Sprosskulturen nach Behandlung mit dem Wachstumsregulator Prohexadion-Ca und unter dem Einfluss der N-Ernhrung werden demonstriert. Erwartete Effekte bezglich der Flavonoidgehalte waren die Bildung des fr den Apfel ungewhnlichen 3-Deoxycatechins Luteoliflavan sowie eine Reduktion der Konzentrationen von Catechinen, Procyanidinen und Flavonolen, die in den vorgestellten Experimenten an 'Royal Gala' und 'Golden Delicious' auch beobachtet wurden. Das Ausma der Effekte wurde aber stark durch die N-Ernhrung modifiziert. Im Allgemeinen reduziert hohe N-Versorgung die Konzentration der phenolischen Verbindungen insgesamt, wohingegen eine mavolle N-Ernhrung die Akkumulation von Flavonoiden begnstigt und auch die Bildung der durch Prohexadion-Ca-Behandlung induzierten Verbindungen, die mit Resistenzreaktionen korrelieren, untersttzt.
24126389|The genus Campanula is composed of over 300 species but only a few of them are used as cut flowers. In order to diversify the production and to exploit local plants with potential ornamental characteristics, ethylene action and three treatments for extending the vase life were evaluated in Campanula barbata L., C. latifolia L., C. rapunculoides L. and C. trachelium L. Cut stems were subjected to the following treatments: 1-methylcyclopropene (1-MCP), reut in tap water at 90 C, Chrysal Clear, or ethylene and compared to one control in tap water. Pre-treatment with 1.14 L L-1 1-MCP, an inhibitor of ethylene action, for 6 h increased the vase life based on visual check for symptoms of senescence alterations, without any visible toxic effects. In particular, in C. barbata the average flower longevity was 4.2 d, twice longer than the other preservative treatments. In this species, 1-MCP treatment preserved more also the petal colour (L*=-1.50, a*=-1.07, b*=4.41), measured by means of a spectrophotometer. However, exogenously applied ethylene did not decrease bellflower vase life and gas chromatography analysis did not detect any endogenous ethylene production. This suggests that Campanula cut flowers are ethylene responsive but more sensitive protocols for studying ethylene action are needed. Considering the different species, C. rapunculoides resulted the most promising bellflower for its intrinsic ornamental and physiological characteristics.
24126283|The response to Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. melonis (F.o.m.) race 1 of 79 Cucumis melo L. genotypes - 56 accessions collected from different parts of Turkey, 5 local cultivars and 18 foreign genotypes - was determined by using pathogenicity tests and RAPD markers (E07 and G17). For pathogenicity tests, at least 15 individuals of each melon genotype were artificially inoculated by either conidia suspension culture or sand culture of F.o.m. race 1. Melon seedlings were evaluated on a 03 scale for the presence of vascular browning two weeks after inoculation with conidia suspension culture resp. four weeks after inoculation with sand culture. The disease incidence on the 79 melon genotypes ranged from 0 to 100 %. Seven melon genotypes were resistant (CU129, CU258, T8, Y9, Y10, Y15, and Y63), three melon genotypes (CU280, CU309, and T1) were heterogeneous, and all the others were susceptible to F.o.m. race 1 based on disease incidence and vascular browning. The success of the E07 marker in detecting susceptible genotypes was higher than that of G17; the mistmatch ratios of E07 and G17 markers were 5.06 and 58.23 %, respectively.
24126478|The study of root growth and development is a difficult branch of research due to the lack of accurate methodologies. All the approaches used until now to study root dynamics involve a profound disruption of the root environment causing approximations that compromise research goals. Before the technique reported here was developed, there were few commercially available software packages able to identify, measure and report root parameters as extensively. The scope of our work was to design software that would generate accurate and comprehensive data sets of root parameters such as number, length, diameter, area, volume, and branch number, angle, and hierarchy. Our aim was to generate accurate data at a lower resolution than the 12 pixels mm-1 (300 dots per inch) currently considered the minimum from several authors. DigiRoot is software for measurement of roots in any digital image format. The effects of resolution, orientation of the roots and method of image acquisition (scanned or photographed) on the software's accuracy were tested using objects of known diameters, lengths and angles. Of the previously mentioned test parameters, the only statistically significant effect was that of image resolution on root diameter. With minimal user interaction, DigiRoot accurately detects and analyzes roots as narrow as one pixel. The accuracy of the software decreases with decreased resolution, however its accuracy is still adequate at 1 pixel mm-1 (26 dpi). DigiRoot is new software available to researchers for the study of digital images of roots requiring a high level of accuracy even at low resolution. The software also provides results on branching hierarchy and angle of branch insertion.
24126272|Micropropagated 'Fuji' apple plants in Hoagland nutrient solution were subjected to water stress at different deficit intensities by regulating the osmotic potential of the solution with PEG-6000. Transport and distribution of 14C-assimilates among organs of previously water-stressed plants were compared with those under a normal water status by feeding leaves with 14CO2. Most 14C-assimilate was exported from the labelled leaves within 48 hours, and there were two peaks of export rate of 14C-assimilate in plants under a normal water status. No matter what deficit intensity was applied to the plants, water stress significantly decreased the export rate of 14C-assimilates from fed leaves, but did not modify the export patterns of 14C-assimilates. About 90 % of the 14C-assimilates exported from the labelled leaves within 48 hours were distributed in the above-ground parts of the plants under a normal water status while from one third to two thirds of the 14C-assimilates were transported from labelled leaves into the roots of the micropropagated plants under water stress depending on the deficit intensity. Moreover, water stress decreased the distribution coefficient (K) of 14C-assimilates in the shoot apex, and increased the Ks of the roots and the phloem of the plants. A lower K of the shoot apex of water stressed trees than that of well-watered ones may result in a decreased growth of shoots. The higher K of the roots of the plants under water stress may signify a stronger sink and also a greater reservoir of carbon assimilates in the roots than those of the plants under normal water situation. It is suggested that the K of the phloem within a short time after feeding the leaves with 14CO2 may only signify the quantity of 14C-assimilates transport to the roots or a temporary reservoir of carbon assimilates in the phloem. Mikrovermehrte und in Hoagland-Nhrlsung kultivierte Apfelpflanzen der Sorte 'Fuji' wurden unterschiedlichen Intensitten von Wasserstress ausgesetzt, wobei der osmotische Druck der Lsung mittels PEG-6000 verndert wurde. Durch die Zufhrung von 14CO2 ber die Bltter, konnte der Transport und die Verteilung der 14C-Assimilate in die Pflanzenteile von Pflanzen unter Wasserstress und Normalbedingungen verglichen werden. Der Groteil der 14C-Assimilate wurde innerhalb von 48 Stunden aus den markierten Blttern exportiert, dabei wies die Exportrate der normal versorgten Pflanzen zwei Peaks auf. Unabhngig vom Grad des Wasserdefizits, war die Exportrate aus den Blttern deutlich reduziert, ohne dabei das Exportmuster der 14C-Assimilate zu verndern. Bei normal versorgten Pflanzen wurden mehr als 90 % der innerhalb von 48 Stunden exportierten 14C-Assimilate in die oberidischen Pflanzenteile verbracht, wohingegen bei wassergestressten Pflanzen in Abhngigkeit vom Grad des Stresses zwischen einem und zwei Drittel der 14C-Assimilate in die Wurzeln transportiert wurde. Auerdem verringert Wasserstress den 14C-Assimilat-Verteilungskoeffizienten (K) in die Sprossspitze und erhht die Ks in die Wurzeln und das Phloem. Der geringere K in die Sprossspitzen bei wassergestressten Pflanzen knnte zu einem geringeren Sprosswachstum fhren. Der grere K in die Wurzeln wiederum knnte bei wassergestressten Pflanzen ein greres Sink und einen greren Kohlenstoffassimilatspeicher in den Wurzeln bewirken. Es scheint naheliegend, dass der K des Phloems zeitnah zur Zufhrung von 14CO2 nur einen Hinweis auf die Hhe des 14C-Assimilattransports in die Wurzeln oder einen zeitlich begrenzten Kohlenstoffassimilatspeicher im Phloem gibt.
24126179|Low-temperature disorders in nectarines (Prunus persica) can be delayed by storage in atmospheres containing elevated CO2; however, this benefit is limited to a few cultivars. The storage of produce at low temperatures itself leads to changes in protein synthesis; therefore, this study examined the applicability of 2-D electrophoresis to assess differences in protein production in cultivars of nectarine that either do ('Arctic Snow') or do not ('Red Gold') respond to elevated CO2 levels during storage. In addition, the effect of harvest maturity and their response to added ethylene was assessed. Fruit of the two cultivars were either ripened immediately after harvest at 20 C before protein extraction or stored in air, air + CO2, air + ethylene or air + CO2 + ethylene then ripened at 20 C before protein extraction. 2-D PAGE showed that the expression of approximately 30 proteins varied among cultivars and treatments. Two proteins showed clear differences in expression in both cultivars between fruit ripened immediately after harvest and those that had been stored. A second set of differences in protein expression was found in fruit of 'Red Gold' only and involved 12 proteins whose expression was either reduced or increased by storage: these proteins did not vary in expression in 'Arctic Snow'. A third set of differences in protein expression was observed in 'Arctic Snow' only in atmospheres containing ethylene. Several proteins were down-regulated by ethylene and this down-regulation was negated by the addition of CO2 to the storage atmosphere. Thus, differences in protein expression can be found between cultivars of nectarines that do or do not respond to the addition of CO2 to the storage atmosphere and in the cultivar that is known to respond to CO2, this gas was able to antagonise protein changes mediated by ethylene. Bei einigen wenigen Nektarinensorten (Prunus persica) knnen Klteschden durch die Zufuhr von CO2 zur Lageratmosphre hinausgezgert werden. Die Lagerung der Produkte bei niedrigen Temperaturen bewirkt allein schon nderungen in der Proteinsynthese. Aus diesem Grund wird hier die Anwendbarkeit der 2-D-Elektrophorese zur Erfassung der Unterschiede in der Proteinsynthese sowohl an Nektarinensorten, die auf die Erhhung des C02-Gehalts whrend der Lagerung reagieren ('Arctic Snow') als auch an solchen, die nicht reagieren ('Red Gold') untersucht. Zustzlich wird die Auswirkung der Reifung der Frchte und ihre Reaktion auf Ethylengaben ermittelt. Die Nachreife bei 20 C vor der Proteinextraktion erfolgte bei Frchten beider Sorten entweder sofort nach der Ernte oder im Anschluss an eine Lagerphase in Normalluft, in Normalluft + CO2, in Normalluft + Ethylen oder in Normalluft + CO2 + Ethylen. Die 2-D PAGE zeigte, dass die Expression von annhernd 30 Proteinen in Abhngigkeit von der Sorte und der Behandlung variierte. Zwei Proteine zeigten in beiden Sorten deutliche Expressionsunterschiede in Abhngigkeit davon, ob sie direkt nach der Ernte oder im Anschluss an eine Lagerphase nachreiften. Eine zweite Gruppe wurde nur bei Frchten von 'Red Gold' gefunden und umfasste 12 Proteine, deren Expression durch die Lagerung entweder verringert oder gesteigert wurde: die Expression dieser Proteine variierte bei 'Arctic Snow' nicht. Eine dritte Gruppe mit unterschiedlicher Proteinexpression wurde nur in Frchten von 'Arctic Snow' beobachtet, die in Atmosphre mit Ethylenzugabe gelagert worden waren. Zahlreiche Proteine wurden durch Ethylen abreguliert und diese Abregulation wurde durch die Zugabe von CO2 zur Lageratmosphre wieder aufgehoben. Folglich knnen Unterschiede in der Proteinexpression zwischen Nektarinensorten, die auf die Zugabe von CO2 zur Lageratmosphre reagieren oder nicht, gefunden werden und bei Sorten, deren vorhandene Reaktion auf CO2 bekannt ist, kann dieses Gas als Antagonist bei Ethylen-verursachten Proteinvernderungen wirken.
24126246|The effects of gibberellic acid (GA3), kinetin, the commercial preparations Promalin, Perlan (mixtures of GA4/7 and benzyladenine) and Novagib (GA4/7), and some of their combinations on fruit shape and quality of 'Red Chief Delicious' apples before and after cold storage were studied. Sprays with the chemicals were done once at petal fall. Determinations of fruit shape, expressed as the height/diameter ratio (H/D), fresh weight, seed number were made at harvest, and flesh firmness and the content in soluble solids, total sugars and L-malic acid were done at harvest and after four months in cold storage. Promalin, Perlan, Novagib+kinetin, kinetin+GA3 and kinetin improved fruit shape, by increasing the H/D ratio, and fruit weight in some cases. Total sugars and L-malic acid content of fruits were higher in all treatments compared with the control, at harvest. After four months in cold storage the content of total sugars increased in all treatments, the increase in the control being three times that of all other treatments. Soluble solids followed a similar pattern of change before and after storage. L-malic acid concentration decreased ten times in all treatments after storage, compared with the initial values at harvest, but remained higher than in the control. GA3 did not affect fruit shape but significantly improved all other quality parameters and the overall storability of apples. Flesh firmness before and after storage and the number of seeds were not affected. It was also shown that kinetin could replace successfully benzyladenine, which may present a potential health hazard.
24126523|The effects of fast neutron irradiation using an Americium-Beryllium source with a flux of 1.5  104 n cm-2 s-1 on the agronomic traits of three varieties of Nigerian pepper  Capsicum annuum var. acuminatum (MN/SH/001), C. annuum var. abbreviatum (MN/AR/002), and C. annuum var. grossum (MN/AT/003)  were studied. Seeds of each variety were irradiated for 0, 30, 60, 90 and 120 min before they were sown  with their respective controls  in order to assess the effects of the different irradiation treatments on the plants. All irradiation periods caused leaf abnormalities such as leaves with reduced size, leaves with invaginated or inverted margins, or with a blunt or bifurcated apex, when compared with control plants. Germination percentage tended to become reduce while there was a pronounced positive trend in plant height, number of leaves/plant, fruits/plant, seeds/fruit, weight, length and width of fruits, by increasing the irradiation period. However, 120 min was the most effective irradiation period to induce viable and useful mutations for yield parameters in pepper.
24126867|Fruit quality and flavour are important targets in all pear breeding programmes. Perceived sweetness is directly influenced by the amount and type of sugar accumulated in fruit. Limited information is available on sugar composition in pear fruit and published studies have been completed using cultivars rather than breeding populations. The objective of this research was to determine the quantitative genetic parameters of sugar content in fruit of interspecific hybrids from families making up a pear breeding population. Glucose, fructose, sucrose and sorbitol contents were measured in mature fruit. Most of the sugars, except for sorbitol, showed genetic variability and a relatively high (i.e., > 0.5) ratio between the estimated additive genetic variance and the total variance. Sorbitol showed a high negative genetic correlation (-0.65) with fructose. It could be suggested that the main product of sorbitol conversion was fructose. Sucrose showed a negative genetic correlation with glucose (-0.37) and fructose (-0.16), which would be expected given that sucrose is metabolised into fructose and glucose. Two parents with 100 % European parentage showed the highest empirical breeding values (eBV)s for fructose and total sugars. The parent with 100 % Asian parentage showed the lowest eBV for sorbitol. The mean percentages of the sugars across the entire population were: glucose 13 %, fructose 59 %, sucrose 8 % and sorbitol 20 %, indicating fructose was the main sugar with sucrose less prominent.
24126489|We investigated the effects of different wavelengths of photosynthetically active radiation generated by blue, green, yellow or red light-emitting diodes (LEDs) (peak wavelength: 470, 525, 590 or 625 nm, respectively) on quality preservation of tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) seedlings during low light irradiation storage. The photosynthetic photon flux (PPF) at the plant canopy level was automatically controlled using a proportional-integral-derivative controller in order to maintain the CO2 exchange rate of seedlings at zero. Nine seedlings were stored for 28 d in a storage case at 100.5 C and greater than 95 % RH. There was no significant difference in seedling dry weight before or after storage under any light irradiation (LI). The mean PPFs required for maintaining the CO2 exchange rate of seedlings at zero under the blue, green, yellow and red LIs for the last 2 weeks of storage were 3.5, 5.6, 5.2 and 4.1 mol m-2 s-1, respectively. Green light may help seedlings preserve their quality better than blue or red light; providing a vigorous and compact appearance with upright morphology and higher visual quality score.
24126145|Six cDNAs encoding expansins were isolated from cultured shoots (MdExp1), the flesh of ripening fruit (MdExp2, MdExp3, MdExp4), and fruit pedicel tissue (MdExp5, MdExp6) of apple (Malus  domestica Borkh.). We report here the expression characteristics of these MdExp genes during fruit ontogeny. MdExp1 was expressed in an up-down-up cycle from full-bloom stage to just before ripening. The expression of MdExp2 and MdExp5 was initiated when cell enlargement was started after the cell proliferation stage; the expression of MdExp5 was limited to the early rapid growth period. The up-down-up cycles were also detected in the transcripts of MdExp3 and MdExp4 throughout both growth stages, but the expression of MdExp3 was increased in the ripening stage. Transcripts of MdExp6 were not detected in any growth stage, but were induced by wounding. These results suggest that apple fruit requires at least five expansin genes during ontogeny, and that MdExp3 is a ripening-related expansin gene. Sechs cDNAs zur Kodierung von Expansinen wurden aus kultivierten Sprossen (MdExp1), dem Fruchtfleisch reifender Frchte (MdExp2, MdExp3, MdExp4) und aus Fruchtstielgewebe (MdExp5, MdExp6) des Apfels (Malus  domestica Borkh.) isoliert. Wir berichten hier ber das Expressionsverhalten dieser MdExp-Gene whrend der Fruchtontogenese. MdExp1 wurde vom Stadium der Vollblte bis kurz vor der Reife in einem Anstieg-Abfall-Anstieg-Zyklus exprimiert. Die Expression von MdExp2 und MdExp5 begann mit dem Zellwachstum im Anschluss an das Zellteilungsstadium; die Expression von MdExp5 war begrenzt auf die erste Schnellwuchsphase. Ein Anstieg-Abfall-Anstieg-Zyklus wurde auch whrend beider Wachstumsphasen bei der Transkription von MdExp3 und MdExp4 beobachtet, doch erhhte sich die Expression von MdExp3 whrend des Reifestadiums. Transkripte von MdExp6 wurden in keiner Wachstumsphase entdeckt, sie wurden jedoch bei Verwundung induziert. Diese Ergebnisse weisen darauf hin, dass bei der Apfelfrucht mindestens fnf Expansingene whrend der Ontogenese erforderlich sind und, dass MdExp3 ein in Beziehung zur Reife stehendes Expansingen ist.
24126786|The use of fresh cut vegetables has continued to increase in salad bars and fast food restaurants. Their storage life is influenced by their continued respiration and the biochemical activity associated with senescence. Enzymatic browning is one of the main causes of quality losses during postharvest storage. The combined use of modified atmosphere packaging and low temperature reduces respiration and delays senescence, thereby extending storage life. The objective of this work was to assess the suitability of a range of polymeric films for modified atmosphere packaging on butterhead, crisphead, latin and leafy lettuce types minimally processed during storage at 4C for 9 days. Multilayered polyolefin RD-106, PD-900 and PD-961EZ films with different gas permeability (oxygen permeability from 3000 to 11500 cm3 m2 24 h, 1 atm at 22.7 C, carbon dioxide permeability from 9800 to 30000 cm3 m2 24 h, 1 atm at 22.7 C) were tested. Phenylalanine ammonia lyase (PAL), polyphenol oxidase (PPO) and peroxidase (POD) activities, and the content of phenolic compounds were measured to relate them to overall visual quality, leaf edge browning and leaf surface browning. The variability in enzymatic activity was affected by both the type of lettuce and the permeability of the packaging material for O2 and CO2. A low chlorogenic acid concentration and the best organoleptic quality was achieved with the packaging material PD 900. The leafy lettuce type had the highest concentration of chlorogenic acid without quality losses by enzymatic browning. Leafy lettuce packed with multilayered polyolefins mantained an acceptable quality for consumption after 9 days of storage, independent on the polymeric film used as packaging material. Die Verwendung von frischgeschnittenem Gemse in Salattheken und Fast Food Restaurants nimmt weiterhin zu. Seine Lagerfhigkeit ist abhngig von der Atmung und den biochemischen Aktivitten in Zusammenhang mit der Seneszenz. Enzymatisch bedingtes Verbrunen ist einer der Hauptgrnde fr Qualittsverlust whrend der Lagerung. Die Kombination von Verpackung in modifizierter Atmosphre und niedrigen Temperaturen reduziert die Atmung und den Alterungsprozess und verlngert so die Lagerfhigkeit. Gegenstand dieser Untersuchung war es zu beurteilen, inwiefern sich eine Reihe von Polymerfolien fr die Verpackung von geringfgig bearbeiteten Kopf-, Blatt- und Pflcksalaten in modifizierter Atmosphre mit anschlieender Lagerung bei 4 C ber 9 Tage, eignen. Die vielschichtige Polyolefinfolien, RD-106, PD-900 und PD-961EZ mit unterschiedlicher Durchlssigkeit (Sauerstoffdurchlssigkeit zwischen 3000 und 11500 cm3 m2 24 h, 1 atm bei 22.7 C, CO2-Durchlssigkeit zwischen 9800 und 30000 cm3 m2 24 h, 1 atm bei 22.7 C) wurden untersucht. Phenylalaninammoniumlyase- (PAL), Polyphenoloxidase- (PPO) und  peroxidase- (POD) Aktivitten und der Gehalt an phenolischen Bestandteilen wurden gemessen und in Beziehung zu den gesamten visuellen Qualittsmerkmalen, sowie Blattrand- und Blattoberflchenverbrunung gestellt. Die Variabilitt der Enzymaktivitt wurde durch den Salattyp und die Durchlssigkeit des Verpackungsmaterials fr O2 und CO2 bedingt Eine geringe Chlorogensurekonzentration und die beste organoleptische Qualitt wurde mit dem Verpackungsmaterial PD 900 erzielt. Die Pflcksalate wiesen die hchsten Chlorogensurekonzentrationen, ohne dass Qualittsverluste durch enzymatisches Verbrunen auftraten. Pflcksalate, die in vielschichtige Polyolefine verpackt wurden, behielten ihre akzeptable Verzehrqualitt auch nach neuntgiger Lagerung.
24126331|Effect of four non-chemical sanitation treatments was evaluated on spring and autumn leaf infection by Venturia inaequalis and on leaf litter degradation in two high-density organic apple orchards (Eperjeske and Debrecen-Jzsa, Hungary) on two moderately scab-susceptible apple cultivars ('Jonathan' and 'Elstar') from 2001 to 2003. The sanitation treatments were: removal of fallen leaves, disc cultivation, shredding, and covering the orchard floor with plastic foils. At both locations and in both years, all treatments significantly (P<0.01) reduced leaf litter density. By mid-April, leaf litter density compared to non-sanitized plots was reduced by 82.888.6 %, 49.757.8 %, 42.249.6 %, and 99.5100 %, in treatments of removal of fallen leaves, disc cultivation, shredding, and covering the orchard floor with plastic foils, respectively. These treatments, in the same order, reduced spur-leaf scab incidence in spring by 42.246.5 %, 7.1 25.7 %, 25.335.7 %, and 55.968.6 %, respectively, compared to non-sanitized plots. Compared to non-sanitized plots, leaf scab incidence in autumn was significantly lower (P<0.05) only in the treatment of covering orchard floor with plastic foils in 2002 and 2003, in which percent reduction of scab was between 16.6 % and 24.9 % and between 19.6 % and 27.3 %, respectively. Applicability of the sanitation treatments in organic apple production is discussed.
24126319|Studies on morpho-physiological characters, contents of total phenols and endogenous hormones in the seedlings of seven polyembryonic mango cultivars, 'Muvandan', 'Vellaikolamban', 'Chandrakiran', 'Kurukan', 'Bappakai', 'Mylepelian' and 'Olour' and monoembryonic cultivar, 'Alphonso' raised under pot culture conditions monitored at 30, 60 and 120 days of growth from transplanting revealed that the seedling vigour of polyembryonic cvs 'Muvandan' and 'Bappakai' and of the monoembryonic cv. 'Alphonso' was high. The cv. 'Vellaikolamban' was least vigorous. The leaf area at 60 days of seedling growth was low in less vigorous cvs 'Kurukan' and 'Vellaikolamban' and high in 'Muvandan'. The leaf water potential was less negative in less vigorous cvs 'Vellaikolamban', 'Kurukan' and 'Chandrakiran'. The total phenol and ABA in the leaves were high in less vigour cvs 'Vellaikolamban' and 'Kurukan' at all seedling growth stages. The leaves of vigorous cvs 'Bappakai' and 'Muvandan' had high cytokinins, t- zeatin riboside and dihydrozeatin zeatin riboside levels at 30, 60 and 120 days and IAA level at 30 and 60 days. Plant height and stem girth were negatively correlated with leaf total phenol and ABA contents. Plant height was positively correlated with leaf water potential and cytokinins (t-zeatin riboside and dihydrozeatin zeatin riboside) content. Thus a higher level of growth inhibitor, ABA and phenols concurrently with lower levels of growth promoters imparted growth restriction of seedlings. It is suggested that the selection of size controlling rootstocks at nursery stage can be made by assessing the leaf water potential, total phenols and/or ABA. Untersuchungen zu morphologisch-physiologischen Eigenschaften, dem Gesamtgehalt an Phenolen und endogenen Hormonen in den Smlingen von sieben mehrkeimigen Mangosorten, 'Muvandan', 'Vellaikolamban', 'Chandrakiran', 'Kurukan', 'Bappakai', 'Mylepelian' und 'Olour', sowie der einkeimigen Sorte 'Alphonso', die in Tpfen kultiviert und 30, 60 und 120 Tage nach der Umsetzung bonitiert wurden, zeigten, dass die Wchsigkeit der mehrkeimigen Sorten 'Muvandan' und 'Bappakai' sowie der einkeimigen Sorte 'Alphonso' gro war. Die Sorte 'Vellaikolamban' war am schwachwchsigsten. 60 Tage nach dem Verpflanzen waren die Blattflchen der schwcherwchsigen Sorten 'Kurukan' und 'Vellaikolamban' am kleinsten und die von 'Muvandan' am grten. Das Wasserpotential der Bltter war bei den schwcherwchsigen 'Vellaikolamban', 'Kurukan' and 'Chandrakiran' weniger stark negativ. Der Gehalt an Gesamtphenolen und ABA in den Blttern war im gesamten Versuchszeitraum bei den schwcherwchsigen Sorten 'Vellaikolamban' und 'Kurukan' am hchsten. Die Bltter der wchsigen Sorten 'Bappakai' und 'Muvandan' hatten nach 30, 60 und 120 Tagen hohe Cytokinin-, t-Zeatinribosid- und Dihydrozeatin Zeatinribosid-Werte und nach 30 und 60 Tagen hohe IAA-Werte. Pflanzenhhe und Stammumfang waren negativ korreliert mit dem Gesamtphenol- und ABA-Gehalt der Bltter. Pflanzenhhe und Wasserpotential der Bltter sowie Cyokinin- (t-Zeatinribosid- und Dihydrozeatin Zeatinribosid-) Gehalt sind positiv korreliert. Folglich fhrt ein hherer Gehalt an Wuchshemmstoffen, ABA und Phenolen in Verbindung mit einem geringeren Gehalt an Wachstumspromotoren zu Wachstumsbeschrnkungen der Smlinge. Es wird vorgeschlagen, die Selektion auf Schwachwchsigkeit im Baumschulstadium durch Bestimmung des Wasserpotentials der Bltter, der Gesamtphenole und/oder ABA durchzufhren.
24126844|Tomato bruising is a major type of postharvest damage that substantially reduces fruit quality and marketability. Bruises show local tissue softening in parallel with textural changes. Among perishable commodities, tomatoes are considerably sensitive to mechanical damage. Impact power and fruit-related properties that affect tomato bruise susceptibility were investigated in this study. A bruise prediction model was constructed for the damage susceptibility of tomato (measured by absorbed energy) using multiple linear regression analyses. Tomatoes were subjected to dynamic loading by means of a pendulum at three levels of impact. Significant effects of acoustic stiffness, temperature, the radius of curvature and some interactions on bruising were obtained at 5 % probability level. It was concluded that increases in temperature during impacts as well as high acoustic stiffness and low radius of curvature of fruit will reduce the absorbed energy and, thus alleviate bruise damage of tomatoes.
24126805|The paper reports the profile of individual organic acids and phenolic content in fresh fruit and jam from three populations of cornelian cherry (Cornus mas L.) wild genotypes originating from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Immediately after harvest, jams were cooked at maximum 80 C from the corresponding fruit. The jam was sampled in five replications at three different storage times for each region: immediately after processing, and then after four and six months of storage, for individual organic acids and phenolics by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The phenolic compounds found in the fresh fruit were also found in the jams  however, in significantly lower amounts in jam. The three most abundant phenolic compounds found in cornelian cherry fruit as well as in the corresponding jams were procyanidin B1, quercetin 3-O-robinobioside and peonidin 3-O-glucoside. Jam contained dramatically lower levels of phenolic compounds compared to fresh fruit. The most stable phenolic compounds were flavonols where the smallest losses were recorded. The levels of flavan 3-ols, hydroxycinnamic acid, flavonols and anthocyanins declined more during jam processing than during storage, with a significant influence of the growing region.
24126812|The preparation of natural bracken (Pteridium aquilinum L. Kuhn) from the field to a compost suitable for acid loving plants is described. Key chemical and physical characteristics of the compost were determined by laboratory assessments of particle size, pH, air filled porosity (AFP), water retention characteristics, nitrogen draw down index (NDI) and basic chemistry. The procedure to ensure the breakdown of Ptaquiloside carcinogens is discussed. The material is naturally N poor, K rich with pH < 5.0, at cutting. During composting, particle size declines but pH naturally rises. Options to retain low pH and improve the water holding capacity are discussed. Nitrogen lock-up is similar to peat, but conductivity is lower, making nutrient management of pot plants easy. Water management is the key to successful use in the nursery. This plant is a highly sustainable resource, regaining biomass if cut in alternate years, growing along the western oceanic areas of Europe, particularly on light acid soils, from Norway to Spain and from Ireland eastward beyond Germany.
24126137|The effectiveness of postharvest hot water (at 53 C for 3 and 6 min; at 48 C for 12 min) and curing treatments (at 53 C for 1 and 6 h; at 48 C for 6 h) on chilling injury, decay and postharvest quality of 'Clementine' mandarins (Citrus reticulata (L.) Osbeck) during a two-month storage at 1 C and subsequently one week of simulated shelf-life at 20 C, was investigated. The fruits were not de-greened, waxed, or treated with any postharvest fungicides before and after storage. Chilling injury and decay were prevented by all hot water and curing treatments. Curing treatment at 53 C for 6 h dramatically reduced decay compared to other treatment and chilling injury were not developed, but this treatment ranked last after 60 days of storage for overall quality. Weight loss, juice yield, total soluble solids, and total soluble solids/acid ratio were higher in cured fruit than in hot water dipped fruit. However, titratable acid, ascorbic acid, and overall quality were lower in cured fruit than control and hot water dipped fruit. There were no differences between heat-treated and control fruit in terms of peel colour. Detrimental effects on quality parameters of mandarins did not occur either in hot water or curing treatments. Overall, it was concluded that pre-storage hot water and curing effectively induce tolerance to chilling injury and they constitute an alternative to chemical treatment for 'Clementine' mandarins without impairing any other quality attributes. Die Wirksamkeit einer Heiwasser- (53 C, 3 und 6 min lang; 48 C, 12 min lang) bzw. einer trockenen Wrmebehandlung (53 C, 1 und 6 h lang; 48 C, 6 h lang) nach der Ernte hinsichtlich Klteschden, Fulnis und Verbrauchsqualitt wurde an Clementinen (Citrus reticulata (L.) Osbeck) untersucht, die anschlieend zwei Monate bei 1 C und zur Simulation der Verkaufssituation eine Woche bei 20 C gelagert wurden. Die Frchte wurden vor und nach der Lagerung weder entgrnt, gewachst noch mit Lagerfungiziden behandelt. Alle Heiwasser- und trockene Wrmebehandlungen verhinderten Klteschden und Fulnis. Im Vergleich zu den brigen Behandlungen verminderte die Wrmebehandlung bei 53 C ber 6 h die Fulnis deutlich und Klteschden blieben aus, doch lag diese Behandlungsmethode nach 60 Tagen Lagerung in der Gesamtqualitt an letzter Stelle. Gewichtsverlust, Saftausbeute, Trockensubstanz und das Trockensubstanz/Sureverhlnis waren bei trockenbehandelten Frchten hher als bei den heiwasserbehandelten. Dagegen waren titrierbare Sure, Ascorbinsure und Gesamtqualitt bei trockenbehandelten Frchten geringer als bei Kontroll- und heiwasserbehandelten Frchten. Hinsichtlich Schalenfarben traten keinerlei Unterschiede zwischen den wrmebehandelten und der unbehandelten Kontrolle auf. Weder bei den Heiwasser- noch bei den Wrme-behandelten Mandarinen wurden nachteilige Effekte auf die Qualittsparameter beobachtet. Zusammenfassend kann gesagt werden, dass eine vor der Lagerung durchgefhrte Heiwasser- oder trockene Wrmebehandlung bei Clementinen eine Khletoleranz induziert und eine Alternative zur chemischen Behandlung darstellt, ohne dass dadurch andere Qualittsmerkmale beeintrchtigt wrden.
24126826|This study examines an irrigation scheduling technique for tomato (Solanum lycopersicum L. 'Starbuck F1') cultivation aimed at avoiding effluent from coir substrate hydroponic system. The technique utilized a frequency domain reflectometry (FDR) sensor that controlled irrigation to preset volumetric water levels. For comparison, a time-clock scheduling was examined. When the volumetric water content in the substrate was controlled at 40 or 50 % by the FDR, there was no leaching of drain water over the entire investigation period. When the volumetric water content was controlled at 60 % by the FDR or timer-set, drainage ratio to the total irrigation was 22 or 38 %, respectively, from 32 to 69 days after transplant (DAT), while from 70 DAT onwards, the 60 % treatment ceased its drainage. The EC level in the substrate in the 40 and 50 % treatments was lower during irrigation-off hours than those during irrigation-on hours, which was opposite to that in the 60 % treatment during 25 to 69 DAT. While there was no significant difference in plant growth among the treatments at 30 DAT, the plant height, fresh weights of leaf and stem, and numbers of leaves at 102 DAT showed significant (P < 0.05) reduction under the 40 and 50 % treatments, compared to that under the 60 % and timer-set treatments. A 24 and 26 % of the total fruit number under the 40 and 50 % treatment, respectively, was affected by blossom-end rot (BER), whereas no BER was observed in the 60 % or timer-set treatment. These results indicate that controlling the volumetric water content of the substrate within a range of 40 and 50 % for the entire growth period was too low during the late spring to summer season. Efficient irrigation scheduling to obtain a drainage-free system during late spring to summer season can be achieved by starting to control the volumetric water content of substrate between 40 and 50 % by the FDR, and then by increasing it between 60 and 70 % with close observations of patterns of the water content and the EC level of the substrate.
24126908|2,4-D is a selective post-emergence broadleaf herbicide that is widely used in numerous agricultural crops, forestry, aquatics, as well as turfgrass systems including athletic fields. While 2,4-D has been routinely applied in numerous commodities worldwide since the 1950's, its use has been questioned for decades due to toxicological concerns. Previous research suggests 2,4-D is not readily dislodged (< 10 % of the applied) from treated turfgrass after application; however, sample collections have typically been conducted in the afternoon when turfgrass foliage is dry. Due to 2,4-D's high water solubility coupled with reports stating < 50 % of applied 2,4-D is sorbed by plants, research was conducted to quantify dislodgeable 2,4-D on a simulated football field over time. Five sample collection times within a day (TWD) (5:00, 7:00, 9:00,11:00, or 13:00) were evaluated in each of five days after treatment (DAT) (1, 2, 3, 6, or 12). The author's hypothesis was accepted, as dislodgeable 2,4-D decreased as TWD and DAT increased. While dislodgeable 2,4-D decreases over DAT are likely due to a culmination of dissipation processes, data suggest the effect of turfgrass canopy moisture largely impacts dislodgeable 2,4-D over TWD. 2,4-D residues consistently decreased each day from 1 to 3 DAT at both 5:00 and 7:00, while samples collected at 9:00 and 11:00 were higher at 1 DAT than 2 or 3 DAT. Further, no differences were detected across DAT for samples collected at 13:00. When comparing TWD across DAT, data suggest 2,4-D re-suspends on treated turfgrass blades overnight, as 2,4-D dislodged at 13:00 on 1 DAT was 95 % less than samples collected the following morning at 5:00 and 7:00. Further, 2,4-D dislodged at 13:00 on 2 DAT was 96 % less than 5:00 at 3 DAT. Correlations between 2,4-D dislodged with relative humidity and the difference between the ambient air temperature and dew point suggest this is due to atmospheric conditions being more favorable for dew formation at earlier TWD sampling times.
24126714|The major aim of this study was to determine the effect of the modulation of sorbitol dehydrogenase activity on sugar partitioning in apple leaves at different developmental stages. Transgenic plants with regulated sorbitol dehydrogenase (SDH) activity were obtained using transgenic sense and antisense technology. Plants were analyzed using native Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis assay and western blotting. Sugar levels (glucose, fructose, sorbitol and sucrose) were determined in leaves at different developmental stages. The two antisense lines (A090802-1 and A011803/A) showed reduced SDH activity in immature leaves while the sense lines (S071502 and S091202) showed similar SDH activity to untransformed controls. Western blot analysis partially correlated with activity assays implying the possibility of post-transcriptional regulation. Differences in SDH activity were associated with an altered fructose:sorbitol ratio in immature leaves of transgenic plants. Increased levels of glucose in immature and middle stage leaves were observed in antisense line A011803/A. Differences in fructose sorbitol and sorbitobsucrose ratios among transformants were not significant in mature, fully expanded leaves. These results suggest that the differential regulation of SDH activity in immature leaves could have dramatic consequences on the sugar partitioning between sink and source vegetative tissues and consequently on the vegetative growth of apple plants.
24126511|The ornamental qualities of Camellia japonica have long been of interest to horticulturists. The European garden plant market has traditionally been characterized by erect, branched and flowered plants. More recently, a new market linked to increasing urbanization has developed for compact, highly branched and flowered plants to decorate balconies and patios. Two flushes are formed per year in temperate climates, and three years are required to obtain a garden plant. In the humid, tropical climate of Reunion Island, at an altitude of 700 m, three to four flushes are formed in a single growing season. Under these conditions and with no pruning, it is possible to produce an upright plant with a height of 48.5 cm and 7.5 branchings, adapted to the traditional garden market. With two prunings and the same growing period, a compact plant with a height of 25.4 and 17.0 branchings can be produced, adapted to the new balcony-patio market. In both cases, floral induction occurs in November when the nighttime temperature is above 15 C. This research shows that it is possible to generate diversified and innovative forms of Camellia japonica with considerable marketing potential using adapted pruning and under appropriate climatic conditions.
24126491|As part of a research project 13 cultivars were planted in 2005 at 11 sites in 5 different Austrian regions. The aim was to find new cultivars tolerant to the soil-borne pathogen Verticillium dahliae and to leaf/fruit diseases, with high yield and good fruit quality, to serve as alternative to 'Elsanta', a highly susceptible cultivar regarding soil-borne diseases. Infestation with V. dahliae was evaluated in 2005 and 2006 at 7 sites and in 2007 at 3 sites. Moreover marketable yield, percentage of different categories of unmarketable fruits, plant vigour, and incidence of the blossom weevil Anthonomus rubi, of chlorosis and of leaf spot diseases were assessed on 2 of the sites in 2006 and 2007. 'Elsanta' showed the highest infestation with V. dahliae whereas 'Salsa' and 'Daroyal' were most tolerant. 'Daroyal', 'Queen Elisa', 'Eva' and 'Dora' showed very high plant vigour. 'Dora', 'Eva', 'Queen Elisa' and 'Daroyal' recorded significantly higher losses by the blossom weevil than 'Alice'. Highest marketable yield per plant had the late ripening cultivars, particularly 'Salsa' and 'Sonata'. Of all early ripening cultivars tested, 'Darselect' showed the highest yield, followed by 'Elsanta', 'Daroyal' and 'Alba'. Summing up all the results, 'Alba', 'Alice', 'Daroyal', 'Darselect' and 'Salsa' can be recommended for organic production. 'Elsanta' and 'Sonata' had high yield under organic farming conditions, but are highly susceptible to V. dahliae. 'Salsa', 'Daroyal', 'Alice', 'Record' and 'Queen Elisa' are suitable for growing in Verticillium-infested soils. As new alternatives to 'Elsanta', the early ripening cultivars 'Alba', 'Clery', 'Daroyal' and 'Queen Elisa' can be used, though 'Clery' and 'Queen Elisa' had rather low yield under organic farming conditions and 'Alba' and 'Clery' are only partially tolerant to V. dahliae. 'Divine' and 'Dora' had low yield and are susceptible to Verticillium-wilt and 'Record' is prone to grey mould. These cultivars cannot be recommended for organic production.
24134255|The protective effects of the growth regulator prohexadione-calcium and a mixture of the antioxidant a-tocopherol with the cryoprotector glycerol against freezing injury were examined in leaves of apple (Malus domestica Borkh.) seedlings and in flowering branches of various apple varieties. Apple seedlings were treated with prohexadione-Ca two and nine days before freezing incidences. The results were compared with the data obtained, from plants pretreated with -tocopherol/glycerine and exposure to artificial and natural frost. Chlorophyll fluorescence was measured for the determination of intensity of cold damage in apple seedlings cv. 'Golden Delicious'. Frost injury was significantly reduced due to the application of prohexadione-Ca. The photochemical efficiency of the electron transport system was slightly elevated in leaves of pre-treated apple seedlings. Artificial cold treatments of flowers resulted in reduced damage in plants treated with prohexadione-Ca compared to the control. The protective effect was also observed in flowers of orchard trees, especially after natural freezing events, which turned out to be more destructive than artificial freezing. In addition, the formulations containing -tocopherol/glycerol gave significant protection against freezing injury, in leaves of apple seedlings as well as in flowers of orchard trees. Ein mglicher Effekt des Wachstumsregulators Prohexadion-Calcium wurde im Vergleich zu einer -Tocopherol/Glycerin-Formulierung hinsichtlich der Wirksamkeit gegenber Frost-induzierten Pflanzenschden bei Apfelsmlingsblttern sowie bei Blten verschiedener Apfelsorten geprft. Die Apfelsmlinge wurden mit Prohexadion-Calcium zwei bzw. neun Tage vor dem Auftreten des Frostes behandelt. Die Tocopherol/Glycerin- Applikationen erfolgten 24 h bzw. 48 h vor dem Eintreten des Frostereignisses. Das Pflanzenmaterial wurde sowohl einem knstlichen, aber auch einem natrlichen Frost ausgesetzt. Chlorophyllfluoreszenzmessungen an Apfelsmlingen haben gezeigt, das s die Frostschden durch Applikation von Prohexadion-Ca reduziert werden konnten. Die relative Chlorophyllfluoreszenz war in den mit Prohexadion-Ca behandelten Pflanzen geringfgig erhht im Vergleich zu den unbehandelten Pflanzen nach Frostexposition. Eine Prohexadion-Ca-Vorbehandlung resultierte auch bei Apfelblten in einem verminderten Auftreten von Frostschden nach Einwirkung von knstlichem, aber auch von natrlichem Frost im Freiland, wobei dem natrlichen Frost im Vergleich zum knstlichen Frostereignis ein hheres Schadpotential zugeschrieben wurde. Auch die Vorbehandlung mit -Tocopherol/Glycerin-Lsungen hatte bei Apfelsmlingen wie auch bei Apfelblten eine mindernde Wirkung gegenber knstlichem und natrlichen Frost zur Folge.
24126364|In twelve EU countries, the lower VAT-tariff is applied to flowers and plants in order to promote the production and employment in floriculture. This paper assesses whether the VAT-regulation for flowers and plants achieves the goals set  promoting consumer demand and production and employment in the ornamental supply chain  (effectiveness) and at what cost (efficiency). The empirical results show that the VAT-regulation for floriculture is effective, but not very efficient.
24126205|The parameters of external fruit quality (colour, firmness, weight, diameter and height of fruits, length and thickness of fruit stalk) and internal fruit quality (content of individual sugars and organic acids) of the 5 apple 'Gala' clones ('Red Gala 95', 'Royal Gala', 'Mondial Gala', 'Schniga Gala', 'Galaxy') and the parental cultivar 'Gala' were evaluated in two cropping years. The proportion of the fruit surface colouring of the clones during both years was 80 %, while the parental cultivar exhibited from 60 to 80 % coloration. In the first years of cropping the fruits of the 'Schniga Gala' already regressed to yellow in higher proportion which is probably due to the instability of stronger red coloration. The clones differed in their stem lengths, but the differences in dimensions and firmness of the clones were not significant. The contents of fructose and sorbitol in the 'Gala' clones differed significandy during both years, while the contents of glucose and sucrose showed differences only in the first year. The contents of total soluble solids, malic and citric acids among the 'Gala' cultivar and its clones were also different in both years, but there were no differences in the contents of shikimic and fumaric acids. The comparisons between the clones and the parental cultivar in their external and internal qualities proved that favourable pedoclimatic conditions and application of suitable technologies enable the clones and the parental cultivar to develop fruits of good quality, with attractive appearance and sweet flavour. Among the studied clones, an excellent internal and external quality of fruits was reached at 'Royal Gala' and 'Galaxy'. Verschiedene Parameter der usseren (Fruchtfarbe, -festigkeit, -gewicht und -hhe sowie Stiellnge und -dicke) und inneren Fruchtqualitt (Gehalt an verschiedenen Zuckern und organischen Suren) von pfeln der Ausgangssorte 'Gala' sowie fnf davon abstammender Klone ('Red Gala 95', 'Royal Gala', 'Mondial Gala', 'Schniga Gala', 'Galaxy') wurden ber zwei Erntejahre erfasst. Der Anteil der Deckfarbe lag in beiden Jahren bei allen Klonfrchten ber 80 %, bei der Ausgangssorte zwischen 60 und 80 %. Die Fruchtfarbe des Klons 'Schniga Gala' tendierte schon im ersten Jahren zu Gelbtnen, was ein Zeichen fr die Instabilitt der roten Deckfarbe sein knnte. Signifikante Unterschied zwischen den Klonen konnten bei der Stiellnge nachgewiesen werden, die Unterschiede bei den Fruchtgreparametern und der Fruchtfestigkeit waren nicht signifikant. Die Fructose- und Sorbitolgehalte der 'Gala'-Klone wiesen in beiden Jahren signifikante Unterschiede auf, whrend diese Unterschiede im Glucose- und Saccharosegehalte nur im ersten Jahr signifikant waren. Auch die Gehalte an lslichen Kohlenhydraten sowie an pfel- und Zitronensure zeigten in beiden Jahren Unterschiede zwischen der Standardsorte und ihren Klonen, diese Unterschiede waren bei der Shikimi- und Fumarsure nicht nachweisbar. Die durchgefhrten Vergleichsanalysen zwischen mehreren ueren und inneren Fruchteigenschaften zeigten, dass unter gnstigen Boden- und Klimaverhltnissen sowohl die Ausgangssorte als auch ihre Klone, Frchte mit attraktivem Aussehen und harmonischem Geschmack produzieren kann. Von den untersuchten Klonen wiesen 'Royal Gala' und 'Galaxy' besonders gute uere und innere Fruchteigenschaften auf.
24126147|Cyclic drought as a single stress factor or combined with low phosphorus (P) and/or low nitrogen (N) availability was tested on plant quality and post-production performance in Campanula carpatica 'Uniform'. Drought stressed plants were irrigated when the soil water potential s reached below 800 hPa and control plants were irrigated when s reached below 200 hPa. The growth substrate was a peat:perlite mixture. Plant height, leaf number, total leaf area, number of flower buds and total fresh and dry weight were reduced by continuous cyclic drought stress and by interrupted cyclic drought stress in combination with either low P alone or a combination of low P and low N. Low N combined with interrupted cyclic drought stress did not reduce plant height compared with cyclic drought as a single stress factor. Apparently, drought stress combined with low N availability favoured vegetative growth at the expense of reproductive growth, whereas dry matter in low P plants was distributed in favour of flower production. All plants produced with drought stress were more tolerant to a post-production drought stress treatment compared with control plants. Low P availability combined with interrupted drought stress during production improved the post-harvest stress tolerance to a larger extent than growing plants with drought stress and standard P levels. An Campanula carpatica 'Uniform' wurden die Auswirkungen zyklischer Trockenheit als alleinigem Stressfaktor oder in Kombination mit geringer Phosphor- (P) und/oder Stickstoff-(N) Verfgbarkeit auf die Pflanzenqualitt whrend der Kultur und beim Endverbraucher untersucht. Die trockengestressten Pflanzen wurden bewssert, wenn das Bodenwasserpotentials s unter -800 hPa und die Kontrollpflanzen, wenn s unter -200 hPa sank. Als Substrat diente eine Torf:Perlit Mischung. Anhaltender und unterbrochener zyklischer Trockenstress in Kombination mit geringem P oder einer Kombination von geringem P und N reduzierte die Pflanzenhhe, die Blattzahl, die Gesamtblattflche, die Anzahl Bltenknospen sowie das Frisch- und Trockengewicht. Die Kombination von geringem N und unterbrochenem zyklischen Trockenstress fhrte im Vergleich mit zyklischer Trockenheit als alleinigem Stressfaktor nicht zu geringerer Pflanzenhhe. Anscheinend begnstigte Trockenstress in Kombination mit geringer N-Versorgung das vegetative Wachstum auf Kosten des generativen, wohingegen die Trockenmasse in Pflanzen mit wenig P zu Gunsten der Bltenbildung verteilt wurde. Alle whrend der Kultur trockengestressten Pflanzen waren beim Endverbraucher toleranter gegen Trockenheit als die Kontrollpflanzen. Geringe P-Verfgbarkeit kombiniert mit unterbrochenem Trockenstress verbesserte die Stresstoleranz der Pflanzen beim Endverbraucher in strkerem Mae als eine Kultur mit Trockenstress und normaler P-Versorgung.
24126380|Strawberry plants (Fragaria  ananassa Duch.) are planted in Canadian nurseries in spring to be dug in autumn as bare-root transplants for winter annual plasticulture fruit production in the south-eastern U.S.A.. A series of whole plant harvests were performed on 'Sweet Charlie' and 'Camarosa' strawberry plants in a nursery and a plasticulture fruit field to study their pattern of dry matter partitioning. Plants were either treated with prohexadione-calcium or mowed, or treated with prohexadione-calcium and mowed in the nursery and compared to untreated plants. All treatments caused a reduction in plant height at the time bare-roots transplants were dug in the nursery. Treated plants allocated more dry matter to root and less to leaves, resulting in an increase in root to shoot ratio and this effect lasted until plants were well established after transplantation into the plasticulture system. By fruiting, treated plants allocated more biomass to fruits, and this difference was due to increased fruit number and not increased fruit size. Untreated plants allocated more to leaves, both in number and percentage, and to stems. Prohexadione-calcium increased root allocation, and mowing (alone or combined with prohexadione-calcium) decreased it. Plants that were prohexadione-calcium-treated and mowed had the highest harvest index and untreated plants had the lowest. 'Camarosa' developed many more leaves and proportionally less fruits than 'Sweet Charlie' during the fruiting phase.
