24319743|Nutrient solution leached through soil in which wax myrtle was rooted inhibited growth of schinus. Aqueous leaf extracts of wax myrtle leaves inhibit germination of beans, and possibly of schinus. Allelopathy by wax myrtle reduces the vigor of schinus, and may increase its susceptibility to competitors and pests. Because of the ecological similarity of wax myrtle and schinus, encouragement of myrtle growth may be an effective biological control tool.
24320682|One species of cattails, Typha domingensis, was screened for allelopathic chemicals. Cattail plants differing in stages of maturation, were collected from two locations. Portions of the plants (stem base, roots and the surrounding detritus) were separated, and then either extracted with deionized water at room temperature or extracted in an autoclave for 25 min. at 120C and 15 psi. The organic content was the same for both methods (6176 vs 6194 ppm, for room temperature and autoclaved, respectively). Aqueous phenol was used as a standard. Bioassays were performed using three varieties of lettuce seeds (Black Seeded Simpson, Salad Bowl, and Bibb), as well as on Red Devil B radish seeds. Behavior was similar for all varieties of lettuce (abnormal growth) and delay in germination for radish seeds in the presence of extracts. Seedling growth using the autoclaved extracts or room temperature extracts resulted in abnormal development. EC50 for inhibition of growth of lettuce seeds was 90 ppm(as organic carbon, Corg) versus about 10 ppm phenol (or 7.7 ppm Corg). Partial purification using a C8 column, provided fractions of the cattail extract containing inhibitory agents. These fractions were used to imbibe test lettuce seeds to help provide additional allelopathic characterization. Lyngbya majuscula was also studied and inhibition of oxygen production (Warburg apparatus) occurred after adding extracts. Total carbon and inorganic carbon analyses were performed on the extracts.
24319622|Sand samples from the intertidal zone of five marine sand beaches of the Florida Gulf coast and two beaches in the Bahamas were positive without exception for species of Azotobacter. If nitrogen fixation by Azotobacter occurs in marine sand beaches, as these observations suggest, this process may contribute significantly to the basic productivity of the interstitial unicellular flora and to that of the benthic algae and seagrasses adjacent to sea beaches.
24320385|The changes in distribution of the macroalga Caulerpa prolifera was determined between 1986 and 1989 in the northern and central portion of the Indian River lagoon, Florida. Aerial photography coupled with groundtruthing was used to map submerged aquatic vegetation.
24319405|Morphometric characteristics of raccoons from Marco Island, Collier County, Florida are presented. The raccoons were subspecies Procyon lotor marinus and data presented supplements and expands previously published information concerning this subspecies.
24312044|Students enrolled for the science methods course at FTU are provided with formal exposure to science laboratory teaching techniques and technology by service in an introductory laboratory under supervision of the faculty member in charge. This individualized, professionally directed, "hands on" experience has proven successful for teacher candidates.
24320788|FT-IR was used to allow students to analyze microscale size samples and to provide for experience and interaction with modern computer-driven instruments in a lab setting. Exercises and an instruction manual were written to help students: (a) learn the operation, construction, and theory of a FT-IR spectrometer, (b) acquire and manipulate spectra using the "Windows" based OMNIC software, and (c) follow structural changes during a slow reaction by observing changes in the IR spectrum. Because of the speed and ease of operation of the FT-IR an entire twenty-four member lab section can able to obtain the necessary spectra during the lab period.
24319933|Almost all of the 99 species of shallowwater pelecypods now living in Bermuda colonized these remote islands via a sweepstakes route provided by the Florida Current and the Gulf Stream. More than half of these species have a very wide geographic distribution, and 66, or two thirds of the species living in Bermuda, also live in Brazil. Seven of the species living in Bermuda also live in the tropical eastern Pacific. Only 2 species are endemic to Bermuda.
24320531|This paper presents a computational neural mechanism, a neural derivative, and confirms through the use of Schiller's (1982) experiments that this theoretical structure behaves in exactly the same manner as do motion detectors observed in the rhesus monkey. This strongly suggests that the neural derivative presented is a fundamental functional unit of the early visual system. These experiments indicate that the on-center off-surround architecture can operate as a neural derivative, and can thus be one of the motion detection mechanisms employed in vivo. The Veto mechanism, another motion detector, may or may not be a neural derivative, depending on the structure of its dendritic trees.
24320582|Macroinvertebrates of the northern Everglades are adapted to temporary waters with fluctuating oxygen concentrations, and periodic high (> 35.0 C) temperatures. Despite harsh conditions, the macroinvertebrate assemblage was surprisingly diverse with species richness values similar to well-oxygenated, lotic ecosystems. One hundred and forty-eight taxa of macroinvertebrates were identified from sloughs in the northern Everglades. Although the diversity and density of macroinvertebrates in sloughs were dominated by Chironomidae, Gastropoda, and Coleoptera, the amphipod Hyallella azteca was the most abundant species collected. Macroinvertebrate diversity and density was reduced in dense sawgrass. Almost all taxa, however, were well represented within man-made canals where amphipods and the freshwater shrimp Palaemonetes paludosus were extremely abundant. Trophic categories were dominated by grazers and collector-gatherers. Energy flow was equally distributed through grazer and detritivore pathways. Macroinvertebrates of the northern Everglades are characterized by common species from North America and the southeastern United States with a few colonists from Central and South America. However, two species, the most abundant snail Planorbella duryi and the mayfly Callibaetis floridanus, are endemic to the Florida peninsula.
24321738|A specimen of Lypotigris reginalis (Stoll) (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae) is reported from Vaca Key. This appears to be only the second record of this species from the Florida Keys. St. Andrew's cotton stainer, Dysdercus andreae (L.) (Hemiptera: Pyrrhocoridae), numbers on Vaca Key were greatly reduced following the Hurricane Wilma storm surge. A specimen of an undescribed louse parasite of Key deer was found being carried phoretically by a female black salt marsh mosquito.
24320748|This report provides observations of insect visitors to an infestation of sand pine (Pinus clausa) by the aphid Cinara pinivora, along with a list of collected specimens. Yellow jackets (Vespula squamosa) and other Hymenoptera were the most common visitors. Unlike many other aphid infestations, however, only one species of ant was collected (Camponotus abdominalis floridanus). Night collections consisted of over 90% male mosquitoes (Culex prob. nigripalpus). For some species, this report may constitute a rare observation of adult feeding behavior.
24321240|During the summer of 2003, an uncharacteristically high number of intense upwelling events occurred along the east central coast of Florida. A bottom-mounted temperature logger collected hourly seawater temperatures on hard-bottom habitat 0.4 km offshore of North Hutchinson Island from 29 May to 21 August 2003. During this time, six upwelling events occurred in which low temperatures ranged between 1621C. Early and late summer upwelling events averaged 12.3 and 5.3 days, respectively. A series of Pearson correlations between time series data from the logger and those of surface estimates from SeaWiFS suggest that the longer upwelling events in early summer eventually resulted in similar surface and bottom temperatures. In turn, the shorter upwelling events during late summer appear to have resulted in stronger thermoclines because of less time for mixing between surface and bottom waters. Analysis of local meteorological data suggests that wind stress was not upwelling favorable during most of the summer yet may have played a supplementary role in producing some of the upwelling events.
24320287|The Cenozoic stratigraphic record of peninsular Florida is analyzed for the amount of time each unit represents, using techniques from Schindel (1980) and Sadler (1981). Calculations based on different assumed rates of sediment deposition show that each stratigraphic unit generally represents less time and becomes more incomplete as the record becomes younger. The early Paleogene ages and epochs are the best represented in the record and probably serve as the most promising strata for the study of long-term processes. Study of short-term processes (1,000 yr or less) may be more difficult and should be carried out with care because none of the units analyzed are even near 100% completeness at finer resolutions.
24320444|Fifteen races of hydrilla [Hydrilla verticillata (L.f.) Royle], collected throughout its geographical range, were grown for 5 weeks in natural water with the pH adjusted to 5, 7 or 9. Growth varied between as well as within races in response to individual pH. The largest growth increase occurred within the pH 7 treatment. A 700 % difference occurred among races between the high and low ends of the response range. Growth response varied 5-fold between races at pH 5 and pH 9. Maximum growth of each race occurred at pH 7. Next best growth occurred at pH 5 with inhibition occurring in only 2 of 15 races. Reduced growth in 10 of 15 races at pH 9 may have been related to reduced free carbon dioxide supplies. Because growth was not completely inhibited is evidence that bicarbonate utilization mitigated the effects of limited availability of free carbon dioxide. Plants from the highly productive Queensland and Bangalore races exhibited a high tolerance for diverse pH. This indicates an ability to adapt, to colonize diverse habitats and to become more serious pests than races already established in the U.S.
24320665|This field study examined the distribution among emergent plant stems of egg clutches deposited by the amphibious Florida applesnail in four types of marsh in east central Florida. Clutch density was highest along the edge of sawgrass marsh and zero in deep marsh. Densities in maidencane and mixed shallow marshes were about one-third the density in sawgrass. In all marsh types, clutches occurred preferentially on plants having broad stems that generally exceeded 6 mm in diameter at water level. Substratum limitation for oviposition increased with the frequency of narrow-stemmed plants, but stem height was rarely limiting. The four marsh types did not differ in the protection available to clutches against variation in water level. The plant species most used for oviposition were Cladium jamaicense, Crinum americanum, Pontederia cordata, and Sagittaria lancifolia. Management of applesnail habitat should favor a heterogeneous community of broad-stemmed emergent aquatic plants at moderate density.
24320413|This report describes the permitting process in which federal, state, and local permitting agencies accepted a Rotational Impoundment Management (RIM) plan as mitigation for wetlands impacted during development of a riverfront subdivision at Indian River Impoundment #6 (Pine Island, 129.5 ha [320 ac]). Impoundment #6 was seasonally re-integrated to the Indian River lagoon through culverts installed in the dike and water levels were carefully controlled with a permanent, electric pump. Limited biological monitoring, as required by the permits, indicated that the impoundment responded positively to RIM. Operating permit flexibility allowed for modifications that monitoring and management experience indicated were necessary.
24319555|In contrast to earlier studies which examined the relationships among pacifism, religious affiliation and partisanship, a pattern was found whereby partisanship, rather than religious affiliation, dominated attitudes toward pacifism. This appears explainable in terms of the political party occupying the presidency and not religious doctrine.
24321664|Direct measurement (seepage meter) studies, as well as isotope and some modeling studies, have indicated very high rates (>0.027 m day-1) of groundwater seepage to the Indian River Lagoon (IRL). Field and lab methodology studies confirm the accuracy of the seepage meter technique, and available water level and hydrogeologic data from surrounding wells support the high seepage results in the southern and northern reaches of the IRL. The high measured seepage rates imply that groundwater loading of various pollutants to the IRL may also be high, and data from selected Mosquito Lagoon and St. Lucie Estuary OSDS sites in the watershed show high loading rates for nutrients. The importance of submarine groundwater discharge to the Indian River Lagoon must be established in order to understand the relationship between lagoon hydrology and water quality, enabling better lagoon management to occur.
24321994|Little is known about predation on the red lionfish, Pterois volitans, in invaded habitats. In this note, we report for the first time a spotted moray, Gymnothorax moringa, successfully attacking and eating a still alive, but injured (speared) adult red lionfish in San Salvador, Bahamas. We describe the consumption of the red lionfish and the response behavior of the predator. Understanding predation pressures on red lionfish in the western Atlantic Ocean is of great significance given the rapid growth of this invasive species and its potential effects on populations of coral reef fish. This important problem is exacerbated by the fact that top predators have largely been overfished in the western Atlantic, thus removing potential predators for this invasive species. Our observation suggests that the spotted moray and, by extrapolation, other morays might represent a naturally occurring top-down control agent of invasive red lionfish. Muraenids in general could play a critical role as bio-control forces because moray eel populations have been largely spared the effects of overfishing.
24320456|An in situ survival test of fishes using hypoxic impounded mangrove swamps indicated that some fishes change vertical position within the water column when compared to observations under more oxygenated conditions. These observations led us to experimentally examine changes in vertical position and activity under hypoxic conditions in juvenile snook, Centropomus undecimalis, which are indigenous to mangrove swamp habitats. These experimental data support our in situ data and indicate that juvenile snook move towards the oxygenated surface waters and decrease activity there when deeper waters are anoxic.
24320143|The food habits of the lemon shark, Negaprion brevirostris, were investigated by examining the stomach contents of juveniles between 58 and 100 cm in total length from shallow grass flats near Sandy Key in western Florida Bay, Everglades National Park, Florida. Small demersal fish, mainly Opsanus beta and Lagodon rhombodes, and the commercially important pink shrimp, Penaeus duorarum, were the most common dietary items of N. brevirostris in the coastal marine waters. Small, fast-moving pelagic fishes were also found in the shark's diet.
24320757|We examined pollination in natural populations of the rare Florida scrub endemic Dicerandra frutescens (Lamiaceae) to determine if pollinator specialization or poor pollinator service were factors in this species ' restricted range and decline. Pollinators were observed in six populations in timed watches at various times of day, on plants of different sizes, and in different conditions. The bee fly Exprosopa fasciata (Diptera: Bombyliidae) made 95% of all visits, and an average flower received about 46 bee fly visits. Plants in more open sites, plants with more flowers, and sun-lit plants received significantly more visits. Bee-flies contact anthers in the morning, while stigmas bend up to receive pollen in the afternoon. The structure of D. frutescens flowers is specialized for large insects with long tongues. A system of concealed pollen and triggered pollen release may protect pollen from smaller insects and desiccation. Pollen deposition on the undersides of visiting insects suggests fly, rather than bee pollination. Related Dicerandra species with different pollinators have structurally-different flowers. Based on the large numbers of visits and the observed movements of the bee fly, pollinator limitation appears unlikely. Furthermore, the bee fly is a common species that feeds on many plant species. Although Dicerandra frutescens is highly dependent on a single pollinator, it is unlikely that this has contributed to its rarity nor made it vulnerable to extinction. Instead, microhabitat specificity, habitat destruction, and fire-suppression are the major threats.
24319716|'Valencia' orange, Citrus sinensis (L.) Osb., accumulated sugars and cold-hardened when exposed to light and a constant 10C for 28 da. Sucrose was the primary sugar accumulated, with concentrations exceeding 60 mg/gm of leaf dry weight. Sucrose accumulation was closely correlated with the onset of frost hardening.
24319767|In this article I discuss the evolution and development of a death education program at Polk Community College, Polk County, Florida. Included is an overview of the community role involvement typical of such colleges and a working model for enhancing that involvement in any college/community setting. The social and institutional resources usually available in the environment of most colleges are listed and discussed as areas of need and as justification for the development of death education programs at community colleges.
24319679|The pKa's determined for ethyl 4-methyl-2,3,5-triketocyclopentylglyoxalate, 3-methylcyclopentane-1,2,4-trione, and 2-methylcyclopentane-1,3-dione indicate unusually high acidities. Nuclear magnetic resonance spectra were obtained.
24320015|A population of feral hogs increased to the point of causing noticeable ecological damage and was a general nuisance in the rapidly urbanizing area northeast of the University of South Florida campus in Hillsborough County. A technique was employed which effectively eliminated the wild hog population (25 adults, plus juveniles) within three months. The composition and characteristics of this semiurban population are discussed.
24320662|Basking behavior of Anolis sagrei and A. distichus was studied by examining the differences in basking patterns between males and females within and between the two species. Males and females within a species do not correlate in basking patterns which may suggest there are differences in activities between the sexes. Males of A. sagrei and A. distichus do correlate in their basking patterns while females differ. Because these species are members of the same feeding guild, male basking patterns correlate strongly. This is not true for females, probably because females need less time to bask and may partition their basking niche more closely.
24321208|The aplousohranch ascidian species Aplidium antillense (Gravier, 1955) was found growing on floating docks in Fort Pierce, Florida in the Indian River Lagoon. Previously described from several locations in the Caribbean and Bermuda, this is the first record from the continental North American coast. The description of A. antillense is augmented: it is concluded that the species can be distinguished from similar ones occurring in Florida by the number of stomach plications (1114). The present report draws attention to A. antillense and will eventually allow a more rigorous investigation of the taxonomy and biogeography of the diverse genus Aplidium.
24322274|Between July 1996 and October 2001,190 boat-based photo-identification surveys were carried out on the population of bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) in Florida's Indian River Lagoon. Survey effort varied geographically across and within study years, but was relatively high and consistent (number of surveys = 158, 83%) between 1998 and 2001 in the primary study area (PSA) between Sebastian Inlet in the north to Ft. Pierce Inlet in the south. A total of 336 dolphins were photographically identified, with 149 of these individuals found in the PSA. Evidence for short term fidelity within the IRL was derived from an analysis of 67 dolphins sighted eight or more times. The average site fidelity ratio for these more frequently sighted dolphins was 91%. Further, 57% of these dolphins were sighted in each of their five (45%) or four (12%) possible sighting years. Evidence for even longer-term site fidelity of 20 y comes from continued sightings across the five-year study period of 11 dolphins marked with freeze brands between 1979 and 1981. In the aggregate, these photo-identification data suggest that a more geographically extensive survey strategy, over a longer time scale is needed to assess important details of the population structure of IRL bottlenose dolphins.
24319732|We present the results of a study sponsored by the State of Florida to investigate the feasibility of retrofit installations of Energy Management Systems (EMS) in all State buildings. Evaluation criteria included profile of energy usage, physical suitability of facilities for installation of EMS and Life Cycle Cost (LCC) of proposed installations. The primary screening and analysis were based on economics. A candidate project was required to have LCC payback period of less than the estimated life of the facility. The LCC model incorporated projected escalation of fuel cost, inflation factors and a 6% interest rate. A sensitivity analysis was used to determine the most critical cost items in the LCC analysis. To ensure its utility, the effort provided performance specifications and cost guidelines for several categories of systems and identified specific buildings by operational department as prime candidates for EMS.
24319914|Following the April 26, 1986, accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power station, atmospheric particulate samples collected in east Orange County, Florida, were examined for evidence of radioisotopes released to the environment by the accident. Passage of the radioactive debris cloud was observed by monitoring gamma rays emitted by three isotopes that would be expected to form a substantial part of the reactor's fission by-product inventory. Activities measured would have resulted in whole-body exposures to individuals in the Central Florida population of only about 0.004 % of the yearly maximum permissible levels recommended by national and international authorities.
24319640|Surveys of Bryozoa occurring on algal substrata were carried out in the shallow subtidal and deep (30-90 m) continental shelf waters of the Florida East Coast. Twenty-eight species of bryozoans were found on 12 species of algae in the shallow subtidal. Thirty-six species of bryozoans were found on 12 species of algae at the continental shelf stations. Membranipora tuberculata and Thalamoporella gothica floridana were the most common bryozoan species in the coastal collections, and Aetea sica and Microporella ciliata in the continental shelf collections. No bryozoans were found on noncalcified Chlorophyta. The calcified Chlorophyta and the more massive species of Phaeophyta and Rhodophyta were the preferred substrata.
24320535|During the last decade, the ozone levels of both Hillsborough and Pinellas counties have significantly increased. Although each county is primarily urban and in close proximity, Hillsborough County has traditionally experienced a greater number of exceedences of the Federal standard (120 ppb). An investigation was undertaken to determine the effects meteorological elements, principally wind velocity, surface temperatures, and the seabreeze phenomenon, have on the mass transference of ozone in the region. In addition, the continual expansion of urban areas and the resultant increase of vehicular traffic were also considered. The results of this research indicate that the impending ozone crisis is a regional rather than an individual county problem.
24320242|We monitored 7 shallow wells along a transect crossing all of the major habitats in the Okefenokee Swamp and measured water levels, hydroperiods, and water table gradients. Although differences in ground surface elevations between habitats are minor within the swamp, hydroperiods varied from 246-346 da during 1977-78. Extrapolation from nearby staff gauge records indicates that marsh, shrub, and cypress communities were dry for periods of a month or more during 27 of the 36 yr of record, but waterlily communities were without surface water for a month or more only during 16 yr. Water table gradients suggest that ground water flows into the swamp from the surrounding uplands except during droughts, when the flow is reversed.
24319588|The known range of snook is extended about 100 miles westward to Santa Rosa Sound.
24320174|In 1980, the Florida legislature enacted the Florida Energy Efficiency and Conservation Act in recognition of the importance energy conservation plays in solving the energy problems facing the state. The act required the Florida Public Service Commission (FPSC) to set two statewide goals: one, to reduce the growth rate of both electric energy consumption and weather-sensitive peak electric demand, and two, to reduce the level of oil consumption in electric power plants. With the passage of this act Florida became one of the first states in the nation to have a legislatively-mandated electrical energy conservation policy. After a series of public hearings at which testimony was offered by Florida utilities, the FPSC staff, and a number of state and national expert witnesses, the FPSC adopted a set of conservation goals for Florida's electric utilities. Following adoption of these goals, there has been a substantial reduction in the growth rate of electrical use in Florida and a marked reduction in oil use in power plants. More stringent goals were proposed, but the FPSC judged that a lack of Florida-specific conservation program evaluation data prevented it from adopting higher goals. This paper describes the Florida Energy Efficiency and Conservation Act (FEECA), discusses the FPSC goals and the goal-setting process, and presents the results of the first five years of the FEECA goals operation.
24319758|A nutrition survey in 4 Central Amazon villages during 19771978 revealed that 31.4% of 2069 children under 72 mo of age were moderately to severely malnourished according to Latin American standards for weight and age. Results from the survey and additional data from the author's field research indicated that the causes of malnutrition were imbedded in a complicated, interwoven mesh of social, cultural, economic and environmental factors. A preliminary analysis of these causal factors is presented.
24320566|Aspartic acid (Asp) is one of the fastest racemizing amino acids due to stabilization of the intermediate carbanion by the electron withdrawing beta carboxyl group. Aqueous solutions of free L-aspartic acid were heated at 100C for various lengths of time in the presence of dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) and without DMSO (controls). The amount of racemization increased as a function of time in both sets of samples, but to a greater extent in the presence of DMSO. Racemization also increased as the percent of DMSO in solution increased. It is postulated that the increased racemization in DMSO is due to a combination of the higher dielectric constant of DMSO and symmetrical solvation of the intermediate carbanion by DMSO, thus further stabilizing the carbanion.
24320713|Tampa Bay was accepted into the National Estuary Program in 1990. The Tampa Bay National Estuary Program (TBNEP) is a four-year program charged with development and initiation of a "Masterplan" for long-term management of Tampa Bay. Partners in TBNEP include the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Florida Department of Environmental Protection, Southwest Florida Water Management District, the counties of Hillsborough, Pinellas and Manatee, and the cities of St. Petersburg, Tampa and Clearwater. Two major elements comprise the four-year program: characterization of the bay's resources and priority problems, and development of specific management actions to address identified priority problems. The Tampa Bay NEP has completed much of the characterization work, and is well into development of management actions. A brief description of the watershed management approach currently under development and the direct link to restoration of critical habitats is presented here. The final watershed management approach will comprise a central element of the Comprehensive Masterplan for Tampa Bay, due in 1995.
24322132|The use of phytoplankton chlorophyll a to indicate eutrophication in the Caloosahatchee Estuary and San Carlos Bay was evaluated. Responses of chlorophyll a to nutrient loading and freshwater discharge at the Franklin Lock and Dam located at the head of the estuary were examined. Relationships between chlorophyll a and dissolved oxygen and light attenuation in the downstream estuary and bay were also investigated. Statistically significant positive correlations with nutrient loading in the lower estuary and San Carlos Bay, significant association between increasing chlorophyll a and decreasing dissolved oxygen in bottom waters in the estuary, and positive correlation between light attenuation and chlorophyll a in San Carlos Bay argue for the use of chlorophyll a to indicate eutrophication. Relationships between chlorophyll a and freshwater discharge indicated a flushing or 'wash out' effect. Review of the literature suggested that discharge of dark, colored water enhanced light attenuation. Both effects of discharge would suppress the accumulation of chlorophyll biomass. While chlorophyll a might be used to indicate eutrophication in the Caloosahatchee, useful interpretation of the response of this indicator to future reductions in nutrient loading must account for the modulating effects of freshwater discharge exerted through flushing and reductions in light availability.
24321899|Pseudodendromonas vlkii (Protista, Bicosoecidida), a free swimming heterotrophic protist genus sporadically reported from both marine and freshwater habitats, is reported from Florida. Isolated scales from Pseudodendromonas vlkii was observed by using TEM. The genus currently comprises three species of which only one has been reported from North America.
24320712|A model was developed that uses land-based measurements of photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) to compute instantaneous and annual average estimates of PAR in water of Tampa Bay. Model input was 255 days of 15- or 5-minute averages of incident irradiance measured at sites near Tampa Bay. Annually, 49% (380 mol m-2s-1) of the incident irradiance measured with a spherical (4  steradians) sensor is estimated to enter the water of Tampa Bay. The model can be used to predict the average depth and, with bathymetry, the areas of bay bottom that have adequate light available to support seagrass. For example, if Thalassia testudinum requires a long-term average of 20% of incident PAR for survival, the model predicted that depths of potential seagrass habitat for T. testudinum are 0.7, 1.5, 2.5, and 7.5m for water clarities corresponding to the attenuation coefficients of 1.0, 0.5, 0.3, and 0.1-1, respectively.
24320400|A review of the Florida crayfish fauna is presented as an update of Hobbs' 1942 monograph "The Crayfishes of Florida." As currently understood, this fauna includes 50 species belonging to six genera. Distributional information and recent nomenclatural changes are summarized.
24320515|Distributions of the six species of sneezeweeds (Helenium) in Florida are discussed. The first record of Helenium autumnale L. for the Florida Peninsula and Orange County is documented.
24321239|With a focus on geckos, building-dwelling amphibians and reptiles at Savannas Preserve State Park in Martin and St. Lucie counties, Florida, were intensively censused over a four month winter-spring period so as to determine the status of exotic species on 10 buildings of this rural-urban park encapsulated by suburban development. Our findings supported the hypothesis that invasion by Hemidactylus mabouia was recent, and that it was incapable of stable co-existence with its ecologically analogous congener on buildings. Our findings also underscore the rapid pace at which ecological processes can occur in non-indigenous faunal communities.
24321931|This study was conducted to determine seasonal patterns of occurrence of larval flatfish along the edge of the Gulf Stream off the coast of Florida. Although flatfish are commercially harvested, their spawning seasons, larval biology, and the role of larval transport in maintaining populations are poorly known. Larval flatfish are primarily pelagic and have the potential to be transported by the Gulf Stream, which would reduce recruitment in southern habitats and possibly increase recruitment in northern regions. Bimonthly plankton sampling across the edge of the Gulf Stream in 2007 provided data on 13 species of flatfish. For the three most abundant flatfish species, Bothus ocellatus, Citharichthys cornutus, and Syacium papillosum, larvae were present throughout the year, with peak densities of all three species occurring in the summer months. Throughout the sampling period the highest overall densities were represented by B. ocellatus. Data regarding size, seasonality, and location along the transect provided additional evidence for spawning periodicity and transport of the flatfish species.
24321141|Competition between Neotoma floridana, Key Largo cotton mouse, and Peromyscus gossypinus, Key Largo woodrat, was investigated in tropical hardwood hammocks of Key Largo, Florida. A dynamic regression technique using time series data was used to determine if intraand interspecific competition was occurring. Intraspecific competition was found in both species. P. gossypinus had a competitive effect on N. floridana, but there was no competitive effect of N. floridana on P. gossypinus.
24321665|An increase in deposition of fine-grained, organic-rich sediment and a decline in seagrass abundance in the Indian River Lagoon System (IRL), Florida, are linked to increased inputs of total suspended solids (TSS). To learn more about the composition and sources of TSS in the IRL, samples were collected during fall 2003, spring 2004 and summer 2004 in the following areas: (1) southern Mosquito Lagoon, (2) IRL near Turnbull Creek, (3) Banana River Lagoon, (4) IRL near Turkey Creek and (5) IRL in Vero Beach. Concentrations of TSS ranged from 1.925.0 mg/L and correlated well (r = 0.95) with values for turbidity. Using selected chemical data, the average TSS in this study of the IRL were categorized as follows: (1) 18% terrestrial organic matter, (2) 30% organic matter produced in the lagoon, (3) 34% aluminosilicates/clays and (4) 18% other inorganic matter. Distinct differences in abundance, composition and likely sources of TSS were found geographically. These differences can be used to help guide decisions regarding management of TSS and to help better understand local variations in sedimentation patterns and seagrass abundance in the IRL.
24320650|Patterns of historic native vegetation and vascular flora of the urbanized barrier island of Key Biscayne are reviewed from 19th and 20th century documents. A recently discovered tropical hardwood hammock is inventoried.
24320146|A new subspecies of the skipper Synapte malitiosa is described, based on a series of 60 specimens from Hispaniola, West Indies.
24320435|We studied seasonal water relations in three scrub oak species on the southern Lake Wales Ridge during 1989. Xylem water potential and soil-water content were used to characterize site and species differences in moisture status. Plants in scrubby flatwoods had the lowest water potential, especially during times of more severe drought. On sandhill sites, moisture status was most favorable. Site differences in predawn xylem potential were not correlated with site differences in distance to water table or site differences in surface (0-40 cm) soil moisture. Quercus chapmanii had more negative water potentials than the other oaks studied. These results suggest site and species difference in water relations and the potential for different drought adaptations among the oak species.
24320112|Biscayne Bay is a semi-tropical lagoon adjacent to Miami, Florida. Tides are semi-diurnal and vary from about 2.5 ft amplitude at inlets to 0.5 ft in the interior basins. Nutrients are available in northern sections but relatively scarce in the southern bay. Primary productivity in the south is mainly from seagrasses and algae, while in the north phytoplankton is more important. Diverse invertebrate and fish populations occur, but few species are extremely abundant. Activities such as dredge and fill, sewage pollution, causeway construction and shoreline modifications have altered circulation and nutrient cycles. The greatest impact has been observed near Miami but changes are occurring in the southern regions as well. Hopeftdly, informed and active citizens and the Dade County, State and Federal governments will continue efforts such as creation of the Biscayne National Monument and the Florida Power and Light Cooling Reservoir to protect Biscayne Bay and to provide public access for recreation. Planning is needed now, and action must be taken, before options run out and cost escalates to the point where conservation and restoration is economically impossible.
24320126|Aerial photography (1944-1981), field studies (1976-1983), survey records (1855-1920), and timber cruise reports (1921-1922) provided information on past and present southern Lake Wales Ridge vegetation at eight study sites which each included mesic and xeric vegetation associations. Three findings were linked to reduced fire frequencies: 1) expansion of mesic broad-leaved evergreen bayhead vegetation into adjacent flatwoods and some seasonal ponds, 2) substantial slash pine regeneration in flatwoods, and 3) increased growth of scrub oaks and hickory in xeric sandhills accompanied by low slash and longleaf pine regeneration. Other xeric associations (i.e., scrubby flatwoods and sand pine and rosemary scrubs) remained relatively stable with only one possible instance of sand pine loss due to a prolonged absence of fire. However, repeated burns were responsible for losses of sand pine at two other sites. Successional changes in swales and most seasonal ponds were minor and appeared to be controlled more by water levels than fire.
24319950|The distribution of Geochelone carbonaria in the West Indies is reviewed and both published records and new collections are cited. Four hypotheses for its distribution are discussed: (1) natural dispersal, (2) introduction by prehistoric indians, (3) introduction by early European settlers, and (4) recent introduction as pets. None of these can be irrefutably supported by the distributional data, and the present distribution may be the result of a combination of dispersal modes.
24320402|Fishes were collected from six locations along the freshwater portion of the Peace River from 1983 through 1988. Analysis of fish community characteristics such as species richness, diversity, abundance, biomass and species composition indicated the fish community of the Peace River has been significantly impacted by human activities. Degraded water quality and invasion of exotic fishes have altered species composition, diversity and fish production. Effluent from headwater lakes and streams increased turbidity and biological oxygen demand in the upper 35-km section of the river that was dominated by pollution-tolerant fishes. Dilution from tributaries exhibiting higher water quality improved biotic conditions downstream as evidenced by higher species diversity and more complex fish community structure. Tidal influence on the lower 35-km portion of the river reduced flushing and stressed conditions were indicated by lower species richness and diversity. Fish community structure at the lower river was dominated by large piscivores and omnivores.
24322281|Although the number of non-native herpetofaunal species in Florida has increased rapidly over the last few decades, no exotic amphibian or reptile species has yet been documented to exhibit a range-wide decline since its introduction. In this paper, I document the likely modes of introduction, geographic distribution, and present ecological status of the yellow-headed gecko, Gonatodes albogularis, in Florida. Gonatodes albogularis was first found in Florida from Opa-Locka, Miami-Dade County, in 1934, but was likely transferred from Key West, Monroe County, where the species was originally introduced and first documented in 1939. This species was also likely transported from Key West to other sites in southern Florida. The last known preserved specimen was collected in 1989 and last field observation occurred in 1995, both on Key West. Additional field surveys from December 1995 through December 2004 throughout the Florida Keys and southern peninsula yielded zero observations of this species, suggesting that it has undergone population declines or local extirpation. This is the first exotic herpetofaunal species in Florida that has been documented exhibiting a range-wide decline since its establishment.
24320763|Cattails, Typha domingensis, can be a nuisance because of their notable growth in natural waters in Florida. Previous research has indicated that these materials produce substances that are allelopathic, and two chemicals identified in the aqueous extract were 2-chlorophenol and salicylaldehyde. The present study examines sediment samples in a pond infested with cattails, and using gas chromatography the two allelopathic compounds were detected in sediments near, but not 2 m from, T. domingensis.
24319406|Students enrolled in a drug abuse education course at FTU were questioned about drug use habits. Three drugsalcohol, tobacco, and marijuanawere the only drugs on the survey list that were used by a relatively large percentage of those surveyed.
24320132|Inter-regional shipment of foods has generally been expected to erase geographical differences in mineral nutrients in the food chain. Gradually, iodine supply and then selenium (Se) have been recognized to vary geographically, with corresponding effects of deficiencies in livestock and human beings in different countries, states, and counties through epidemiological research. Such a study is reported herein for the 67 counties of Florida for the leading causes of death, namely, heart failure and stomach and colorectal cancer. The 1979-1982 average variations between counties in age-adjusted heart death rates range more than 4-fold (155 to 639/100,000/y in Alachua and Pinellas counties, respectively). Corresponding variations for 1979-1981 for deaths from stomach and colorectal cancer range over 13-fold (14 to 189/100,000/y for Columbia and Pinellas counties, respectively). A positive correlation (r = 0.73; p < 0.001) occurs between the two causes of death in the various counties (even though basically "competitive"). This correlation suggests the involvement of land factors (soils, water, crops) causing the deaths may vary in a somewhat common pattern. The counties with lower rates occur where soil clay content, less porous limestone and topography hold back drainage water bearing Se and other trace elements originating from the sea through rainfall. In contrast, those counties with high death rates have more porous limestone and sandy quartzose bedrocks and soils low in clay with topography favorable to free leaching of groundwater to the sea under the high rainfall of Florida. Mean blood Se (n = 10) in Jacksonville, FL is 188 ng/ml which is intermediate among 22 urban centers of 22 states, ranging from 120 to 265 ng/ml. Other countries with 270 to 290 ng/ml of blood Se have about one-fifth the digestive system cancer rates. There is an urgent need for more blood Se and other trace element analyses for individuals in various localities in Florida, with a view to potential need for supplementation.
24321925|A citizen science project was developed to encourage homeowners and others to build and monitor artificial nesting habitats for solitary bees and wasps. Social media applications were used to recruit participants and provide forums for social discussion and participation. Between April 2012 and July 2014, 268 individuals and 19 groups registered for the Native Buzz project at www.ufnativebuzz.com for a total combined membership of 655 participants. Participants were located in 30 counties in Florida as well as 38 other states and 10 additional countries. Participants had designed, built and monitored 68 artificial nest sites by July 2014. During the two-year study period, the sites collectively contained over 10,657 potential nests constructed from a variety of materials and established within a variety of ecosystems. Comments solicited from participants were used to identify future needs, motivating factors and challenges associated with implementing an "insect-oriented" citizen science project. Results of this study indicate that technology-based citizen science projects of this type can effectively recruit non-scientist citizens to create artificial nesting habitats for solitary bees and wasps and provide a useful platform for helping entomological researchers collect solitary bee and wasp nesting data from a large geographic range via data provided by volunteer citizen scientists.
24321185|Fire intensity variation has the potential to affect vegetation dynamics in Florida ecosystems, but this has been little studied. In a south-central Florida pine flatwoods, we manipulated fuel loads before a prescribed fire. We then monitored maximum temperatures in the soil during the burn and characterized shrub stem dynamics before and periodically postfire for four years. Added fuel biomass exceeded the biomass of naturally occurring fuels, which varied significantly among sites. The addition of fuel significantly elevated maximum soil temperatures during the burn. All 12 shrub species found prefire persisted in our plots, and nine new shrub species appeared postfire but remained uncommon in our plots. Fuel additions did not affect the plot-level shrub species richness, overall shrub stem density, or species' stem densities. Richness initially decreased following the fire, then rapidly increased to prefire levels and remained fairly constant for four years. Overall shrub stem density increased from one to nine months after the fire, and subsequently stabilized. Quercus minima and Ximenia americana increased rapidly in stem numbers postfire and Helianthemum nashii showed a delayed increase. Other species such as the two palmettos (Serenoa repens and Sabal etonia) were fairly stable. Our results emphasize that only very intense fires should be expected to markedly alter the stability of postfire responses of pine flatwoods.
24320374|Water quality investigations were conducted to assess the treatment potential (concentration reduction) of a dual-component wet detention/filtration-berm stormwater management system, located in Kissimmee, Florida. Phosphorus concentrations are indicative of nonpoint source pollution in urban and commercial stormwater runoff. Therefore, orthophosphorus and total phosphorus concentrations were monitored at three different sampling stations within the system: 1) surface runoff influent channel; 2) wet detention basin standing pool; and 3) filtration-berm effluent collection box. Routine monthly data were collected to characterize prevalent ambient conditions. In addition, six distinct storm events were monitored with automatic samplers to characterize episodic phosphorus variations during the period November, 1985 to November, 1986. Statistical analyses (t-test) of routine monthly concentration data showed significant differences (p  0.05) between the stormwater influent and the wet detention basin standing pool samples for both orthophosphorus and total phosphorus. However, similar analyses between detention basin standing pool and filtration-berm effluent samples showed no significant differences. These results suggest positive treatment potential attained through wet detention, but significant additional treatment was not realized through berm filtration. Storm event results reinforced these conclusions, indicating wet detention treatment potential far superior to filtration-berm treatment potential. The average storm event treatment potential realized by wet detention during six events for orthophosphorus and total phosphorus was 77%. The average treatment potentials realized by filtration for orthophosphorus and total phosphorus were -91% and 16%, respectively. The average treatment potentials realized by the overall combined system for orthophosphorus and total phosphorus were 55% and 85%, respectively.
24319599|Ruellia caroliniensis is a common species in eastern United States; R. geminiflora is a widespread species in the Caribbean basin. Although the two species are very similar morphologically, they are completely allopatric. Artificial F1 hybrids were produced involving the two species, and the hybrids were vigorous, semi-fertile, and morphologically intermediate between the parental species. The genetic, evolutionary and taxonomic implications of this hybrid are discussed as it bears on the taxonomy of the genus.
24320137|Burmannia flava Mart. has been found for a third time in Southwestern Florida.
24312037|Feeding behaviors of juvenile cornetfish, Fistularia tabacaria and southern stargazer, Astroscopus y-graecum were observed in aquaria. Both species stalk their prey and usually attempt head-on strikes. Strikes were attempted from 10 above or below the horizontal by the cornetfish and within a 0-30 range above the horizontal by the southern stargazer.
24320518|A 90 by 10 m transect was established through Castellow Hammock in Dade County, Florida. All woody stems greater than 2 cm DBH were measured, identified and mapped. Average basal area, frequency and density data were compared with values from the same hammock obtained in 1940 and 1965. The data suggest some species are in decline, particularly Bursera simaruba, Coccoloba diversifolia, Lysiloma bahamensis, and Mastichodendron foetidissimum. Other species, most notably Exothea paniculata, Nectandra coriacea, Prunus myrtifolia and Simarouba glauca appear to have stable populations in the hammock.
24319722|Myrmekiaphila fluviatilus oviposited in late July and early August. Contraction began 4-5 da after oviposition. At day 10, the primitive cumulus migrated from the primitive plate to the edge of the germ disc. Gastrulation conformed closely with that of other ctenizids. Appendages became visible by day 12, but there was no development of a postabdomen, a condition unusual for a ctenizid. Hatching, which occurred 20-21 da following oviposition, was sometimes delayed while the spiderlings continued to develop within the chorion. This delay is noteworthy considering past attempts at categorizing spiders on developmental stages at hatching.
24319540|The population of the primitive platyasteroid starfish, Luidia clathrata (Say) in Tampa Bay differs from those found in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico in lacking regenerating arms, having a better nutritional condition as indicated by higher caecal indices, and having a greater reproductive capacity as indicated by higher gonadal indices. The lack of regenerating arms probably is a result of lower energy water in the bay; the better nutritional condition and reproductive capacity undoubtedly reflects the better food supplies in the bay. For open waters to have localities of equal suitability would require a water depth sufficient to reduce surface water energy and to increase the amount of appropriate infaunal food.
24321909|The round-tailed muskrat (Neofiber alleni) is a nocturnal rodent restricted to Florida and southeastern Georgia and is dependent on wetlands for survival. The status of Everglades round-tailed muskrat populations is unknown; however, they are known to occur at the Arthur R. Marshall Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge (LNWR). Walking transects and aerial surveys have been used to survey the species at other locations but are not feasible in LNWR. We conducted preliminary surveys by airboat and collected data on house location and habitat characteristics that can be used to develop specific protocols for addressing questions about round-tailed muskrat site occupancy and responses to environmental change. Methods developed in LNWR are applicable to other large wetland areas of the Everglades.
24320317|The abundance and distribution of A. hydrophila were measured in 25 lakes in the Central and North-Central Florida area. Verification of isolated A. hydrophila colonies was done using the Aeromonas hydrophila (AH) medium. Density of A. hydrophila ranged from 3-12,000 org/100 ml and appeared to increase as the trophic status of the lake changed from oligotrophic to eutrophic. However, no statistical correlation between trophic status and A. hydrophila density was attempted. Lake temperature and pH had no apparent effect on the recovery of A. hydrophila from Florida lakes.
24321405|Zamia pumila (Zamiaceae, Cycadales), a native cycad of Florida, is associated with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) in its non-coralloid (feeder) roots. Seedlings were grown in pots with native sandy soil, which had available phosphorus (P) equal to ca. 10 mg kg-1 soil (or soil solution P = 0.002 mg L-1). Treatments had additions of AMF or inorganic P in the form of KH2PO4. After 66 weeks, plants with either AMF alone or additional P (at 10 and 20 mg kg-1) had greater dry mass than controls but were not significantly different from each other (at P = 0.01). This study indicates that Zamia is not dependent on AMF for P acquisition at higher soil P levels, however, AMF promoted higher P accumulation in Zamia plants than non-mycorrhizal plants. Zamia also forms specialized coralloid roots that contain symbiotic N2-fixing Nostoc, a cyanobacterium. Dry mass of coralloid roots was enhanced by AMF. We suggest that a tripartite symbiotic relationship between AMF, Nostoc and Zamia is important in the low P ecosystem of South Florida and may be functionally similar to the AMF, rhizobium, and legume symbiosis.
24321049|The Predator Satiation Hypothesis posits that synchronous masting of fruits or nuts will maximize the probability of satiating local seed predators, allowing some seeds to escape predation and germinate. Although the hypothesis is usually applied at the population level to explain synchronous reproduction of many individuals, it also might apply at the individual level. In fact, if individual trees were able to satiate local predators, it would reduce selection for synchronous reproduction at the population level. We tested whether individual laurel oaks, Quercus hemisphaerica, could satiate their acorn predators. We simulated mast conditions by adding many acorns under the canopies of some trees, while adding few to other, non-mast trees. We then monitored the rate of acorn removal from both mast and non-mast trees. We predicted that non-mast trees would have a higher rate of acorn removal because they would not be able to satiate the major seed predator at our study site, the gray squirrel, Sciurus carolinensis. The results did not support our prediction; we found no difference in the removal rate of acorns from mast and non-mast trees. This may be attributable to two characteristics of our study site: the unusually high density of gray squirrels during the year of our study, and the size of Q. hemisphaerica trees at the site, which may have been too small to produce enough acorns to satiate such a large number of seed predators. We conclude that the Predator Satiation Hypothesis is most likely to find support at the level of a population, not at the level of individual trees. Predator satiation appears to be a population level phenomenon, with benefits to individual trees.
24319703|Fifty-five species of marine algae are newly reported from Puerto Rico. This number brings to about 360, the total algal flora known for Puerto Rico.
24319575|"Toxotoxin" produced in Yale Swiss mice by intraperitoneal infection with the Rh strain of Toxoplasma gondii was subjected to mild purification methods. These methods included: ammonium sulfate fractionation, Sephadex molecular sieve chromatography, and differential ultracentrifugation. A sequential procedure was used employing ammonium sulfate fractionated crude "Toxotoxin" (20-40%) which was centrifuged at 150,000  g for 90 min. The pelleted toxic fraction was chromatographed on Sephadex G 200. This three-step sequential procedure resulted in a toxic fraction which contained 6 of the original 14 components found in the crude toxin. Our data confirm the high molecular weight of "Toxotoxin." Evidence was obtained which indicates that "Toxotoxin" is composed of aggregate subunits.
24319591|The freshwater fish fauna is composed of 108 species in 34 families. Only 29% of the fauna belong to obligatory freshwater families. The Cyprino dontidae and Poeciliidae represent 19% of the native fauna. Eleven exotic species are established. The distribution and habitat of each species are described.
24320145|Study of long series of C. hysius hysius and C. hysius batesi from the north and south islands of Hispaniola demonstrates that the two taxa are more properly regarded as distinct species, C. hysius and C. batesi. The separation is reinforced by chromatic, morphological, and genitalic differences. A short series of large C. hysius-like specimens from the north island is named as a new species.
24322340|Plants of fire-prone environments lose an appreciable amount of their resources each time their above-ground organs are consumed by fire. In order to re-establish their stored reserves before the next fire episode, plants of fire-prone environments should quickly restore their leaf canopies. We measured leaf traits annually for up to 16 years for marked individuals of two palmettos: the widespread native Serenoa repens and narrow endemic Sabal etonia, growing in nutrient-poor, seasonally xeric, and fire-prone uplands associations of peninsular Florida. Both palmettos quickly recovered their canopies via rapid leaf production following fire. Because of their extended leaf life spans (2 to 3.5 years), canopies of burned palmettos contained elevated numbers of leaves during the period following fire, which should facilitate recovery of stored reserves.
24321379|From collections of specimens and field observations, we studied breeding, activity, and growth of the Cane Toad (Bufo marinus) from a site in Lake Placid in south-central Florida. Although fertility was continuous in both sexes, calling (FebruarySeptember 1993) and egglaying (apparently spring-summer) was seasonal. Both were in the range previously described for northern and southern populations in Florida. Activity was severely curtailed but not entirely absent during DecemberFebruary and most activity occurred at night. Typical of other Florida populations, adult males were smaller in body size than adult females, sexual maturity in both sexes was achieved at similarly small body sizes, and both sexes were sexually mature at about one year after metamorphosis. The physical structure of the habitat provided in effect an island suitable for B. marinus, surrounded by what was otherwise an ocean of uninhabitable sandy upland habitat. Thus, within the range of life history responses by B. marinus noted elsewhere in Florida, this population was afforded human-mediated conditions acceptable for colonization with responses in reproduction and activity more like those of other populations in extreme southern Florida than those in central Florida.
24320312|Turkey Creek, in Palm Bay, Brevard County, Florida, was the site of a manatee study from May 1978-1979 which investigated manatee distribution, abundance and use of the area. Manatees were present during most of the year; however, in winter a change in local distribution occurred which was apparently associated with a decrease in ambient temperatures. Boat inflicted scars, barnacle and algal growths and morphological markings like tail fluke notches and skin blemishes facilitated recognition of individual animals. Increased development and recreational use posed the most obvious threats to manatees in Turkey Creek.
24321466|Challenges associated with species identification, live collection and laboratory maintenance of billfish larvae have hindered research on their physiology and behavior. In the present study, short-duration neuston net tows in the Straits of Florida yielded 19 live istiophorid billfish larvae, which were immediately placed in a shipboard vertical swimming chamber to measure their vertical movement rates. After swimming trials, larvae were transferred to the laboratory where they were identified to species, classified as to flexion stage and measured for length. Mean vertical swimming speeds of captive larval sailfish (Istiophorus platypterus) and blue marlin (Makaira nigricans) ranged from 1.0 to 7.0 cm s-1 or 1.6 to 5.6 body lengths s-1. These rates exceed most larval fish sinking rates reported for other species and are comparable to mean larval "cruising" speeds reported for several temperate freshwater and marine fishes; however, they appear far lower than most swimming speed estimates for reef fish larvae.
24320971|Between 1936 and 1995, Florida's population grew from 1.7 million to 14.1 million residents. Over this period, forests declined 22%, herbaceous wetlands declined 51%, agricultural lands increased 60%, and urban lands increased 632%. However, since 1980, herbaceous wetlands have been increasing, and agricultural lands have been decreasing. In 1936, pine forests dominated forest lands, longleaf pine was the most abundant tree, 37% of forests were in sawtimber, and 14% of forest land was clearcut. By 1949, extensive logging of longleaf and old-growth pines left 51% of the state's forest land in a nonstocked condition, and sawtimber comprised only 17% of the forest. By 1995, longleaf pine forests had declined by 90%, slash pines were the most dominant tree, only 3% of forest lands were nonstocked, and pine plantations accounted for 32% of all forests. Based on observed trends, pond pine and scrub oak forests could become scarce on privately-owned commercial forest lands by 2010, longleaf pine forests could become rare on privately-owned commercial forest lands by 2019, and natural pine forests could disappear from all commercial forest lands by 2021.
24321086|The D-ribose high-affinity transport Operon (RbsDACBKR) of Escherichia coli encodes the proteins necessary for high-affinity transport and utilization of D-ribose. RbsD is a 15 IcDa protein with an amino terminus which resembles the proteolytically cleaved signal sequences of periplasmic and outer membrane proteins. N-terminal sequencing of the purified protein revealed that the protein does not contain a cleavable signal sequence and is therefore not likely to be an outer membrane receptor. Characterization of a Rbs operon mutant at the RbsD site reveals that D-ribose high-affinity transport does not require RbsD.
24321096|We studied bird habitat affinity and abundance in the Everglades Agricultural Area (EAA). The EAA is comprised of approximately 280,000 ha of lands dedicated primarily to sugarcane. Rice is grown on less than 10% of the area. We completed four years of study in rice fields and two years of surveys in sugarcane fields between 1998 and 2004. We observed 138 species with individuals being more abundant in rice fields. Twenty species were observed breeding in the area and 22 other species were potentially breeding. We saw all species of wading birds that occur regularly in south Florida, nearly all species of raptors and many bird species of open habitats. Waterbirds in general were the best represented group and these included three species of breeding ducks. Sugarcane fields and associated edge habitat supported a number of upland and other birds. Forest and woodland birds were poorly represented in the EAA due to the sparse distribution of trees. Because of its size and the nature of agriculture in the EAA, a large and diverse group of birds use this habitat for dispersal, migratory and breeding habitat.
24321440|In June 2005, a large fresh-water marsh in Cameron Parish, Louisiana was inventoried for aquatic vascular plant species. In September 2005, Hurricane Rita made landfall in Cameron Parish, Louisiana as a category 3 storm. Scouring and high salinity levels from the storm surge extirpated most of aquatic plants in the marsh. Subsequent to the passage of Rita, the marsh was periodically surveyed to determine the succession of aquatic plant species. Additionally, salinity data were collected at designated sites in the marsh. The return of aquatic plants to the marsh was protracted. Our data suggests that this slow rate of succession was due to a lengthy period of elevated salinity levels toxic to fresh-water plants. We speculate that this protracted period of elevated salinity was due to an ancient geologic shoreline barrier, called Little Chenier, which impedes the flushing of salt from of the marsh. In September 2009, the marsh was inundated by a storm surge from Hurricane Ike. Once again, most plants in the marsh were extirpated. Therefore, the succession period for this particular cycle spanned three years.
24321481|Dioecious and large-fruited trees have been hypothesized to be vulnerable to local extinction in successively smaller and more isolated forest fragments, however, few studies have examined patterns of sexual systems and fruit types in multiple tropical forest fragments. I examined sexual systems and fruit types in 17 fragments of tropical dry forest in South Florida along with tree density from belt transects (500 m2) in each fragment. Of the 65 native tropical dry forest trees identified in South Florida, hermaphroditic species were the most common sexual system with 38 species (58%) followed by 18 dioecious species (28%) and 9 monoecious species (14%). Zoochory was the predominant dispersal type with 59 species (91%) while the sub-category of large-fruited trees (fruit size  2 cm) accounted for 9 species (15%) and anemochory and autochory were relatively rare with 3 species (5%) each. Tropical dry forest fragments in South Florida have a remarkably similar proportion of sexual systems and fruit types even though species richness and floristic composition varied among fragments. There is little evidence that dioecious or large-fruited trees are vulnerable to local extinction in successively smaller and more isolated fragments in the tropical dry forest region of Florida or within mainland and island fragments.
24321533|Drymarchon couperi (Eastern Indigo Snake), a federally threatened species of the southeastern Coastal Plain, has presented challenges for surveyors, with few reliable methods developed for its detection or monitoring. Surveys for D. couperi at potential underground shelters conducted in late fall through early spring have been relatively successful when performed by experienced surveyors, especially in the northern portions of the range. However, trapping efforts for D. couperi conducted throughout the range have met with limited success. To further evaluate detection methods, we completed trapping and surveying from December 2002 to April 2004 in areas known to support D. couperi in southeastern Georgia. We captured 18 D. couperi through surveys of potential underground shelters from December 2002 to March 2003 (14 person-hours per capture) and six individuals through trapping (141 trap days or 27 in-field person-hours per capture). Trapping was most successful during early fall, a period when surveys are often less effective compared to those conducted in late fall through early spring. We recommend a combination of surveys from mid-fall through March in conjunction with trapping, especially from late-summer through fall in the northern portions of the snake's range. We also recommend further experimentation with alternative trap designs and survey methods for D. couperi.
24319866|A captive Florida mouse, Peromyscus floridanus, lived 7 years, 4 months, and 2 days. This individual was captured at an estimated age of 3 weeks. This is the longest life span reported for this species.
24320705|Elasmobranchs use a variety of adaptations to enhance buoyancy including reduced tissue density and large, lipid rich livers. We examined the hypothesis that free swimming rays (Aetobatus narinari, Rhinoptera bonasus) show larger hepato-somatic indices and lower body density than demersal species (Urolophus jamaicensis, Dasyatis americana, Himantura schmardae, Rhinobatus lentiginosus). Hepato-somatic indices were: U. jamaicensis (n = 16) 3.40  0.31 (Mean  SE); D. americana (18) 2.57  0.31; H. schmardae (2) 4.03  0.08; R. lentiginosus (1) 1.18; A. narinari (1) 4.18; R. bonasus (8) 5.31  0.26. Hepato-somatic indices for R. bonasus were significantly higher than U. jamaicensis or D. americana (P < 0.001). Water weight/air weight ratios for eviscerated animals were higher for U. jamaicensis (3.50  0.21) than R. bonasus (1.45  0.60) (P < 0.05). However, comparison of U. jamaicensis and R. bonasus indicate that their whole body water/air weight ratios are similar (U. jamaicensis 3.16  0.25; R. bonasus 3.63  0.60) (P > 0.05). Why higher hepato-somatic indices and lower body densities were not correlated with a lower total body density in R. bonasus than U. jamaicensis is not clear. However, our results do support the conclusion of others that body density is correlated with lifestyle in many elasmobranchs.
24321173|Using laser diffraction, we measured the aggregation of humic acid (HA) and the impact various chemical conditions (pH, ionic strength, lanthanides, transition metals, anions, etc.) have on the average size of HA and found that large aggregates persist over a range of conditions. Second, we examined the kinetics of aggregation and precipitation over forty days and found a critical size is reached before precipitation occurs.
24319632|Review of the widely scattered literature on the Fiji and immediately related islands provides basic ecological information and catalogs 306 species and varieties of mosses in 106 genera and 39 families. Citation of collection localities creates baseline data for future studies.
24321054|This inventory of the fishes of Everglades National Park summarizes the ichthyological and fisheries investigations that have provided information on the composition and distribution of the park's marine, brackish and freshwater fish faunas. Descriptions of the major aquatic habitats of the park provide a context for the subsequent complete inventory for the area. South Florida is a region in which members of the Antillean and Carolinian fish faunas meet and mix, giving rise to a diverse assemblage of fishes. Two hundred and ninety species of fishes have been recorded from the park, the majority of which occur both in North American and tropical West Atlantic waters. All of the native freshwater fishes in the park are derived from temperate North America; conversely, the seven established non-indigenous fish species originated in tropical waters. The table of species includes abundance and habitat use information. Species that are of hypothetical or questionable occurrence are also noted.
24321428|Non-native plants at Archbold Biological Station were mapped using GPS and their invasiveness was evaluated using the Alien Plant Ranking Software program. Twenty of sixty-five non-native plants scored greater than 75 points and were classified as invasive. Forty five percent (n = 9) of these plants are listed as Category I plants (highly invasive) by the Florida Exotic Pest Plant Council (FLEPPC), while twenty percent (n = 4) are listed as Category II plants (potentially highly invasive). Thirty-five percent (n = 7) of the plants are not listed as invasive by the FLEPPC. The ten highest-ranking plants were torpedograss (Panicum repens), cogongrass (Imperata cylindrica), Old World climbing fern (Lygodium microphyllum), lantana (Lantana camara), rose natalgrass (Rhynchelytrum repens), rosary pea (Abrus precatorius), Brazilian pepper (Schinus terebinthifolius), air-potato (Dioscorea bulbifera), paragrass (Urochloa mutica), and smutgrass (Sporobolus indicus). The majority of non-native plant locations were associated with highly disturbed sites, but some species such as Old World climbing fern, torpedograss, cogongrass, lantana, natalgrass, rosary pea, flamevine (Pyrostegia venusta), and Madagascar periwinkle (Catharanthus roseus) exhibited signs of invading undisturbed habitat. Soil disturbance was the primary factor associated with the majority of the locations documented for non-native plants. Prescribed fire does not appear to promote the invasion of non-native plants into natural communities unless there has previously been some type of soil disturbance.
24320727|The sea urchin Lytechinus variegatus Lamarck is a common inhabitant of the seagrass meadows of South Florida and the Caribbean. Two sites along the northern coast of Key Biscayne were chosen. Four field collections (December 1989, June 1990, July 1991, and December 1992) were completed from a meadow near the Crandon Marina, and three field collections were completed from a meadow in the Bear Cut Channel (June 1990, July 1991, and October 1992). These revealed significant differences in mean urchin densities (roughly 1 urchin/m2 in Crandon vs. roughly 0.3 urchin/m2 in Bear Cut). Roughly 65% of the Crandon site area was covered by Thalassia testudinum (turtle grass) alone, and roughly 25% of the area was covered by a mixture of T. testudinum and Halodule wrightii (shoal grass). Roughly 5% of the site was covered by H. wrightii alone, and roughly 5% of the site lacked seagrass. Roughly 75% of the Bear Cut site area was covered with a mixture of T. testudinum and Syringodium filiformes (manatee grass); roughly 15% was covered with a mixture of all three seagrasses. Fewer than half of the urchins at either site were feeding at the moment of capture; of those feeding, most were eating decayed pieces of T. testudinum. Urchins at both sites tended toward random dispersions within the meadows. The 1992 collections were made after Hurricane Andrew; remarkably little change was found in urchin and seagrass populations despite the fact that the sites took a nearly direct-hit from the storm. (Funded partially by NIGMSMARC Grant, Barry University).
24321080|Two large mosquito impoundments in the northern Indian River Lagoon, Florida were monitored before and after reconnection to the estuary with culverts and installation of pumps. Studies on hydrography, fish and wood stork (Mycteria americana) utilization were completed. After reconnection, the cells were managed differently, with management in one cell designed to enhance fish populations and attract wood storks. Following culvert and pump installation, salinities were significantly higher in both cells, and replication of estuary water levels was achieved during culvert "open" periods. Ten species of fish were collected prior to culvert reconnection and 12 after reconnection. There was no difference between total number or density of fishes before or after reconnection, and total number and density of fishes was greater in the modified RIM cell than in the RIM cell during one year only. Wood storks were not attracted by the winter-spring pump-up. This study demonstrates that even very large mosquito impoundments located far from tidal influences can be managed for multiple purposes with the installation of sufficient culverts and/or pumps, but the "target" species for management may not respond over short time scales.
24319533|Laurencia brongniartii J. Ag. is newly reported for Florida and for only the second time from the West Indian region. The type specimen came from Martinique hut all other records have been from the Indo-Pacific until this discovery of drift material on the southeast coast of Florida. It is apparently a deep water alga whose Florida habitat is uncertain, but probably from a reef between the ocean beach and the edge of the continental shelf off the southeast coast of Florida.
24319815|Compass orientation, vertical distribution and numerical distribution upon host species were determined for Tillandsia flexuosa Swartz and T. pruinosa Swartz. T. flexuosa was more abundant on E- and W-facing sides of its hosts. T. pruinosa was found more frequently in the E-facing microhabitat. Both species were found in the subcanopy. The most striking difference between the 2 species, with respect to spatial distribution, is their numerical distribution upon hosts.
24319721|Field and herbarium studies of the parasitic plants of the genus Cuscuta have been made in Florida. Keys, taxonomy and illustrations are given for 9 species.
24319494|Of the more than 1.2 million living animal species, only about 100,000, or 8%, are likely to be preserved as fossils.
24319471|Trapping of mosquitoes during the May-October breeding season revealed that flight patterns of mosquitoes had strong correlation with RH 90 percent or more during evening twilight. In Florida the likelihood of high nighttime RH varies seasonally and geographically, but these differences are obscured when only mean RH values are considered. Humidity may be more important than temperature as a flight factor in tropical and subtropical areas, and could cause geographic differences in the flight behavior of the same insect.
24312035|The digenetic trematode, Ochetosoma kansense (Crow, 1913), is reported from a West Indian racer, Alsophis vudii Cope, from South Bimini Island, Bahamas; apparently the second record for the parasite family from the West Indies. The snail, Physa cubense, and the frog, Osteopilus septentrionalis, may serve as intermediate hosts on South Bimini.
24321162|The purpose of this study was to assess the effects of ovarian hormones and environmental complexity on performance by females of the marsupial, Monodelphis domestica in an 8-arm radial maze. Subjects were ovariectomized (OV) or sham ovariectomized (SH) and housed either in complex (EC) or impoverished (IC) environments. Ten days after surgery, spatial working memory performance in the radial maze was assessed over a 20-day training period. Both SH and OV subjects exposed to EC conditions exhibited significantly higher mean number of correct arm choices in the first 8 visits as compared to IC subjects. Under EC conditions SH and OV subjects also achieved a higher mean number of correct choices before making an error. Food deprivation caused a disruption of the estrous cycle (a lengthening of 6-8 days); these disruptions occurred by the seventh day of maze training. During initial learning trials (before disruption of estrous), intact females exhibited a higher mean number of correct arm choices during the first 8 visits than did females from the OV group. Results indicated that although ovarian hormones and environmental complexity act independently and interactively to affect performance, environmental conditions exert a more pronounced influence on spatial learning than hormonal conditions. This is the first demonstration of these effects for a marsupial.
24320083|A life history consists of maintenance, growth and reproductive activities. Presumably, these activities have conflicting requirements for limited resources of time, energy and specific nutrients. It is proposed that the amount of a resource required by an individual of a given species for any particular event probably fluctuates only within well prescribed limits. Therefore, if sufficient resource is available over a given period of time to allow for the successful completion of two or more resource costly events, then evolutionarily, the species has determined a temporal pattern for partitioning that resource among those events. The temporal pattern of allocation displayed should encompass the strategy optimal for the organism in its environment. This proposal is applied to temporal patterns of resource allocation to the molt and breeding portions of the avian life cycle. When large numbers of avian species from several geographic regions are considered, several highly adaptive patterns emerge.
24320697|Local govemments constructed a model tidal creek community by restoring heavily impacted waterfront property on a Sarasota Bay fill island. The restoration created salt marshes, ponds, upland areas and beaches upon which extensive plantings of native plants completed the desired community. Quantitative quarterly monitoring of vegetation changes in three compartments (herbaceous vegetation, shrubs and trees) along permanent transects is being used to evaluate the success of the restoration project. Results from the first year of monitoring will be examined and emerging distributional trends in the herbaceous compartment discussed.
24320596|Two species of South American sailfin catfishes are established in Florida. Liposarcus multiradiatus is established in several canals and lakes in Dade and Palm Beach counties. Liposarcus disjunctivus is established in Hillsborough County in Hillsborough River and in Lake Thonotosassa. Both species are common in the tropical fish trade and almost certainly escaped from fish farms or were released by aquarists.
24319770|The status of anthropology at 2-yr institutions appears ambiguous. At a time when many doctorates in the discipline are prepared to teach in a junior college, those in the curriculum-decision-making process at the 2-yr schools deal with anthropology usually with mixed feelings as to its viability as a social science offering. I examine these trends and attempt to define some of the problems and prospects involved in the teaching of anthropology at the 2-yr college. What can be accomplished is illustrated by the anthropology program at Broward Community College, Central Campus, which serves as a case study for this paper.
24320565|Removal of fruits from persimmon (Diospyros virginiana), presumably by Virginia opossums (Didelphis virginiana) and raccoons (Procyon lotor), was monitored for six weeks in 1992. Trees which were distant (>3 m) from other individuals of the same species exhibited no associations among the number originally present and percent removed. By contrast, for trees less than 3 m apart, there was a significant negative correlation between percent removed and distance to nearest persimmon. It is suggested that fruit removal by mammals differs in several respects from that by birds.
24320119|A one-year study was conducted in which seagrass communities in Tampa Bay, the Indian River Lagoon, and the Little Bahama Bank were monitored quarterly for primary production, standing stock biomass, and nutrient concentrations. Primary production rates were measured in situ for the following four community autotrophic components: seagrasses, their associated epiphytic flora, phytoplankton and microbenthic algae. Photosynthetic rates were compared both within and between locations to determine the relative significance of the primary producers, and the contribution by each to areal, i.e., community production (mg C m-3h-1). In general, all species of seagrasses, their associated epiphytic flora and microbenthic algae produced at similar rates at all locations. The Indian River Lagoon had phytoplankton primary production rates that were greater than both seagrass and microbenthic algal production rates. Phytoplankton in Tampa Bay had primary production rates greater than all other community photosynthetic components, and primary production rates by all photosynthetic components in the nutrient-deplete Bahama Banks were similar. Therefore, the majority of the community primary production, i.e., the production base, in Tampa Bay and the Indian River Lagoon is contributed by phytoplankton. These areas are characterized by anthropogenic perturbations and associated high nutrient concentrations. Historical data indicate that phytoplankton, turtle grass and microbenthic algae were, at one time, equally productive in Tampa Bay. Increased phytoplankton production has reduced the relative importance of seagrasses and microbenthic algae to community production in this area. It is suggested that the relative contributions by the components of the photosynthetic community are affected by nutrient availability. Nutrient enrichment may induce a shift in the production base from benthic plants to phytoplankton. A shift of this type may be interpreted as an ecological indicator of either eutrophication or environmental stress in a coastal marine environment.
24321381|This research paper completes a systematic classification of subatomic particles (and anti-particles) by the way in which their masses, charges, and stabilities occur. The conventionally elementary particles are numerically divided in several new classes. Thus, a new, simple basis is given for a more complete eventual substantiation of how the masses and charges of all the massive sub-atomic particles of observable matter in their exotic proliferations, from the cosmic microneutrinos to the multiquark hadrons, occur as a single, continuously linked and systematically regular structure of quantized composite mass with conserved charge. What the more fundamental nature of the two enumerated microquanta building blocks can be and why they work together in a way that enables this structuring of the known massive particles and their varying mass and charge combinations also remains to be addressed. Zonal relations within this classification define a more significant grouping of the LQ particles than by the conventional three "generations."
24320700|The amounts of copper sulfate pentahydrate used as an aquatic herbicide and algicide in the Hillsborough River Reservoir, and the extended time of use may have a negative impact on the ecology of the area. In addition, the present means of algal control may not be the most effective in terms of ecology or economy. The river is sampled from the reservoir entrance near Temple Terrace to Lowry Park, including the treated area. Several parameters are considered, with primary interest focused on the disposition of the copper, which appears to precipitate near the point of application and accumulate in the sediment. The Hillsborough River is also compared to an extensive, 58-year study done on the Fairmont Lakes in southern Minnesota.
24320217|Current methods used to manage plant diseases in commercial tomato fields in Florida and their effectiveness in grower practice are compared. Host plant resistance, fertility management, the use of plastic mulch and staking of plants are bioenvironmental methods that have made significant contributions to management of specific tomato diseases.
24321024|Water level data from a 199798 field study conducted in the coastal bays at the southeast tip of the Florida peninsula are combined with water level records from earlier field studies to characterize semidiurnal and diurnal period tidal constituents in Biscayne Bay, Card Sound, Little Card Sound, Barnes Sound and Manatee Bay. Results indicate uniform amplitudes and rapid filling and draining through much of the northern part of the study area. Semidiurnal M2 constituent amplitudes are approximately 30 cm; N2 and S2 constituent amplitudes are approximately 8 and 5 cm, respectively. The diurnal K1 and O1 constituents have amplitudes of about 3 cm. In the southern part of the study area, a series of shallow banks reduces the amplitudes of all tidal constituents. In Barnes Sound and Manatee Bay, M2 amplitudes are about 5 cm, while all other constituents have amplitudes on the order of 1 cm. Calculations of bay volume relative to mean sea level indicate that 85% of all flood tides and 87% of all ebb tides transport from 200 to 350  106 m3 of water into or out of the Biscayne Bay System. The M2, S2, N2, K1 and O1 tidal constituents have amplitudes of 134.0, 19.3, 26.2, 17.2 and 13.6  106 m3, respectively. Under neap and spring tide conditions, flood and ebb intertidal volumes can be as little as 164  106 or as much as 394  106 m3. Acoustic Doppler profiler data from two locations in central and southern Biscayne Bay indicate a south-south-westward tide-induced residual transport from Biscayne Bay into Card Sound.
24320115|A review was made of various features of the Apalachicola Bay System. Unique physical, chemical, and biological features of this system combine to make it one of the most productive estuarine areas in the State of Florida. Primary productivity and secondary productivity are discussed in relation to various forcing functions (natural and man-induced). Problems associated with development include dredging, sewage effluents, pesticides and a number of up-river activities such as industrialization, cattle ranching, channelization, and damming. The Apalachicola Drainage System is viewed as one of the largest relatively unpolluted areas in the country. However, it is a neglected resource with little management or control; as such it is presently endangered by a number of activities. It is suggested that critical information necessary for the management and protection of this system be obtained, and that the impact of watershed alterations be viewed on a regional basis with coordinated participation of the involved states (Florida, Georgia, and Alabama).
24321567|Old World Climbing Fern (Lygodium microphyllum) is a non-native invasive fern that is established within South Florida and poses a significant threat to native habitats. We examined spore germination of L. microphyllum spores in three natural substrates; soil, leaf litter, and water. Germination rates on day 28 ranged from 0 to 99% across all substrate treatments. Germination on soil ranged from 84 to 97% (median 93%; mean  SD 92  4) and in water ranged from 52% to 99% (median of 85%, mean  SD of 79 %  16). Germination on leaf litter was highly variable (overall range 0 to 98%), possibly due to the predominance of wax myrtle (Myrica cerifera) leaves in the leaf litter and its associated allelopathic qualities. These results confirm that L. microphyllum spores have high germination potential on a variety of substrates. We have seen the implications of this invasive life history characteristic in the actual and predicted spread of this species. This information highlights the importance of finding and implementing control strategies that stop the plants from producing spores or limit/eliminate spore germination. Without such mechanisms encroachment of L. microphyllum will continue to pose a formidable challenge to restoration of the Everglades.
24321673|Impounded marshes under different reconnection plans (open vs. RIM) were examined at the culverts and within the interior perimeter ditch to determine if the flow regime influenced the availability of zooplankton. Management plans had no effect on zooplankton abundance, but a significant effect was found with the location within the perimeter ditch, with culverts having a higher overall abundance compared to interior points. The six most abundant taxa, in declining order of abundance, were juvenile flatworms, copepods, nauplii, rotifers, gastropod veligers, and nematodes. Specifically, juvenile flatworms, copepods, nauplii, and nematodes were more abundant at culverts. Dye diffusion studies revealed that areas with the lowest flow rates always had the highest species diversity and 'Evenness' was always higher in the interior of perimeter ditches. Impoundments appear to have the highest zooplankton densities recorded in the literature for any habitat. Canonical Correspondence Analysis of environmental data suggests that different water masses (coastal vs. estuarine) may distinguish the impoundments and drive species differences, while flow into an impoundment is correlated with zooplankton diversity and abundance. We hypothesize that zooplankton may accumulate within the impoundment ditches via migration behaviors (e.g., "selective tidal stream transport").
24320207|Two studies, 28 da each, were conducted to establish whether coquina shells could be used in laying hen diets as a source of calcium for egg shell formation. The coquina shell used in these studies analyzed 39% calcium and was from a 17 million-year-old natural deposit of shell located in a 0.9-1.5 m deep porous bed in St. Johns County, Florida. One-hundred and eighty individually-caged, 50 wk old White Leghorn hens (60 per treatment) were fed a typical commercial type layer diet containing approximately 3.4% calcium, 0.55% total phosphorus and 15.5 % crude protein. Coquina shells replaced ground limestone in the experimental diets on a 0%, 50%, and 100% basis. In both studies no significant differences were observed in egg production, egg weight, shell weight, and specific gravity when the coquina supplemented diets were compared to the control. The amount of feed required to produce a dozen eggs was similar for all treatment groups. Coquina shells can be used as a supplemental source of calcium in layer diets.
24320068|II. Boca Raton Hammock on the barrier island was originally bordered on the west with a freshwater sawgrass marsh which became overgrown by mangroves following drainage. The tropical hammock has remained since the mid-1800's. Strand vegetation dominated by saw palmetto has persisted for at least a century. III. Yamato Scrub has undergone few successional changes for the past century despite its near extirpation because of agriculture and subsequent urbanization. Even undeveloped sites show evidence of substantial disturbance. IV. Butts Hammock is an inland hammock with 73% tropical species present. After the region was drained in 1921 farming and urbanization eliminated many surrounding communities but most of the hammock itself seems to have remained. V. Boca Raton Inlet has undergone several changes in physiography and vegetation in the past with three major changes within the past 100 yr. Increased salinity has resulted in spread of mangroves and disturbance has resulted in establishment of exotic plants. Dredging, draining and jetty installations have further modified natural habitats. The four areas studied from early survey records, 1940 aerial photographs and recent aerial photography and site visits document significant vegetational shifts correlated with some natural phenomena as well as the much greater change associated with human impact.
24320054|Twenty-four postlarval and juvenile specimens of Hoplias malabaricus were collected in the Little Manatee River drainage, Hillsborough County, Florida. This collection confirms that H. malabaricus has become established in Florida.
24320740|Tolerance to low oxygen is one factor that may limit the colonization of some freshwater habitats by non-native fishes. This study examined the low oxygen tolerance of the Jack Dempsey, Cichlasoma octofasciatum, an introduced cichlid recorded from many sites in Florida. A suite of parameters that may influence tolerance to low oxygen conditions were measured including: metabolic rate, critical oxygen tension, respiratory behavior, and total gill filament length. Several lines of evidence suggest that C. octofasciatum has a relatively high tolerance to low oxygen conditions which may facilitate exploitation of hypoxic waters. In response to progressive hypoxia, C. octofasciatum uses aquatic surface respiration (ASR); however, this behavior was only initiated when oxygen levels were extremely low (<5 mm Hg), suggesting that other well-developed physiological mechanisms compensate for hypoxia above this level. These include a low metabolic rate, a large total gill filament length, and a low critical oxygen tension which averaged 14.9 mm Hg.
24321020|Lygodium microphyllum is a fern native to Asia that has been introduced into south Florida and poses a potential threat to native communities. Fern ladders grow over vegetation and appear to blanket and change the existing vegetation structure and composition. This study examined vegetation species richness and percent cover in ground cover, shrub layer, and overstory in one 4  5 m plot on each of 10 tree islands in the Arthur R. Marshall Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge. Five of the islands had dense infestations of L. microphyllum and five had very low or no infestation. Species richness was similar between infested islands and uninfested islands; however, percent cover of native species was higher in uninfested plots than in infested plots in the overstory (64% compared to 3%), shrub (33% compared to 4%), and ground cover (66% compared to 9%). This study illustrates the impact that L. microphyllum can have on native tree island communities in south Florida.
24319431|Recent captures of Notropis cummingsae, Notropis welaka, Ictalurus brunneus, and Etheostoma olmstedi from waters of the Sf. Johns River drainage are reported, and the disjunct distributions of these species in Florida are discussed. Freshwater distribution of Lucania parva in the St. Johns River system is summarized, with a new locality included. Establishment of two exotic fish species. Xiphophorus variatus and Sarotherodon aureus ( = Tilapia aurea), in Gainesville is documented. Known range of Enneacanthus chaetodon is extended to Pasco county.
24322276|A simple empirical model, requiring only easily-available data was developed to estimate weekly composites of wet chloride atmospheric deposition in a near-coastal setting. The scavenging of atmospheric chloride by rainfall was conceptualized as intense during the initial part of a rainfall event, but decreasing in intensity as the event progresses and the atmosphere becomes progressively depleted in chloride. This conceptualization was quantified with a parameterized relation between an index of removal efficiency of atmospheric chloride and the cumulative rainfall within a storm event. Distinctive source areas of chloride (land and sea) were incorporated in this method by using individual removal efficiency index functions for each of the source areas. In addition, the role of seaward winds and distance from measurement point to marine sources of chloride was considered. The method was applied to data collected July 1997September 1998 at a site about 20 kilometers inland near Daytona Beach, Florida. Data included hourly precipitation (all as rainfall) totals, chloride concentrations of weekly rainfall composites, and hourly values of wind speed and direction. The atmospheric scavenging model explained about 69% of the variation in measured weekly atmospheric deposition. Model results indicated that more than 90% of rainfall-deposited chloride is derived from the Atlantic Ocean.
24319561|The behavior of sunspots follows patterns of shape, motion, growth and decay which differ for leader and follower spots; some empirical rules are deduced and reported.
24321035|Rhodomyrtus tomentosa (downy rose myrtle) is a shrub native to southeast Asia that invades pine flatwoods of central and southern Florida, where it can form a dense, nearly monodominant understory. We studied the phenology, shoot extension and carbohydrate allocation of this little-studied invader at the University of Florida and in Jonathan Dickinson State Park (JDSP) in 19982000. R. tomentosa flowered April through June and produced fruits August through September. Shoot extension was greatest in September and lowest January through May. Tissue concentration of carbohydrate reserves in roots was relatively high (up to 300 mg/g) and did not change substantially with season, except for a June peak in total nonstructural carbohydrate (TNC) concentration in lateral roots. Lateral roots had a significantly higher concentration of TNC than root crowns (lignotubers) throughout the year. Only TNC of lateral roots showed a positive correlation with plant size. The consistently high TNC concentration in roots of R. tomentosa indicates its high resprouting potential throughout the year. Based on these results, we recommend that shoot removal by cutting, burning or herbicide is optimally done in early August before fruits ripen and become dispersed. Shoot removal then would result in rapid shoot regrowth and depletion of root TNC, because AugustOctober is the main season for shoot extension. Repeated shoot killing 612 months later will maximize the chance of killing plants completely.
24321724|The Brown Hoplo (Hoplosternum littorale), a catfish native to South America, was discovered in Florida in 1995, and it is now widely distributed and abundant throughout much of the State. Approximately 100 Brown Hoplo were collected, measured and weighed for 12 consecutive months, after which subsamples were analyzed for stomach contents, sex, gonadal somatic index (GSI), and fecundity estimates. Crustaceans (primarily cladocerans and amphipods), aquatic insects (mainly chironomid species), detritus, and decaying plant matter were the most common items in the stomachs of >400 Brown Hoplo. Monthly mean GSIs were greater than the annual mean from April through October 2003 indicating this species has a protracted spawning season. Fecundity estimates for 110 ripe females averaged 9,977 eggs. A lower lethal temperature of 10 C was identified indicating this species will be geographically limited to the area south of Gainesville. Several native predators eat Brown Hoplo and preliminary indications suggest it could be a seasonally important prey item for some (e.g., Largemouth BassMicropterus salmoides, and Common SnookCentropomus undecimalis). Although the Brown Hoplo has become one of Florida's more successful exotic fishes in terms of increasing their geographic range and abundance, there is no evidence indicating it has had deleterious effects on native fishes.
24320509|A need arose to know with greater certainty the constituents of a commercial product for absorption of liquid mercury spills in view of public inquires for recommendations on such materials and in connection with spill control recommendations being given as part of safety workshops for teachers. We give here our approach to the analysis problem which this material presented and the results of our studies. The usefulness of qualitative chemical tests and the choice of specific spectroscopic techniques such as infrared, x-ray diffraction and x-ray fluorescence for arriving at the identities of at least three components of the mixture as lead metal, zinc metal and sulfamic acid are described. Techniques for quantitative analysis of the identified components in the heterogeneous mixture were developed and gave values of: Pb = 82  3%, Zn = 10  2% and HOSO2(NH2) = 7.1  0.2%. While it was found that the Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) provided by the manufacturer of the product did not include the identities of all constituents, particularly the sulfamic acid which is a strong, corrosive acid, safety precautions they recommended for applying the product seemed adequate. A long-term reactivity of the metal components with the solid acid in the mixture was observed with our samples, but a precise identification of the products could not be made.
24319656|A key to the genera of the plant family Convolvulaceae is presented in preparation for a modern analysis of the species in Florida.
24320685|Two chelating agents, chromotropic acid and dithiooxamide, were loaded onto Amberlite IR-45 anion exchange resin, and Amberlite IR-120 cation exchange resin, respectively. The two agents were used to extract heavy metal ions (cadmium, copper, and lead) from aqueous solutions (deionized, tap, and artificial seawater). Chromotropic acid was used for removal of lithophilic metals that favor coordination to oxygen donors, whereas dithiooxamide was used for removal of chalcogenides, those metals that favor coordination to sulfur. The effectiveness of removal was measured as percent removal and as the calculated partition coefficient. Their efficiencies varied with initial pH of the medium. All metals were analyzed by atomic absorption spectrometry.
24319934|The largest living species of deposit-feeding animal has a weight of about 5 kg. The truly large animals such as whales, squids, elephants, and man are either suspension feeders, carnivores, herbivores, or omnivores. Extinct species of deposit feeders were probably small to medium-sized animals.
24320677|We tested the effects of light levels, ground disturbance and litter layers on the seedling emergence of Chrysopsis floridana Small (Asteraceae), a federally endangered perennial herb endemic to the scrub communities of west-central Florida. The complete factorial experiment included 4 replicates and 48,000 seeds. Seedling emergence was favored by disturbed soil, by the absence of a litter layer and by their combination. Seedling survival was not affected by any treatments. Fire did not affect seed germination or seedling survival, but did increase flowering. Two natural populations of C. floridana declined from 199092, with considerable turnover from both mortality and recruitment. Increasing mortality and variable recruitment during this study may be due to lack of fire and continued canopy closure within the sand pine scrub habitat. We recommend a prescribed burning program which mimics the natural fire regime of the scrub and surrounding habitats, which will provide suitable microsites for seed germination and seedling establishment.
24320230|All recorded sites and potential habitat of G. p. goffi were surveyed and the history of its distribution was reviewed. The former range of the taxon is now a city, and no gopher mounds were found there or in surrounding habitat.
24319777|Recent archaeological research has indicated that certain areas of Florida which traditionally have been designated as "hinterland" may in fact be "heartland". Cooperation between local amateur archaeologist and professional archaeologists has enabled us to record sites previously unknown or unrecorded. Knowledge of these sites will require a rvaluation of Hardee County's role in Florida prehistory.
24320716|Dissolved oxygen (DO), temperature (T) and salinity (S) were measured continuously in two Tampa Bay seagrass meadows from late August through October, 1992. Grassbeds were (1) offshore Beacon Key, south of Cockroach Bay and (2) in Boca Ciega Bay between Maximo and Bunces Passes. Temperature patterns were very similar between sites, while salinity was 2-5 parts per thousand lower at Beacon Key. Daily DO at Beacon Key ranged from a mean low of 4.38  1.71 mg/l to a mean high of 9.23  1.73 mg/l. Daily DO in Boca Ciega Bay ranged from a mean low of 5.32  0.86 mg/l to a mean high of 8.69  1.17 mg/l. Mean daily DO fluctuations were greater at Beacon Key. The only hypoxic event (DO < 2 mg/l) occurred for six hours at Beacon Key on September 9. Laboratory studies showed that adult bay scallops were able to survive prolonged exposure to low dissolved oxygen (2-4 mg/l for 8-24 hours) at several temperature:salinity combinations. It appears that dissolved oxygen is not the primary factor responsible for the decline of adult bay scallops from grassbeds in lower Tampa Bay. Funding was provided by the Tampa Bay National Estuary Program (TBNEP).
24321126|Habitat management, monitoring, and restoration efforts can benefit from regional information on plant community composition and structure from representative native habitats. We developed plant species lists and calculated percent cover and frequency averaged over multiple sampling events for forbs, graminoids, and shrubby vegetation in fire-managed slash pine (Pinus elliottii var. densa) and wet prairie habitats in southwest Florida. Slash pine habitats included 185 species of forbs, 74 species of graminoids, and 34 species of shrubs. Mean percent cover in slash pine habitat was dominated by shrubs (67%), followed by forbs (47%) and graminoids (28%). Species richness in wet prairie habitats included 135 species of forbs, 64 species of graminoids, and 18 species of shrubs. Mean percent cover in wet prairie habitat was dominated by graminoids (81%), followed by forbs (41%) and shrubs (9%).
24321736|The study tested the effects of controlled variables on decomposition of buried bodies in Florida. Twenty-four domestic pig (Sus scrofa, Linnaeus) cadavers used as a proxy for human bodies were buried in single graves to control for body size (child-sized and adult-sized), burial depth (shallow and deep), burial duration (short and long), and soil type (sand and clay). Overall, burial depth and burial duration were the two most important factors affecting the rate of decomposition. Decomposition rates slowed as bodies were buried at deeper depths. Also, body size and soil type contributed to the rate of decomposition. Decomposition rates increased with smaller-sized cadavers, and cadavers buried in clay decomposed more slowly than cadavers buried in sand. Therefore, when assessing decomposition rates of buried bodies to provide an assessment of the postmortem interval (PMI), multiple variables should be considered and PMI should not be based solely on the gross decomposition state of buried bodies. As a result, it is important to conduct decomposition research in various geographical regions and environments to gain a better understanding of the multitude of variables affecting decomposition of buried bodies.
24319659|Field studies of Nemastylis floridana, commonly known as Celestial Lily, a rare endemic of the moist flatwoods of east-central Florida, were conducted to determine its breeding system, pollen vectors, phenology and germinative capacity. The chief pollinators were Augochlorella striata and Evylaeus foxii (Halictidae). The flowers were found to be self-compatible. Self-pollination occurred without an outside vector, although this resulted in lower seed set. The pollen-ovule ratio was 690 and the outcrossing index was 3. This agreed well with Cruden's data for facultative xenogamous species. All seeds obtained from experimental plants germinated and grew readily when planted in pots and kept moist. The scarcity of Nemastylis floridana is probably due to environmental causes rather than to reproductive ones.
24321434|A Pearson correlation analysis was conducted on a database containing eight limnological variables of 34 lakes located in northwestern Hillsborough County. Lake water concentrations of total phosphorus (TP), total nitrogen (TN), and chlorophyll-; submerged aquatic vegetation (SAV) as measured by percentage of area covered with vegetation (PAC) and percentage of volume infested with vegetation (PVI); and mean depth, lake surface area, and lake volume were examined. The purpose of this study was to examine the theory by Bachmann and co-workers (2002) that SAV may reduce nutrients in the water column. The stronger statistically significant inverse correlations were found between chlorophyll- and SAV as represented by PVI and PAC (r = -0.45 and -0.41, respectively), and between lake water TP and PAC and PVI (r = -0.49 and -0.35, respectively). Weaker but also significant were the inverse correlations found between TP and mean depth (r = -0.33) as well as that between TN and PAC (r = -0.31). Statistically significant direct correlations were found between chlorophyll- and TN and TP (r = 0.38 and 0.32, respectively), and weaker but still significant, between mean depth and PVI and PAC (r = 0.31 and 0.30, respectively). In conclusion the examined theory is supported.
24320078|Explorations in Ellis Cave, Jackson Co., Florida revealed 2 species of cave dwelling fishes: the pirate perch, Aphredoderus sayanus and the redeye chub, Hybopsis harperi. Their presence in the cave is probably facultative and transitory.
24321083|The sea urchin Lytechinus variegatus was introduced to a Thalassia testudinum bed in Biscayne Bay, Florida. Experimentally increased densities of urchins had no effect on seagrass biomass or shoot density. Seasonal effects on seagrass biomass and shoot density were highly significant, with higher values for both parameters in the fall. Total epifaunal gastropod abundances were significantly affected by urchin density, decreasing to almost zero in the high urchin density treatment. These results suggest that competition was occurring between the urchins and gastropods.
24320375|The percent survival of Florida Bay white mullet, striped mullet, spotted seatrout, and gray snapper marked with internally anchored spaghetti tags was 22, 67, 75, and 100, respectively. Unmarked fish of the same species had survival percentages of 27, 77, 75, and 100, respectively. The differences between the tagged and untagged fish were not significant. Transporting the fish up to 16 km from the point of capture did not significantly decrease survival in tagged or untagged fish either.
24320984|Aerial deposition of egg clutches by the aquatic Florida applesnail is believed to have evolved in response to aquatic egg predators. Adaptation to aerial conditions might, however, have rendered embryos intolerant of submergence, a potential occurrence in natural and managed marshes, rivers, and lakes. In this study, eggs were submerged in water for various durations in the laboratory to assess their ability to survive flooding; and clutches of known ages were submerged for several days in the field to determine if aquatic predators might decrease survival below levels expected to occur due to flooding alone. Submergence of clutches slowed embryonic development and increased mortality. Embryos that were within a few days of hatching at the time of submergence were not strongly affected. When younger embryos were submerged, none hatched; and most died in early stages of growth. Submergence of clutches in the field increased mortality above that in laboratory submergence, but factors other than predation, such as loss of adhesion and entanglement with floating debris, accounted for the losses. There was no evidence that aquatic predators were a significant factor in embryonic mortality. In managed wetlands that hold populations of Pomacea paludosa, flooding should occur slowly during the reproductive season (March through October), particularly in the first few months when clutch production is high, to avoid loss of as much as 2 wk of clutch production.
24320567|The green treefrog (Hyla cinerea) and mole skink (Eumeces egregius) are recorded for the first time, and the presence of black racers (Coluber constrictor) is confirmed on Egmont Key, Hillsborough County, Florida. The unique combinations of characters found in Eumeces egregius and Coluber constrictor suggest that these elements of the herpetofauna may have a longer association with this island than previously thought. We note biogeographical similarities with populations in the Florida Keys.
24319445|Peaks of coliform abundance in Biscayne Bay are correlated with periods of heavy rainfall which flush inland canals holding sludge, nutrients and potential populations of pathogens which could pollute beach areas above acceptable levels for bathing.
24321155|We investigated the potential for the gopher tortoise (Gopherus polyphemusj to act as an agent of seed dispersal at Archbold Biological Station, Florida. Scat dissections, as well as foraging observations, were used to determine the seed species and plant taxa consumed by the tortoises during June and July 2001. The diet of the gopher tortoise consisted mainly of grasses and sedges, and these, as well as Pinus elliottii, Galactia sp., Vaccinium myrsinites, and Gaylussacia dumosa, comprised the majority of the plant matter identified in the scat. Germination tests were performed on digested and undigested seed of the two most abundant seed species found in the scat, the exotic grass Paspalum notatum (bahiagrass) and its native congener, P. setaceum. The percent germination of digested P. notatum seeds was significantly lower than the germination of undigested P. setaceum (<1% vs. 27%). In contrast, many seeds of P. setaceum germinated after digestion, and there was no significant difference between digested and undigested seeds of this species. Gopher tortoises disperse seeds of the exotic P. notatum but suppress immediate germination. They disperse the native grass P. setaceum, which is able to germinate immediately after tortoise digestion.
24319931|In January 1981, 4 to 6 manatees were observed apparently feeding on Ulva sp. (green alga) near a shallow sand bar at the mouth of the Alafia River. Plant material was subsequently collected for identification and weight. Algae collected were Graciliaria tikvahiae (dominant), Ulva sp. and Chaetomorpha linum. It is suggested that marine algae may be an important food source for the Tampa Bay winter manatee population. From the available information we were not able to determine whether the manatees were actively selecting Ulva on which to feed.
24319926|A brief comment with scanning and transmission electron micrographs is given for 19 species and varieties of Chrysophycean genera occurring in Florida lakes and rivers. Two taxa have not been reported previously from North America.
24321839|We developed lengthweight relationships for 25 fish species collected throughout the Wekiva River drainage in central Florida. Sixteen species, mostly killifishes, minnows, darters and sunfishes, had lengthweight regressions slopes significantly < 3.0 (P < 0.05). Only American Eel (Anguilla rostrata) had a length-weight regression slope significantly > 3.0. Plots of variance to mean ratios of log10 transformed weight data were used to evaluate sources of variance in length-weight data of small fishes. Results indicate that by weighing small fishes in the laboratory, individuals as small as 710 mm TL and weighing as little as 0.01 g, can be used to calculate some species length-weight regressions. For a majority of fish species (15 of 23), individuals captured in the fall (OctoberNovember) had significantly higher relative condition factors (Kn,) than individuals captured in the spring and early summer (MayJuly). While reproduction cycles could partly be responsible for the observed seasonal differences in Kn, it appears that seasonal differences in food availability, particularly invertebrates, may also play a role. We conclude that lengthweight regressions and Kn values may provide useful tools for evaluating population responses of a broad suite of fish species to potential habitat changes, and altered flows in the Wekiva River.
24319529|Food habits and reproduction of the taillight shiner (Notropis maculatus (Hay)) were studied from 1718 fish collected in a small pond in Hillsborough County, Florida. The population consisted of two life stages, juvenile and adult. Both life stages showed similar dietary patterns, feeding primarily on algae from late summer through early winter, and Cladocera from late winter through spring. Except for one occasion, both life stages continually selected ostracods, and copepods usually were avoided. The breeding season, modulated by warm-waters and abundant sunshine, extended MarchSeptember with spawning terminating by October. Recruitment occurred from July through February. Mature females consistently were larger than mature males.
24321804|Nemapalpus nearcticus Young (Diptera: Psychodidae) is reported from Vaca Key, Monroe County, Florida. This species previously was known only from Alachua and Levy Counties, Florida, and from Abaco Island, Bahamas.
24320670|A Recycling Index is defined as a measure of efforts to recycle solid waste. The 1988 Solid Waste Act mandated a goal of 30% recycling for Florida counties. The Recycling Index is a component of the SAFE (Strategic Assessment of Florida's Environment) Project, the presentation of a series of indices that can assist in defining the quality of our environment. Five years of recycling are reviewed, and the implications of the Index are considered.
24319744|Skeletal particles of the major components of the carbonate sediment of the reef shoal environment were examined using the scanning electron microscope. This examination revealed no set pattern of skeletal breakdown according to microarchitectural structure, as postulated by the Sorby principle, but that such a breakdown depends on mineralogical composition, wall thickness, grain size and pattern, density, and the amount of cementation and bioerosion. To investigate general particle-size abundances and deficiencies in carbonate sediment, samples were taken from the reef crest, back-reef rubble and open-sand ecozones of the reef shoal environments of sites from the Bahamas, Dry Tortugas, Lower Florida Keys, Grand Cayman Island and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Size analyses of these samples showed that the sediment is moderately well-sorted, coarsely-skewed and leptokurtic. Although particle-size abundances (or modes) exist in each individual site, there is no particular particle-size abundance that is common to all the sites. It is inferred that the particle abundances (or modes) for each site are a product of the sorting potential of the wave energy and that this sorting potential is the major control of the breakdown of sand-sized skeletal particles rather than the microarchitectural structure as proposed by the Sorby principle.
24321061|The yellow stingray, Urobatis jamaicensis (family Urolophidae), a short-lived, relatively small elasmobranch species (3540 cm total length), is a common inhabitant of hard bottom and coral reef communities in southeastern Florida and many parts of the Caribbean. A paucity of published studies deal with the yellow stingray, none however on the gross morphology of its nervous system. The gross brain structure of the yellow stingray is compared with previously published studies on other batoid elasmobranchs. The external brain structure of Urobatis jamaicensis was similar to that reported for other Dasyatids, including presence of an asymmetric cerebellum. The bilaterally symmetric brain is well developed and quite large in proportion to body size ( 12% bw). Stingrays generally possess a brain three to 10 times the size of their sister groups, the electric rays, guitarfish, and skates (Northcutt, 1989), the yellow stingray is no exception.
24320728|Nine species of mysids, belonging to five genera, were identified from 80 samples and over 4,500 individuals collected from Tampa Bay. Collections were made with dip nets, epibenthic sleds, and triangular dredges in depths ranging from <1.0m to 10.5m. Mysidopsis almyra and M. bahia were the most commonly collected species taken in shallow waters (<2m). These species were sympatric in Old Tampa Bay where they were also abundant in deeper waters. Although M. almyra was restricted to the lower salinities of Old Tampa Bay, M. bahia was frequently collected in shallow areas of Middle and Lower Tampa Bay. Taphromysis bowmani was the dominant species in vegetated areas and was taken from fresh-water in the Hillsborough River to the mouth of Tampa Bay. Bowmaniella brasiliensis is a burrowing species that was found on sandy substrates in shallow waters throughout the Bay. Metamysidopsis swifti was restricted to the surf zone and shallow offshore areas of high energy beaches where it was the dominant species. Brasilomysis castroi, Mysidopsis furca, M. mortenseni, and an undescribed species of Mysidopsis occur offshore and were collected mainly in the deeper waters of Middle and Lower Tampa Bay. However, the latter two species were taken occasionally in waters of <2m. I thank David K. Camp for assistance in the field. Financial support for this study was provided by the University of Tampa (Faculty Development Grant) and the Florida Marine Research Institute.
24320946|The manta ray, Manta birostris, is occasionally observed in nearshore and offshore habitats along the Atlantic coast of Florida. This species has once been observed in a North Carolina estuary, but has not been previously recorded from other estuarine waters of the southeastern United States. This study documents three manta rays observed within the inshore waters of the Indian River Lagoon system, FL, and Port Canaveral, FL, during 1993 and 1994.
24321601|Although Graphocephala atropunctata (Signoret) (Hemiptera: Cicadellidae) is the native blue-green sharpshooter, BGSS, which has been a major vector of Pierce's disease in vineyards in California for nearly a century, only recently has any genomic information become available. Due to the importance of the BGSS as the principal native vector of Pierce's disease, we chose to examine the biology of the BGSS using a genomics approach. A cDNA library was made from adult BGSS, and 8,160 expressed sequence tags, ESTs, were produced. After quality scoring 6,836 sequences underwent assembly which produced a set of 1,915 sequences that putatively represented distinct transcripts. Initial annotation of this dataset identified 44 putative protein sequences were characterized through in silico analyses, and published in the NCBI database (Accession numbers are listed in Table 1). BLASTX analysis identified 10 significant homology matches to heat shock proteins, HSP, which are the focus of this study due to their overall importance and functions in maintaining protein integrity and activity during stressful conditions, such as extreme heat, cold, drought or crowding. A putative full-length small heat shock protein was produced NCBI database accession DQ445538.1. Many other genes of interest which have various functions in leafhopper biology and physiology have also been identified but are not reported herein. The EST sequences reported in this study have been deposited in GenBank's dbEST under accession numbers EH655849EH662328 and EH662332.
24320067|Predrainage vegetational patterns of the Atlantic Coastal Ridge of Palm Beach County were mapped using 1845-1870 survey maps, 1940 aerial photographs, 1913-1973 soil surveys and ground truth studies. A detailed analysis of vegetational changes regarding secondary succession was made by selecting specific areas throughout the overall study region. These areas were described by documenting community changes with regard to species composition and community location. A checklist of the vascular flora was made for each selected area. Using the entire coastal strip vegetation maps and specific study sites, generalizations were made regarding plant succession in the major plant communities; Beach, Coastal Strand, Tropical Hammock, Low Hammock, Scrub, Pine Flatwoods, Wet and Dry Prairies, Mangroves, Swamps and Freshwater Marshes. Pre and postdrainage historical and hydrological information was correlated with geological history in order to show how the physical and biological factors affect vegetation.
24320265|Gonyaulax monilata cysts were found in the sediments from 13 of 37 stations sampled in the Indian River, Florida. The distribution of cysts appears to be the result of 2 unrelated phenomena. In areas where blooms have occurred in the past, the lack of circulation in the lagoon allows the cysts to accumulate. South of Turkey Creek, cysts are found associated with shellfish beds where no blooms have been reported. It is suggested these cysts have been introduced into shellfish regions with oysters which are annually rafted from areas where G. monilata blooms occur. Blooms of this toxic dinoflagellate can be expected to reoccur in regions they have in the past, and the possibility of blooms in the vicinity of the shellfish beds around Grant, Florida now exists. However, there is not sufficient evidence to implicate direct toxicity to shellfish by G. monilata.
24319415|The food habits of the white catfish, Ictalurus catus (L.), from North Newport River, an estuarine area of the Georgia coast, were studied. The digestive tracts of 174 specimens examined contained over 5000 recognizable food-items representing some 50 different species of organisms. Crustaceans, especially amphipods, comprised the most frequently occurring and most numerous organisms encountered. The variety of organisms recovered from the digestive tracts of white catfish in this study and from the stomachs of white catfish previously studied by others, indicate that this fish is an opportunistic, omnivorous feeder. Seasonal movements and diurnal feeding patterns for I. catus are briefly discussed.
24320698|The proposed interstate expansion will affect a number of historic structures, including two National Register Historic Districts. The background of the interstate study and the affected neighborhoods are described. As the project uses partial Federal funding, historic resources which may be impacted directly or indirectly by the project must be identified and protected through the Section 106 process, which involves concemed parties at the local, State and Federal levels. Direct and indirect impacts and an overview of the Section 106 process are discussed in the context of the Tampa project as well as mitigative solutions.
24320426|Forty-two species, varieties and forms of the silica-scaled Chrysophycean families Mallomonadaceae and Paraphysomonadaceae are reported from central and southern Florida. Identifications were based on electron microscopical details of siliceous scales and bristles. Five taxa not previously reported for the U.S. are included, including one new to North America.
24320787|Platinum compounds are of interest because of their antitumor activity. The best known example is Cisplatin, cis-diamminedichloroplatinum(II) (cis-Pt(NH3)2Cl2), which is effective against a variety of human tumors. Two approaches have been taken to produce second generation platinum drugs of enhanced therapeutic effectiveness. One involves modification of the amine and/or the leaving group, while the other involves the preparation of platinum(IV) analogs. This work explores the oxidation of Pt(II) to Pt(IV) complexes by either the action of nitrogen dioxide gas (NO2) on aqueous solutions of the Pt(II) compound, or by nitric oxide gas (NO) on solutions of the Pt(II) complexes in nitric acid. Both approaches appear to produce nitrous acid as a reactive species. The bis(ethylenediamine) system, [Pt(en)2]X2, was investigated and reported here. In this system, rapid oxidation occurs which produces blue intermediates, presumably containing a platinum nitrosyl bond. These species undergo further oxidation in air at slower rates, which are a function of counter ions, to produce pale yellow solutions from which four Pt(IV) nitro complexes, [Pt(en)2NO2Cl](NO3)2, [Pt(en)2(NO2)ONO](NO3)2, [Pt(en)2(NO2)OH](NO3)2, and [Pt2(en)4(NO2)2OH](NO3)5, were isolated.
24321019|We determined background total concentrations of selected elements, bulk density, cation exchange capacity (CEC), pH, and texture for surface soils of Kennedy Space Center (KSC), Merritt Island, a complex barrier island. We classified soils into 10 classes: coastal, acid scrub, coquina scrub, flatwoods, hammocks, freshwater wetlands, saltwater wetlands, citrus scrub, citrus hammock, and disturbed. Within each class, 20 sites were sampled, and the samples analyzed by standard techniques. Four elements (Sb, Be, Co, Ni) were always below detection. Barium, Cd, Se, Ag, and Tl were seldom detected. Arsenic, Cu, and Hg were above detection limits with intermediate frequency, while the other metals were frequently detected. Elements, above detection in >25% of samples, (Al, As, Ca, Cr, Cu, Fe, Pb, Mg, Mn, Hg, K, Na, V, and Zn) varied significantly among soil classes, as did bulk density, pH, and CEC (ANOVA, p<0.001 ). Chromium, Cu, Mn, and Zn concentrations were high in agricultural soils, due to sources in fertilizers or pesticides. Variation in other elements was related to soil origin, age, and degree of leaching. Bulk density was lower but CEC higher in soils where organic matter had accumulated. Mean grain size varied among soil classes; most were fine sands, but coastal and coquina scrub soils were medium sands due to the presence of shell fragments. These data indicate that contamination of KSC soils has not been widespread.
24320085|A male Stizostedion canadense was taken from the Apalachicola River and a male Ammocrypta asprella was collected from the Escambia River.
24319539|Salinity preference in aquatic snakes was measured in a divided aquarium over a 6 hr period. Comparative studies were made on 5 species of snakes from marine, estuarine, and fresh-water habitats: Nerodia fasciata pictiventris, fresh-water Florida banded water snake; N. f. compressicauda, estuarine mangrove snake; N. s. sipedon, fresh-water northern water snake; Laticauda colubrina, marine banded sea snake; and Cerberus rhynchops, marine homalopsid snake. All 3 Nerodia and L. colubrina preferred fresh water to sea water (35); C. rhynchops showed a random distribution. Severe dehydration of one C. rhynchops by submersion in sea water for 109 da without feeding led to a strong preference for fresh water. The Nerodia races showed random distributions in two types of control tests, in which both sides of the aquarium contained fresh water, or both sides contained sea water. Both N. f. pictiventris and N. f. compressicauda preferred fresh water to 50% sea water (17.5). At 15% sea water (5.5), N. f. compressicauda still preferred fresh water, while N. f. pictiventris showed a slight preference for the 15% sea water. At 10% sea water (3.5), N. f. compressicauda again preferred fresh water, whereas N. f. pictiventris showed no significant preference for either salinity. N. f. compressicauda also preferred fresh water to 2 of 3 solutions osmotically similar to 35 sea water, 0.5 Molal NaCl and 0.5 Molal KCl. There was a random distribution between fresh water and 1.0 Molal sucrose. Some preliminary experiments were performed on N. s. sipedon to determine the sense organs involved in the preference for fresh water over 35 sea water. Blockage of olfaction and the vomeronasal system had no apparent effect on the snakes' preference for fresh water. It is possible that oral sensory papillae and/or general oral gustation are involved in salinity perception.
24321476|Basking surveys for Barbour's map turtle (Graptemys barbouri) in 19992001 first documented its occurrence in Florida in the Choctawhatchee River and confirmed its presence in the Ochlockonee River. A total of 294 Graptemys was observed along 145.2 km of the Choctawhatchee River, with highest densities (57/km) occurring in the upper reaches north of Caryville, Holmes County, Florida; no map turtles were observed in the lower reaches south of Camel Bluff, Walton County, Florida. In the Choctawhatchee River, 98.0% of Graptemys were observed from ca. 5 km south of Interstate 10 in Holmes County, where a limestone bottom begins, upstream into Geneva County, Alabama. We classified 41.5% of observed Graptemys as juveniles and 75.9% of adults as males. The proportion of map turtles observed basking during 30-min intervals from 1000 to 1429 hr did not differ significantly from the amount of survey effort. Graptemys barbouri was uncommon in the Ochlockonee River, a blackwater river that probably provides suboptimal habitat. Only four G. barbouri were observed along 162.0 km of the Ochlockonee River in the same two sections where three juveniles were previously captured. Other reptile species observed frequently during the surveys were Pseudemys concinna, P. floridana, Trachemys scripta, Apalone spp., and Alligator mississippiensis.
24321984|Release of copper (Cu) from antifouling paints on marine vessels is pollution concern globally. Estimates of the total amount of Cu released from antifouling paints are fairly well constrained; however, less is known about the dispersal of this dissolved Cu. To help improve our understanding of the fate of Cu releases from antifouling paints, a study was carried out in Crane Creek and the adjacent Indian River Lagoon, FL. Dissolved Cu released from antifouling paints accounted for >90% of the total dissolved Cu input to the creek. The maximum concentration of dissolved Cu in the creek, 2.2 g/L, was 16% above the U.S. EPA chronic value of 1.9 g/L. Potential adverse impacts from Cu were likely reduced by uptake of dissolved Cu on suspended particles. Mass balance calculations for Cu showed that about one-third of the dissolved, anthropogenic Cu released from antifouling paint was transported from the creek into the adjacent lagoon. About two-thirds of the anthropogenic Cu was independently shown to be deposited in creek sediments. Copper values for creek sediments were as high as 201 g/g, well above an effects range-low of 70 g/g.
24321161|Chemistry at USF is about 45 years old, and a number of changes have occurred in that time. The faculty has grown from four to over 30. Department status was obtained 40 years ago. The total amount available for research has grown from a few thousand dollars to over three million. The Department is now part of a research I university. The attitude toward research has obviously changed with the development of first a masters, then a doctoral program in chemistry. The tendency toward interdisciplinary research has been strong for many years. The balance between undergraduate and graduate is good. We can look with pride on the accomplishments of the faculty, staff, and alumni of 45 years.
24319917|Air samples were measured in Tallahassee to monitor fallout from the Chernobyl reactor accident, which occurred April 26, 1986 at 1:23 AM. One set of air samples was collected from April 30, 1986 through May 23, 1986 to measure -ray activity, and another set was collected from April 30, 1986 through June 6, 1986 to measure total  activity. 131I and 137Cs were observed in the  analysis, with 131I peaking on May 9 at 0.7  0.1 pCi/m3 and 137Cs May 12 at 0.40  0.05 pCi/m3. The 137Cs was, however, also present as room background, most likely the result of past above-ground nuclear tests. Tallahassee gross beta activity had large daily fluctuations indicating that this is not a good indicator of increased radioactivity at the levels measured. Data from Orlando are also presented (131I) along with a brief listing of radionuclides and amounts detected in other U.S. cities for comparison. The fallout from Chernobyl did not present a health hazard to the population of Florida.
24319672|Levels of dissolved carbon dioxide under the mats formed by the floating water hyacinth (Eichhornia crassipes) were found to reach levels as high as 60 mmHg. Field data suggest that carbon dioxide is being removed from the water in the daytime by the extensive root system of the water hyacinths and might be available for photosynthesis. Experiments with 14C-labeled bicarbonate verify that the water hyacinth is capable of fixing dissolved carbon dioxide, and this source probably accounts for at least 10% of the total carbon fixed by this plant.
24321922|In Florida, Florida Bass (Micropterus floridanus) fisheries have high recreational, economical, and social value, and trophy-size bass contribute a large part of the identity and draw of these fisheries. In adopting the state's comprehensive Black Bass Management Plan in 2011, the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission (FWC) emphasized a commitment to research and management practices that enhance opportunities for angler catch of these rare and valuable fish. In October 2012, the FWC launched TrophyCatch, an angler-based citizen-science program that documents trophy bass ( 3.63 kg). A primary goal of the program is to establish a long-term record of spatial and temporal characteristics of trophy bass catches, relying on the state's numerous anglers to alleviate difficulties associated with the collection and reporting of these data using traditional approaches. Through 18 months of operation, anglers have documented 694 trophy-size bass with the TrophyCatch program. Initial measures suggest that program participation was low in year 1; however, the first 6 months of year 2 showed a 250% increase in entries, suggesting rapid growth in participation and a promising outlook for achieving program goals. Through time, information gained via TrophyCatch will help the FWC identify long-term and landscape-level patterns in the catch of trophy-size Florida Bass, aiding in future management of the species.
24320666|Hurricane Andrew, the most powerful storm to hit South Florida in over 50 years, passed directly over the northern portion of the Florida Reef Tract on 24 August 1992. Seven months later, a strong winter storm (The Storm of the Century, 1213 March 1993) pounded the recovering reef communities for a period of two days. In this paper, we quantify the coral community on a reef directly affected by both storms, attempt to separate the reef into zones using several multivariate techniques, and document zone-specific damage to corals following each of the storm events. Coral cover on Elkhorn Reef in Biscayne National Park is high (43%) relative to surrounding reefs. Several ordination and classification methods were used to detect coral zonation. PCA analysis showed separation of the reef into three zones, fore-reef, reef-flat, and rubble zone. The reef-flat and rubble zones experienced significant damage during Hurricane Andrew, with most of the damage sustained by the branching coral Acropora palmata. Nearly all colonies had broken branches, but < 30% were entirely shattered. Overall, damage to corals was less than expected given the strength and proximity of the storm. In contrast, the Storm of the Century had significant effects only on reel-flat corals. This lower intensity but longer duration storm removed hurricane-generated live A. palmata fragments reducing potential rates of asexual recruitment, and greatly reduced the cover of Porites astreoides, a species largely undamaged by the hurricane. Thus, sequential storms of varying magnitude and duration caused different patterns of coral damage within a single reef system.
24320718|Stable oxygen isotope compositions of natural waters have proven to be excellent tracers for transfers from one reservoir to another, and have been used in this study of the hydrological cycle of west-central Florida. During the period of 1991-1992, rainwater, atmospheric water vapor, ground water in a transect from the Green Swamp to coastal southwest Hillsborough County, and selected tap waters have been monitored for 18O (ratio of 18O/16O of sample compared to a standard in parts per thousand). Compositions in terms of 18O for the above types of waters were -4.4, -13.6, -2.8, and -2.4 o/oo, respectively. 18O in Floridan water in west-central Florida is invariant during the one and one-half year study, but is heavier than the 18O of rainwater. Calculation of the fractionation factor between atmospheric water vapor and rainwater, collected in St. Petersburg, indicates there is an isotopic equilibrium between the two phases at  25C. Tap water has slightly heavier 18O, compared to ground water. Interactions of old ground water with carbonate aquifer and/or saltwater/gypsum bed are possibly responsible for heavier 18O in ground water near coastal areas.
24321216|Although primarily a herbivore, there are a few observations of the terrestrial Central American black iguana eating bats, rodents, lizards and their eggs, frogs, chicks and other small birds, insects and spiders, as well as the eggs and juveniles of its own species. To this list of animal prey can be added an intertidal-dwelling crustacean, the painted ghost crab (Ocypode gaudichaudii), which this lizard has been observed to capture on a beach in Puntarenas Province, on the northwestern coast of Costa Rica.
24320563|The gastropod Melampus coffeus rapidly consumes mangrove leaf detritus and shows preferences for leaves of certain species and degree of leaf senescence. In the field, most grazing on leaves occurred over the first 24 days with percent total leaf area affected by grazing being 84.6 (Rhizophora mangle), 16.6 (Laguncularia racemosa), and 98.8 (Avicennia germinans). By the end of the 42 day laboratory experiment, about 70 % of R. mangle green leaf area and 80 % of R. mangle brown leaf area had been completely consumed. Also, 70 % of A. germinans brown leaf area had been consumed, while for L. racemosa about 33 % of green and 60 % brown leaf area had been consumed. The high density of snails (99.4-130.2/m2) at the field study site, coupled with rapid consumption of leaf detritus, suggests that M. coffeus is an important component of the overall breakdown and export of mangrove leaf organic matter.
24321085|The D-ribose high-affinity transport Operon (RbsDACBKR) o/Escherichia coli encodes the proteins necessary for high-affinity transport and utilization of D-ribose. RbsD encodes a 15 kDa protein and is the first gene of the Operon. The gene has been cloned into a T7-based expression system and expressed in E. coli. The gene product has been purified in a single step using hydrophobic interaction chromatography. This simple, fast and efficient purification protocol should facilitate detailed characterization of the protein.
24320341|A quarterly baseline study of benthic macroinvertebrates was conducted from December 1979 to March 1981 in the brackish lagoons surrounding Launch Complex 39A (LC-39A) of the John F. Kennedy Space Center. This was performed as part of the NASA Environmental Effects Program for Space Shuttle activities. A baseline monitoring study was also conducted in the Banana River from December 1979 to December 1980 to monitor benthic community recovery at 2 sites in the Banana River following removal of silt by shallow water dredging. A check-list of the macroinvertebrates found in the 2 areas is given. One hundred and twenty-two species were collected from both studies: 67 species from the lagoons and 108 species from the Banana River; 53 species were common to both areas.
24319689|Prey availability and changes in food selection by M. austroriparius were examined on 3 nights, 1 during the period of lactation in early summer and 2 during the intermittant cold weather in early spring. Analysis was based on 669 whole insects and 93 fecal pellets. Warm temperate zone weather strongly influences insect availability and hence the phenology of this insectivorous bat. On the colder spring night, only Diptera were active, and the bats selected the largestmosquitoes and crane flies. On the warmer spring and summer nights, flying insects were more diverse and abundant, and the bats selected several kinds with a preference order of Coleoptera, Lepidoptera, and culicid Diptera. Though feeding as generalists on several prey taxa, the bats appeared to select prey on the basis of size within taxonomic groups. The long period of ample food supply for warm temperate M. austroriparius contrasts with the short growing season for cool temperate Myotis lucifugus and with year-round food availability for tropical emballonurids, with distinct implications for timing and duration of bat reproduction in the 3 zones. Seasonal differences in food supply may also influence the size of summer and winter colonies.
24321387|A specimen of Calpodes ethlius (Stoll) is reported from Vaca Key in the Florida Keys.
24321251|Of the 18 species of sunflowers recorded from Florida, Helianthus carnosus Small is easily distinguished by the scapose flower stalks, yellow disk flowers, and glabrous leaves. This perennial herb is endemic to northeastern Florida and is considered endangered by the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services. The lakeside sunflower is reported for the first time from Putnam County representing the only known population west of the St. Johns River. Associated plants are listed, and the habitat is described.
24320688|A nonindigenous population of the South American armored catfish Hoplosternum littorale (Siluriformes: Callichthyidae) was discovered in the Indian River lagoon system of Florida. Specimens taken during NovemberDecember 1995 represent the first record of this species in the United States. The Indian River population has likely undergone at least one successful spawning, a conclusion based, in part, on its current abundance (a minimum of several hundred adults), locality (far from any known fish farms), and habitat (a series of ditches connected to the adjacent Indian River lagoon and to extensive marsh habitat). Additional surveying and monitoring is required to fully assess the status and impact of this species on the native aquatic fauna.
24321730|Marine algae from the northeast coast associated with the intertidal coquina formations at three beach elevations were studied during all seasons over several years. Taxa identified included 16 Cyanobacteria, 9 Chlorophyta, 10 Rhodophyta, 2 Phaeophyta, and 1 Bacilliariophyte. The Cyanobacteria, equally distributed among epilithic and endolithic taxa occurred mainly on the infralittoral level, were the dominant algae and the only group well represented at all beach elevations. The Chlorophyta, almost equally distributed among endolithic and epilithic species, occurred mainly on the infralittoral zone. The Phaeophyta and Rhodophyta, macroscopic seaweeds, grew primarily on the infralittoral zone. Location and abundance of most taxa remained unchanged throughout the seasons, but Porphyra leucosticta Thuret and Petalonia fascia (Mller) Kuntze were collected only during January through March of each year on the infralittoral and midlittoral levels. Standing crops of endolithic algae in coquina were greatest at infralittoral beach levels, and least at the supralittoral zone. Colonization of endolithic algae on surfaces of beach rocks not previously exposed to nature began within 14 days; after 70 days, colonized biomass reached highest values at infralittoral levels, and smallest at supralittoral zones. Calcite crystals fastened to the formations became colonized with endolithic Hyella sp., Ostreobium sp., Phormidium sp., and fungi.
24320329|More than 72 species of fouling organisms are found in the Indian River. Most are of warm water affinity. Many species are seasonal, whereas others settle throughout the year. Species distribution patterns show that the species composition of the fouling community changes north of the Ft. Pierce Inlet. The Ft. Pierce Inlet area is dominated by stenotopic colonial forms, whereas eurytopic solitary forms dominate the areas north of the inlet. Differences are attributed to increasing environmental stresses on the organisms at locations away from the inlet. Disturbances also influence the fouling community. Most members of the Indian River fouling community are filter feeders, and the suspended materials they feed on may be cycled through the community several times before falling to the bottom as sediment. Fouling communities are an important agent for converting suspended material to bottom sediments.
24321010|The climatic space within which a species survives and reproduces under natural conditions, i.e., its "climatic envelope," offers a relatively simple means for designing a system to monitor early biotic effects of climatic warming. The predicted loss of some part of a temperate plant species' climatic envelope from a certain area under a warming scenario identifies that area as a place where the species may be expected to lose fitness and eventually a part of its natural range. Monitoring fitness components of woody temperate species at sites within areas predicted to show large negative responses to 1C annual warming provides an opportunity for early detection of negative impacts that may be greater with additional warming (e.g., 2C). If a species is an ecologically important component of a major ecosystem, some potential loss of that ecosystem's integrity will also be expected. A number of sites where warming-induced envelope losses are predicted for one or more temperate species can then be identified as desirable parts of a monitoring system. An example involving six native, temperate, ecologically important, woody plant species, three 1 C annual warming scenarios, and a diverse group of major natural ecosystems is presented for Florida. In addition, monitoring sites for detection of warming induced increases in fitness of seven ecologically important, woody subtropical species are proposed, based on the northern boundaries of their current natural ranges. Florida s large and diverse system of conservation lands provides numerous protected areas in which selected species can be monitored over time for early indications of fitness change associated with a warming trend. Field inventories of these areas will be needed subsequently to select those most suitable for monitoring adequate stands and/or numbers of the proposed species.
24320605|On 25 July 1988 a veterinary autopsy attributed the deaths of 3 cattle to prolonged exposure to mass feeding by mosquitoes. During the winter and spring of 1988 an unseasonal delay in the rainy season in coastal mangrove areas resulted in high populations of Aedes taeniorhynchus (Wiedemann). The presence of large numbers of Ae. taeniorhynchus was reflected in data collected on larval and adult mosquito populations within 5 km of the pasture where the cows died. This report suggests that prolonged exposure to large numbers of Ae. taeniorhynchus caused these deaths.
24321100|Spotted bullhead Ameiurus serracanthus were collected from the Suwannee, Ochlockonee, Apalachicola, Choctawhatchee, and Yellow rivers. No spotted bullhead were collected from either the Escambia or St. Marys rivers. The highest mean relative abundance of spotted bullhead was observed in the Suwannee River (1.72 fish/minute) compared to the Yellow River where only five individuals were collected in four years of sampling. The Apalachicola River exhibited a very low relative abundance of spotted bullhead (<0.04 fish/minute) probably due at least in part to the range extension of flathead catfish Pylodictis olivaris more than 20 years ago. Although the flathead catfish has been in the Ochlockonee (at least 11 years) and the Choctawhatchee (at least two years) rivers, relative abundance of spotted bullhead continues to be high (>0.5 fish/minute) in most years. Between 13% (Suwannee River) and 23% (Choctawhatchee River) of all spotted bullhead collected were greater than 23 cm, total length, the previously assumed maximum size. Two spotted bullheads collected from the Suwannee (335 mm; 646g) and the Ochlockonee (338 mm; 588 g) rivers are the largest reported specimens collected to date.
24321117|Patterns of mean zooplankton abundance were observed during JanuaryAugust 1998 in Lake Wauberg, Florida. Zooplankton size structure was evaluated from April August. Total zooplankton density, cladoceran density, copepod density and rotifer density varied significantly among months (P < 0.01). Zooplankton abundance was lowest in January and February, peaked in April and May, then declined throughout the summer. Cladocerans peaked in abundance in May and were dominated by Daphnia, Eubosmina, Bosmina, and Diaphanosoma at varying times throughout the study. Mean length for cladocerans ranged from 0.30 mm to 0.52 mm depending on which genera dominated at any given time. Mean copepod abundance varied among months and was generally highest in spring. Mean copepod length did not vary significantly (P > 0.05) among months due to the dominance of nauplii (>70% by number). Mean rotifer density in May was significantly higher than all other months except April (P < 0.05) with Conochilus/Conochiloides (grouped together) and Brachionus comprising the dominant taxa. Rotifers ranged in size from 0.06 mm to 0.15 mm and monthly mean size was greatest in late summer due to the presence of larger-bodied rotifers. Our results suggest that Lake Wauberg is more characteristic of tropical systems containing smaller adult cyclopoid and daphnid species than those found in more temperate climates. Fish predation may also play a role in structuring the zooplankton community in Lake Wauberg.
24321725|The black spiny-tailed iguana or ctenosaur (Ctenosaura similis) is known to consume a variety of plants and animals in its native range from Mexico south to Panama, but little is known about its behavior and foraging ecology in its introduced range of southern Florida. The abundance of C. similis in certain areas in southern Florida makes it a good candidate to study the diet of this species in its introduced range. Additionally, it has been hypothesized that C. similis illustrates an ontogenetic diet shift, where neonates and juveniles consume mostly invertebrates and adults consume mostly vegetation. In this study, we 1) document the diet of C. similis from two allopatric southern Florida populations (Gasparilla Island and Key Biscayne) and 2) test this diet shift hypothesis. We documented 65 consumed items, including at least 24 native plants and 13 invertebrates, and 14 nonindigenous plants and 2 vertebrates. Ctenosaura similis consumed the Endangered Curaao bush (Cordia globosa) and may act as a seed disperser for Brazilian pepper (Schinus terebinthifolius). We found a significant difference in the consumed item types between size classes, suggesting an ontogenetic diet shift and possible physiological importance of particular food types to particular size classes of C. similis.
24320264|An overview energy analysis model was developed for Volusia County, Florida. It was aggregated to include driving functions causing change from outside the county, and the main categories of land use in the county, including natural, agricultural, and urban assets. Computer simulation of a simplified model suggests trends to be expected in growth and land use for various alternative energy conditions. The increasing ratio of outside purchased resources to local environmental resources is used to estimate the population and development to be expected assuming continued rises in price of fuels and fuel-based goods and services.
24319400|Range of the southern grapefern in Florida is extended 100 miles westward to Escambia County.
24320031|The problem of solid waste disposal by small and medium size communities in low population density regions is addressed in the context of major national problems. In particular, the merits of coburning community waste with locally grown or gathered biomass together with sewage generated biogas and natural gas and coal as needed are examined. What emerges is a strategic approach in which local public problems are solved in a fashion which helps alleviate national problems rather than in isolation. In this approach, factory-fabricated modular waste and biomass to energy systems are installed in local communities and operated by well-trained personnel. This distributed solution has many advantages with respect to a central landfill or mass burn facility including: (1) increased incentives for recycling and separation at the source of toxic and hazardous waste, (2) reduced capital costs, (3) reduced transportation cost, (4) reduced emissions, (5) lower ambient pollutant concentrations, (6) reduced ash toxicity, and (7) the availability of inexpensive energy in the form of steam, hot water, or hot gas. Several possible uses for this energy, which can stimulate the local economy, are discussed. Our work points to the nearterm availability of community waste to energy system technologies (CWEST) and also the need to further develop this approach to energy security and environmental protection.
24319784|A statistical analysis was made of cheek teeth of Plio/Pleistocene hominids. Samples used were Kenya National Museum specimens usually classified as Homo habilis and Australopithecus boisei, and Transvaal National Museum teeth assigned to A. africanus and A. robustus. Certain of the South African distributions appeared anomalous. These included a lower first premolar, first and second lower molars, and an upper third molar from Makapan; and upper first and third molars from Sterkfontein. The anomalies are explained by teeth having dimensions appropriate, within reasonable confidence limits, to populations of H. habilis and A. boisei, as these are known in the East African record.
24319469|The known range of the fish is extended about 100 miles southward.
24319613|Range of the species is extended northward 540 km to Royal Oak Swamp off Lockwood Folly River.
24319520|A community of coral reef fishes in the Boca Raton Inlet was found to be stable despite changes in temperature, salinity and turbidity due to tidal flux. Exceptions were the parrotfishes (Sparisoma spp.) which migrated in with the ocean water and left when the tide ebbed, and the surgeon fishes (Acanthurus bahianus) which became inactive and hid during the outflow of intracoastal water. An intertidal wall was found to house many dusky damselfish (Eupomacentrus fuscus) which defended their temporary territories with vigor.
24319495|An electrofishing and seining survey of a 70-80 yr old oxbow lake and an adjacent section of the Escambia River in northwest Florida yielded 29 species of fishes in the lake and 58 species in the adjacent river. Electrofishing results indicated different abundances of individuals of species common to both areas. A decrease in number of species corresponds to a decrease in habitat diversity in the oxbow lake.
24321082|Surveys for bats using mist nets and acoustic detectors were conducted in Martin and St. Lucie Counties, and the extreme northern section of Palm Beach County, Florida from 20002002. Mist nets were set on 36 nights for a total of 360.0 total net hours, with an overall capture rate of 0.19 bats/net hour. Five species of bats were captured including evening bats (Nycticeius humeralis, n = 36), Brazilian free-tailed bats (Tadarida brasiliensis; n = 17), Seminole bats (Lasiurus seminolus; n = 10), northern yellow bats (Lasiurus intermedius; n = 3), and eastern pipistrelles (Pipistrellus subflavus; n = 2). Bats were captured in all natural communities, but higher capture rates were recorded in ruderal/disturbed habitat. Evening and Seminole bats were captured at a greater frequency in natural areas, while Brazilian free-tailed bats were primarily associated with ruderal areas near structures. Acoustic detections during the survey indicated a higher activity rate in open, early successional or ruderal habitats than indicated by capture success. Bat activity was documented throughout the year, though a limited winter sampling period was conducted.
24319386|The Georgia Institute of Technology is currently engaged in a wide range of solar energy research projects funded by ERDA, NSF, NASA, USDA, and other agencies. A major agricultural applications project is developing several types of low-cost, but effective, solar collectors for farming use. A complete home heating and cooling system is being installed on the campus; one large solar heated and cooled building is completed and another is under construction. A new type of fixed mirror concentrator, which has been operating since last summer, is undergoing continuing testing and improvement. The largest research effort at Georgia Tech is directed toward central station power generation; projects include the installation of 400 KW solar steam plant on campus, development and testing of a 5 MW thermal storage unit, and design of the United States solar thermal test facility. Extensive involvement in international programs has also been a highlight of Georgia Tech's solar energy efforts. Cooperative efforts are underway or proposed with ten other countries including France, Italy, Algeria and Canada.
24320213|Cavity tree and vegetative characteristics of red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis) colonies from 5 wildlife management areas in southern Florida are summarized. On the average, trees utilized for cavity excavation were shorter, smaller in dbh, older, and more widely-spaced than elsewhere in the species' range. Cavities were most commonly found in slash pines (Pinus elliottii var. densa). Colony areas were sparsely stocked, with little or no midstory. Poor growth conditions, extensive timber harvesting and historic timber management practices explain the current condition of red-cockaded woodpecker nesting habitat in this area.
24321990|We investigated the size-frequency distribution of a population of Luidia clathrata (Say) at Courtney Campbell Causeway in Old Tampa Bay from 1971 to 1972 and from 2006 to 2009. An abrupt increase in mean size (arm length from center of disc to arm tip) from 48 to 71 mm occurred between November and December 1971, probably from migration. In contrast, mean arm length increased gradually from 36 mm (June 2006) to 77 mm (November 2008). Although other cohorts might have been present during this period, they might not have been documented because of intermittent sampling. Increase in size was slow over periods of consecutive monthly sampling, suggesting low availability of food. Small individuals were infrequently encountered, suggesting recruitment occurred elsewhere. Maximal mean arm length of L. clathrata at this site was ca. 100 mm. The size-frequency distribution of the population of L. clathrata in Old Tampa Bay has not changed over a 40-yr interval despite human perturbation.
24320484|Firesboth prescribed burns and lightning strikesare common phenomena in the United States, particularly in the south. However, there have been few attempts to examine long-term effects of artificial or natural fires on small non-game mammals. Published reports of the effects of fire on mice of the genera Peromyscus and Podomys are summarized herein. Most papers described response of P. maniculatus, whose numbers increased on burned areas in forests and grasslands. Responses to fire differed among other species and habitats.
24321094|A new locality record for Anopheles grabhamii (Diptera: Culicidae) is reported from No Name Key, Florida. Twenty adult female specimens were collected from May 2003 to January 2004. This species is sympatric with Anopheles albimanus in the Florida Keys and appears to be more abundant in the cooler parts of the year.
24319718|Shells from the reef shoal environment were abraded in different experiments. These experiments were conducted in the surf zone to a quartz sand beach, a carbonate beach, a wave tank, and a tumbling machine. Abrasion rates were also measured on certain corals using a tumbling machine with sand-size carbonate grit. The results of these experiments showed an expected low breakdown of particles using carbonate grid than quartz sand and chert pebble, and that abrasion may by the major factor of breakdown in the back-reef open sand zone.
24320760|This second paper follows one on the first stage (Delumyea et al., 1997) of a search for the source of the anomalously high rate of lung cancer in Duval County, Florida, the subject of 66 studies conducted over a thirty year period are reviewed. It is shown that interest in air quality issues has always been high but has varied over the study period. Concentrations of the six "criteria pollutants" requiring monitoring by the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency since 1976 in Jacksonville are compared with those of nine other comparably- sized cities in the United States-two on the east coast, two on the west coast and five in the "heartland". It is shown that Jacksonville is actually among the cleanest cities, at least as regards the six criteria pollutants.
24319519|An ultrastructural study was conducted of the granulocytes of the toad Bufo marinus. As in higher forms, three kinds of cells were observed: neutrophils, eosinophils and basophils. The granules and other subcellular components compare somewhat to mammals but further studies of this locally abundant animal are required.
24320403|Several colonies of exotic primates are known to exist in Florida. This study was undertaken to report on the existence of the semi-wild colony of squirrel monkeys at the Bartlett Estate in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida and examine the behavioral characteristics of these animals. The Bartlett monkeys are compared with wild troops in South America and with provisioned animals at Monkey Jungle, a tourist attraction in Miami, Florida. Many similarities were expected since squirrel monkeys are known to perform a number of rather stereotypical activities (i.e. penile display). These types of activities were observed, but there were also deviations from the reports given for other troops.
24321215|Fecal pellets from 40 Lower Keys marsh rabbits (Sylvilagus palustris hefneri) were analyzed to determine the food habits of this endangered subspecies. Two grass species (Sporobolus virginicus and Spartina spartinae), one succulent shrub (Borrichia frutescens), and one tree species (Laguncularia racemosa) made up over 70% of diets. With some exceptions, S. p. hefneri fed on the plant species that are most abundant in its habitat. Unlike other rabbits and hares, the major components of Lower Keys marsh rabbit's diet did not significantly vary between seasons, sexes, and sites.
24320160|The floodplain marsh of Blue Cypress Lake, in east-central Florida, was examined to determine the spatial pattern of the vegetation and its relationship to hydrologic conditions. Visual observation and direct gradient analysis of shoreline vegetation indicated six floristic zones. The sequences of biomass maxima of common species and their distributional limits with respect to elevation suggested that this zonation was a result of a complex-gradient in long-term hydrologie factors caused by topographic relief. Beyond the lake shore, on the marsh flat, the zoned pattern was replaced by a mozaic of communities similar to those of large areas of the Everglades. That portion of the mozaic accounted for by communities dominated by Cladium jamaicense (sawgrass) and Panicum hemitomon (maidencane) apparently did not result from hydrologie factors. This was suggested by the sharp borders typically found between these two communities and by the low topographic relief, and consequent uniformity of hydrologie conditions, of the marsh flat. Fire may be the major effector of pattern for these communities by the following mechanism. Maidencane, and it's associated species, rapidly colonize areas where dense stands of sawgrass were destroyed by intense fire and then inhibit establishment of sawgrass seedlings. Sawgrass reclaims these areas, through vegetative reproduction, as a slowly moving front which monopolizes space and light.
24320269|Frequency and distribution of tar balls in plankton samples from the Western Caribbean are described. Thirty-eight percent of the plankton samples was polluted with the highest frequency of pollution being west of Jamaica in an area of convergent currents.
24320100|As populations increase, disposal of man's biological wastes poses increasing threats to man's health through contamination of potable water sources with chemicals and pathogenic organisms. We have addressed the latter and more specifically, the virus problem. Data accrued in laboratories and in the field related to virus survival in the terrestrial environment are reviewed.
24321663|A hydrodynamic model is used to simulate exchanges between Indian River Lagoon and Atlantic shelf waters, and between Indian River Lagoon and Mosquito Lagoon, during the four-year period from 1993 to 1996. Exchanges are in response to wind stress forcing, tidal and nontidal variations in shelf water level and freshwater outflow from 16 drainage canals. Wind forcing is similar from one year to the next, but the timing and magnitude of freshwater releases vary considerably. St. Lucie Inlet is highly responsive to the magnitude of freshwater runoff, most of which arrives through the St. Lucie Estuary. When low discharge into the St. Lucie Estuary coincides with northward wind forcing, a nontidal inflow through St. Lucie Inlet can persist for several weeks to several months. At times of high discharge into the St. Lucie Estuary, most of the outflow occurs through St. Lucie Inlet, but outflow through Ft. Pierce Inlet increases as well. In three of the four years of the study, outflow is greatest through Ft. Pierce Inlet. Model results for all four years suggest a net outflow through Haulover Canal that is of the same order of magnitude as the outflow through the three inlets.
24319510|The unusually cold weather during January, 1977, resulted in fish mortality in waters of the Indian River Lagoon system, Brevard County, Florida. Air and water temperatures for the area are presented, and 30 fish species affected by the cold are listed. Since 1856, 16 cold-induced fish kills have been reported from Florida waters, averaging one per decade. Ecological aspects of cold weather fish mortality vary according to species.
24319864|An extensive ichthyoplankton sampling program was conducted in Naples Bay, Florida during the period of June 1983 to January 1985. Fourteen larval snook, Centropomus undecimalis, were collected during the course of sampling. Larvae ranged from 4.4-7.0 mm standard length and all exhibited complete notochord flexion. All larvae were taken during two 24 h periods in July of 1983 and 1984. Snook larvae were collected on a flood tide within five days of a full moon, and 86 % were associated with the bottom. A significant relationship was found between larval size and the salinity of capture (r = -0.67; P = 0.01; N = 13), indicating the occurrence of larger larvae in waters of lower salinity. The Centropomus larvae collected did not comprise a significant portion of the ichthyoplankton of the area, contributing less than 0.05 % to the total number of fish larvae taken from Naples Bay.
24321935|The decorating behaviors of the spider crab Libinia dubia are examined. This species is well-known for attaching environmental materials to hooked setae on the exoskeleton and camouflaging its appearance. Little is known about the ability of spider crabs to select materials that match the environment. The decorating behaviors in the field and laboratory were documented in terms of the quantity of each decorating material, location and percent coverage of decorations, and color of decorations in association with the color of the environment. Libinia dubia used all available materials to decorate but used filamentous algae as a decorating material most often. Smaller individuals decorated more than larger individuals, while males and females decorated equally. Spider crabs actively changed decorations but did not always select materials that best camouflaged themselves in terms of color and matching their environment. There may not be selection pressures for recognizing color and instead, the selection of materials may be based on the types of materials that adhere best to the hooked setae. Disruptive camouflaging to look "less like a crab" and break up the outline of the body may be the function of decorating, and not to match the environment in terms of color.
24319903|The Anastasia Island cotton mouse appears to have been gone from Anastasia Island for several decades, but this status had not been acknowledged previously. A clear statement of the survival status of this subspecies is confounded by the problematic state of knowledge of its taxonomy. If its range is limited to Anastasia Island, the taxon is extinct. If the range includes Cumberland Island, Georgia, only the former population is extirpated. Though the mechanism of loss from Anastasia Island is unknown, much of the coastal forest habitat of this animal persists but is occupied by exotic black rats (Rattus rattus).
24320719|Chemical analyses of Tampa Bay sediments in previous surveys have indicated that some regions of the estuary were contaminated with mixtures of potentially toxic chemicals. Laboratory tests of 165 sediment samples were performed in 1991 and 1992 to determine the relative toxicity of Tampa Bay sediments. Sediments were collected throughout the estuary to provide a broad representation. Two tests were performed with all of the samples and a third was performed with approximately one-half of the samples. The incidence of toxicity differed widely among the three tests, indicating apparent differences in their sensitivity. The different tests indicated overlapping, but different, patterns in toxicity. Overall, the data indicated that samples from the northern portions of Hillsborough Bay were the most toxic, notably those from Ybor Channel and adjacent waterways. Other areas in which highly toxic samples were collected included Bayboro Harbor, the mouth of Allen Creek, and lower Boca Ciega Bay off Gulfport. The survey was intended to represent conditions throughout an estimated 550 km2 area. Approximately, 80% of this area was estimated to be toxic in the most sensitive test, whereas approximately 0.08% was toxic in all of the tests performed.
24321447|We conducted surveys of natural area managers in south Florida concerning management of Old World climbing fern (OWCF), Lygodium microphyllum (Cav.) R. Br. Managers reported that OWCF poses the greatest threat to natural areas in south Florida, especially in isolated areas where herbicide treatment is limited to aerial application. Foliar sprays, or cut and spray, are the most common methods of herbicide application. Glyphosate was reported as the most commonly used herbicide. Managers reported that the limiting factors in controlling OWCF are time limits/other duties, lack of personnel, and limited funding. Respondents also reported that biocontrol agents may represent the best long-term hope for control of the fern. However, the general consensus of the respondents was that an integrated approach is needed to control OWCF on a landscape-wide level. This integrated control approach would include biocontrol agents, effective ground and aerial herbicide treatment, dedicated field crews, regular monitoring and surveys, adequate funding, early detection methods, coordination among public agencies and private landowners, and the development of alternative treatments including combinations of management techniques such as herbicide application, prescribed fire, and mechanical treatments.
24321150|We describe patterns of mammalian herbivory and examine possible fitness consequences of herbivory on Hypericum cumulicola, an herbaceous perennial endemic to Florida scrub. We noted the presence or absence of mammalian herbivory on 1841 H. cumulicola individuals, from 23 populations in two study sites. At Archbold Biological Station, we found the presence of herbivory to be positively correlated to the number of conspecific neighbors, and negatively correlated with time-since-fire. At Arbuckle Tract of Lake Wales Ridge State Forest, presence of herbivory was affected by habitat (scrub or roadside) and negatively associated with the number of conspecific neighbors. We performed a clipping treatment on naturally occurring H. cumulicola individuals to simulate mammalian herbivory. The results indicated that H. cumulicola appears to undergo compensatory regrowth following defoliation. The one-year fitness consequences of herbivory appear to be neutral although the long-term fitness consequences of herbivory on the perennial H. cumulicola can not be known from this study. We hypothesize that in addition to disturbance tolerance (through increased regrowth rate), patchy distribution and low density may reduce the impact of mammalian herbivory on H. cumulicola.
24320511|The intertidal volume of Florida's Indian River lagoon is investigated to quantify the range of values occurring over a one-year period of time, and to determine the nature of this temporal variability. Intertidal volumes are calculated for the lagoon as a whole, and for three sub-basins defined by the lagoon's three inlets. A one-year simulation indicates that 38.7  106 m3 of water enters and leaves the lagoon on an average semidiurnal tidal cycle. The effective intertidal volume, representing the net exchange, cannot be determined from the historical data base of salinity. The range of 12.6-71.7  106 m3 is due more to diurnal inequalities than to differences between spring and neap tide conditions. The northern part of the lagoon, with 65% of the total surface area, contributes only 9% of the intertidal volume. The southern part of the lagoon has 18% of the surface area, but it contributes 63% of the intertidal volume. Harmonic analysis shows that the M2 constituent is the principal tidal constituent throughout the lagoon. In the northern segment, semidiurnal constituents are damped less than diurnal constituents, and the form number is about 1.5. Elsewhere, the form number is approximately 0.5.
24321131|Neurochemical analyses were conducted on whole brain extracts from dominant and subordinate males of the brown anole, Anolis sagrei. The brains of dominant males contained significantly higher concentrations of catecholamine neurotransmitters such as dopamine and norepinephrine, while exhibiting a lower level of acetylcholinesterase activity. Concentrations of the neurotransmitters, serotonin and gamma amino butyric acid, were significantly higher in the brains of subordinate males. The role of hormones and neurotransmitters in the mediation of agonistic behaviors and dominance in reptiles and other vertebrates is discussed.
24319453|Among 60 female rats fed milo, those on high tannin diets weaned fewer offspring and had lower feed efficiency with or without added sulfate.
24321726|Many studies advocate the use of riparian areas as corridors for facilitating movement of species between habitat patches. A small scale study was designed to test the use of such corridors by rodents using a six month trapping regime in a floodplain and immediately adjacent xeric habitat along the Hillsborough River in Florida. Minimum number alive was used for population abundance and probability of survival was calculated using program MARK. The data suggest that one species, Peromyscus gossypinus, is able to utilize floodplain habitat to a greater extent than the two other most abundant species in the adjacent uplands, Sigmodon hispidus and Ochrotomys nuttalli. This supports the conservation capability of the riparian corridor, designated as a greenway, for P. gossypinus, but not for O. nuttalli and S. hispidus.
24320634|Circulating indoor air of 730 residential homes within the southeastern Florida region was examined over a three year period (1980-1992) for the presence of culturable airborne fungal propagules. Investigations involved the exposure of 2.5% malt extract agar to ventilation air streams emanating from HVAC (heating-air conditioning-ventilation) units. Cladosporium spp. (72%), Penicillium spp. (45%), and yeast spp. (38%) were the most common taxa identified during this study period. Some 54% of the homes investigated had fungal isolates that remained unidentifiable (sterile hyphae), and 8% of the homes sampled were negative for fungi.
24320762|A total of 414 gopher tortoise (Gopherus polyphemus) burrows on 11 separate sites in Lake Buena Vista, Orange County, Florida were investigated using a camera system to add to our understanding of the vertebrate commensal community. One hundred sixteen vertebrates of seven species were observed. A commensal was located, on average, in one of every 3.6 burrows. Eighty six percent of observed commensals were gopher frogs (Rana capito), which were observed on average in one of every 4.1 burrows. Gopher frogs were equally likely to be found in active and inactive burrows and less likely to be found in abandoned burrows. Remaining species were equally frequent in active, inactive, and abandoned burrows. Effects of local and landscape characteristics on the commensal community were evident, but no significant correlations were detected between the number of commensals and the size of the site, number of burrows on a site, burrow density, or the distance to water suitable for amphibian breeding.
24320053|Historical documents, aerial photography and on-site studies have been used to document vegetation changes on the quarter-section where Pine Jog Environmental Sciences Center is located. Data indicate that the entire Pine Jog region is undergoing secondary succession. All analyses show that the original vegetation was wet prairie, marsh and low hammock. Due to lowering of the water table by drainage, many of the wet prairies have changed to pine flatwoods. Frequent burning shortly after the turn of the century reduced diversity in the remaining wet prairies and marshes. The disturbance caused by drainage and fires has enhanced invasion by exotic plants, particularly Schinus terebinthifolius and Melaleuca quinquenervia.
24319515|Cypress trees were more successful than pines and hardwoods in surviving a fire which destroyed 42% of the trees in two cypress dome ecosystems. Cypress trees had comprised nearly half the trees in the domes, which had been drained for several years. After the fires, an average of 89% of the trees were cypress, 9% were hardwoods, and 2% were pines. Greatest mortality was in the center of the dome, where organic matter was deepest.
24320473|The Asiatic clam, Corbicula fluminea, was observed in 4 fully-flooded cave systems along the Suwannee River drainage, with densities of 2820 individuals per m2 measured in one of the caves. This is the first record of corbiculid clams occurring within flooded caves.
24319958|The first specimen of the little brown bat taken in Florida was recorded 5 miles north of Niceville in Okaloosa County on August 16, 1984. It is an adult male taken in a mist net, and extends the known geographical range of Myotis lucifugus southward from its previous known range in Georgia and Alabama.
24320373|A discussion of historical and modern habitats and animals is given along with the recent history of the site. Plants known from the area are listed and their frequency, endangerment and introduced or native status given.
24321390|A waterway system of lakes, ponds, and canals lying inland from the coast in Palm Beach County is separated from the present-day barrier island chain and lagoon system by a series of high sand ridges. These ridges, and the waterway behind them, are thought to represent an ancestral barrier island/lagoon system formed during a higher stand of the sea. Evidence for this would include the topographic and geologic similarity of the ridges and the barrier islands, indications on the high sand ridges that sea level stood higher here in the past, and the presence of gaps between the ridges where major tidal inlets or rivers may have once existed.
24320220|Several common methods to measure benthic oxygen demand were compared using measured and literature data. An in situ respirometer technique, a laboratory core-uptake technique and a laboratory flow-through system technique were compared on sand and organic sediment in Lake Washington, Florida. In situ uptake rates were significantly higher than core-uptake rates, and this difference was greater for highly organic sediment than sand sediment. Measured and literature uptake values for in situ respirometer and core-uptake techniques with organic sediment were compared and resulted in a relationship (r = .99; P<.01) of the form: in situ uptake (g O2/m2-hr) = .036 + 1.16 core uptake (g O2/m2-hr). In many cases both core-uptake and in situ respirometer techniques under estimate oxygen consumption, due to difficulties in obtaining correct water velocities over the sediment surface. In the flow-through system studies, sediment oxygen uptake varied considerably with flow rate and a significant logarithmic relationship (P<.01) was obtained with Lake Apopka, Florida organic sediment. Measurement techniques that simulate field flows are the most accurate, such as the flow-through system or the in situ tunnel respirometer technique.
24319808|Assessment of sexual dimorphism in human skeletal remains is a major concern in paleodemography and forensic anthropology. This study is an attempt to develop a new visual sex determination technique based on the morphology of the posterior ilium and the sacroiliac joint. The sample is composed of 17 males and 10 females representing contemporary Americans and Asiatic populations. The analysis of the sample population is based on the anatomical variation between the sexes in the structures of the iliac tuberosity, the postauricular sulcus and the postauricular space formed by the articulation of the ilium to the sacrum. Results of the analysis indicate that the postauricular space, smaller in males, seems to be the most reliable structure for determination of sex. This is followed by the postauricular sulcus, a structure commonly present in females. The iliac tuberosity is the most varied structure and yet such a variation seems to be inherent in females rather than in males, the latter sex being uniform in shape and size.
24320672|The local distribution of ball moss seeds and individuals (Tillandsia recurvata) was characterized on sand live oaks (Quercus geminata). The majority of seeds occurred either on horizontal branches or on the abaxial side of oak leaves; the remainder were distributed on vertical branches, adult ball mosses, or cobwebs. Seed distribution was highly clumped, with a third of the seeds occurring in clusters of two or more seeds. Few seeds occurred on lichen-covered branches. Of the seeds occurring on horizontal branches, 70% were located on the lower surface, 18% on the side, and only 12% on the upper surface. The distribution of ball moss individuals on horizontal branches paralleled the patterns of seed colonization, with the majority of the plants occurring on the undersides of horizontal branches. The high similarity between seed distribution patterns and adult distribution patterns suggests that ball moss distribution patterns may be largely dictated by where the seeds land and attach.
24320436|Two cohorts of south Florida slash pine seedlings and saplings that had invaded seasonal ponds were followed to determine mortality due to high water table or fire. The invasion of slash pines into seasonal ponds appears to be checked primarily by episodic high water tables, although fire can cause high mortality to pines in densely grass-covered seasonal ponds. Fire temperatures in dense grass-covered seasonal ponds were comparable to those attained in adjacent flatwoods.
24319762|An historical and holistic approach to delineating and analyzing changes in the Northern Welsh diet is presented. The Welsh diet is seen to have undergone some major transitions over the centuries, principally due to emerging socio-economic ties with external markets, and an indigenous development of transportation, political, and commercial structures. These factors have mediated the harsh environmental influences of the region upon the Welsh subsistence base and social system. Contemporarily, the Welsh diet is more diversified, stable, and nutritionally-balanced as a result of these historical developments.
24321043|This report describes for the first time the pathologic findings associated with mortality in 17 Atlantic bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) which stranded in the Indian River Lagoon (IRL), Florida, between February 2001July 2002. The cause of death could be determined in most necropsy cases, which demonstrates the importance of performing gross and microscopic necropsy examinations on freshly stranded marine mammals. Causes of death in decreasing order of frequency were infectious/inflammatory disease, cachexia, asphyxiation, degenerative central nervous system disease and traumatic injury. In cases of inflammatory/infectious disease and cachexia, multisystemic disease was common, which reflects the complex and dynamic processes associated with death. Dermatologic disease was present in nine cases. In many cases, the combined histologic pattern of skin, lymphoid and other lesions suggested a state of altered immunologic homeostasis and subsequent immunologic dysfunction. Understanding the pathologic features associated with mortality of stranded IRL dolphins is important for the future management of this species and provides an insight into the health of the IRL ecosystem as a whole.
24320738|The illegal dumping of used motor oil is an environmental hazard with global ramifications. Bioremediation is a process that utilizes microorganisms to convert contaminants to less harmful materials. This study sought to determine if a water-soluble mutagen was a by-product of this process. The first of six tests simulated a dumpsite of used motor oil. A mixture of hydrocarbon-degrading bacteria biodegraded the oil for twelve weeks. The amount of oil that had been biodegraded was calculated through a Total Recoverable Petroleum Hydrocarbon (TRPH) test. A Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbon (PAH) test measured decreases in the amounts of twenty-six hydrocarbons. In most samples, the level of naphthalene dropped within the first two weeks, and was almost completely gone by the third week. An Ames (Salmonella mutagenicity test) assay detected frameshift mutagens during the first two weeks. These results coincided with the decline in naphthalene levels. Thus, the data suggest that the biodegradation of naphthalene produced a putative mutagen.
24320493|A cave fauna kill was observed within the aquatic cave system at Peacock Springs, Suwannee County, Florida following inundation by flood waters of the Suwannee River early in 1991. Populations of the pallid cave crayfish (Procambarus pallidus), the yellow bullhead (Ictalurus natalis), the American eel (Anguilla rostrata), and the Asiatic clam (Corbicula fluminea) were affected. Following the kill, an oligochaete worm, family Tubificidae, colonized the cave with a mean density of 744 individuals per m2.
24319514|Three species, Chenopodium glaucum L., Erucastrum gallicum (Willd.) O. E. Schulz and Potentilla reptans L., not previously known from Florida have been found in Dade County.
24321217|An annotated bibliography is given of studies published between 1986 and the 1st quarter of 1998 of possible methods to predict/monitor or manage harmful algal blooms. Prediction/monitor methods include satellite imaging and absorption signatures. Management methods include mechanical controls, predation, infection, and treatment by natural and synthetic chemicals.
24320246|An extensive survey of southern Florida revealed a limited, coastal distribution of the mangrove mosquitofish (Gambusia rhizophorae). However, discovery of the species in collections from Cuban fresh waters indicates that it is not salinity-limited. Laboratory studies determined the low-temperature tolerance of the species to be 17C (Baumgarten, 1949). The winter, low-temperature isotherm for southern Florida at this temperature intersects all furthest-known points north and west of the species' distribution. Temperature limitations to distribution may be controlled by fertility which, for the mangrove mosquitofish, is known to be correlated with temperature.
24321198|A 1.5 m deep channel incised into the Tamiami Formation near Lehigh (Sec. 10, T. 44 S., R. 27 E.) in Lee County, Florida contained a Blancan-age (Pliocene) vertebrate and molluscan assemblage. At the base of the deposit vertebrates and a diverse assemblage of mollusks were present. The middle of the deposit contained numerous species of mollusks and corals. Here the predominant molluscan species were Turritella perattenuata, Pyrazisinus campanulatus, Cerithium litharium, Conus adversarius tryoni, Chione elevata, and Carditamera arata. Corals found included Solenastrea hyades, Trachyphyllia sp., poritids, Stylophora affinis, and Montastrea annularis. Near the top of the deposit, a bed occurred containing predominantly the gastropod Pyzazisinus scalatus. The top of the deposit was capped by a thin freshwater limestone containing the mollusk Planorbella disstoni. The Blancan vertebrate assemblage is believed to be between 2.5 to 2 Ma in age and correlates well to the basal Caloosahatchee Formation of Captiva Island, which had a maximum estimated age of about 2.14 Ma.
24319487|Nine avian species were studied during the 1974-1975 breeding season at Moore Creek Rookery, Merritt Island National Wildlife Refuge, Brevard County, Florida. Nesting dates, nest location, internest distance, clutch size, and mortality of eggs and young for double-crested cormorant, anhinga, great blue heron, great egret, snowy egret, Louisiana heron, wood stork, glossy ibis, and white ibis are discussed.
24320020|Two experiments were conducted to determine if an enzyme preparation containing alpha amylase and bacterial proteases would result in improved laying hen performance when supplemented to diets containing various grains. In Experiment 1, the enzyme preparation was added at 0, .05 and .15% to a corn soybean meal basal diet. Experimental diets were mixed every two weeks. Fourteen replicates of 10 hens each were fed the experimental diets ad-libitum during five 28-day periods. Results indicated no significant beneficial or detrimental effect on egg production, feed conversion or egg weights due to the addition of the enzyme. Grains used for feeding comparisons in experiment 2 were yellow corn, milo, Florida 301 variety of wheat and Beagle 82 variety of triticale. Each grain was substituted for 50% of the yellow corn in the basal diet. Diets were balanced to maintain equal levels of sulfur amino acids and lysine while protein and energy were allowed to vary among treatments. Treatments consisted of eight replicate groups of 5 hens and were fed for four 28-day periods. Results indicated that grain source but not enzyme, influenced feed consumption and conversion. Neither grain source nor enzyme statistically influenced egg production, egg weight or egg specific gravity.
24322133|Correlations of Secchi depth to color, turbidity and chlorophyll a within and between eight estuaries comprising the Charlotte Harbor estuarine complex were examined. Secchi depth was used as an indicator of light availability for seagrass growth, a primary habitat in the six Florida aquatic preserves in the Charlotte Harbor region. Six years (19982004) of monthly water quality data from the Charlotte Harbor Estuaries Volunteer Water Quality Monitoring Network were examined. Results showed significant differences between the eight estuaries, two seasons and six years for each of the four parameters. Mean Secchi depth values for the eight estuaries ranged from 1.0 m to 1.8 m. Significant correlations were found between Secchi depth and the combination of color, turbidity and chlorophyll a in six of the estuaries, explaining 26% to 53% of Secchi depth change. Color was the strongest predictor of Secchi depth in 6 estuaries and turbidity was the greatest predictor in two of the estuaries. Based on the results, additional water quality questions have been posed which will be addressed in pending status and trends analyses of the data. The volunteer water monitoring program enhances resource management and community involvement in the six aquatic preserves in the Charlotte Harbor region.
24319920|The traditional precipitation pattern resulting from summer convectional thunderstorms over west central Florida as established by the Byers Report (1948) and other studies remained essentially intact until 1977. By 1978 this pattern showed definite signs of weakening and by 1980 significant variances were observed. The current study examines the precipitation variances over the regions from 1978-1985. An analysis of the meteorological causes for these anomalies is presented to illustrate the possible impact upon the climate of west central Florida.
24320568|Observations of current speed and direction are combined with wind measurements to describe flow through Haulover Canal, connecting Mosquito Lagoon with Indian River lagoon. During a 73-day study period in late summer and autumn, 1989, the instantaneous flow varied from about +30 to -30 cm s-1 and reversed in response to both tidal and wind forcing. The mean flow at the study site was about 4 cm s-1 into Indian River lagoon. Assuming logarithmic and parabolic current profiles in the vertical and across the canal, respectively, measurements are translated into a mean volume transport of about 20 m3s-1. The tide-induced residual volume transport alone was 0.06 m3 s-1. Tidal currents carried water the full length of the canal on each half tidal cycle, except under neap tide conditions. Wind forcing over time scales on the order of one week was the most effective inter-lagoon exchange mechanism. Spectral analysis suggests that under normal seasonal wind conditions the net transport is from Mosquito Lagoon to Indian River lagoon during spring and summer months and back into Mosquito Lagoon during fall and winter months.
24320418|The biological variability of the Indian River lagoon system is huge, whether examined over distances from 100 km to centimeters or times from centuries to hours. Biotic communities in the northern end of the lagoon are temperate, whereas those in the southern part of the lagoon are tropicale.g., Spartina marshes dominate in the north, and mangrove forests and seagrass in the south. The fish fauna of the northern part of the lagoon system is strikingly depauperate when compared to that of the southern. Over distances of only a few kilometers or even meters, species composition can change substantially, and densities can vary by two to three orders of magnitude. The lagoon of a few centuries ago was quite different from the lagoon of today. Large changes in submerged vegetation have occurred within the last decade. Changes between years often far exceed and, thus, obscure "seasonal" patterns. In the same habitat, samples taken one day can be very different from samples taken the next day or night. Some of these differences are explainable; others are not. Temporal and spatial variability, instead of being a disadvantage, can be used to identify the processes that produce the variability. Because of the huge variability of the lagoon system, samples from one area or one time period necessarily give an incomplete and often incorrect picture of the lagoon. It is unjustified to assume that a limited study represents biotic conditions in the entire lagoon. I must conclude that a "typical" or "representative" site or time period does not exist. To be representative, a sampling program must reflect the diversity of the system.
24319715|In 1975, the Florida Legislature adopted the "Local Government Comprehensive Planning Act". This act requires all counties and municipalities to create a comprehensive plan to guide future urban development. I discuss the application of anthropological techniques and skills to the production of a comprehensive plan. I demonstrate the integration of ethnography and ethnoscience into the urban planning process. The perspective of this report is that of an interdisciplinary approach, as practiced through a private consulting firm.
24321650|Submerged aquatic vegetation (SAV) are considered prominent species in the Caloosahatchee Estuary, because they provide both food and physical habitat for other organisms. From 1986 to 1995, manual measurements of SAV blade density and length were made during a variety of freshwater inflow conditions. This research helped define an optimum freshwater inflow range. Institution of management procedures to achieve this inflow distribution would be ill advised without subsequent monitoring of the consequences. Therefore, an operational test of a semiautomated hydroacoustic measurement system for detection and characterization of seagrass was conducted quarterly in 1996. Subsequently, routine sampling began using this technology and in 2004, a manual monitoring program was reinitiated. In this paper, the results of the hydroacoustic surveys are compared with the 19861989 portion and 20042007 component of the manual surveys. The comparison found very similar seasonal and spatial seagrass patterns in canopy height and density. The hydroacoustic technology improves spatial coverage information and can provide a good low-cost monitoring tool to detect change in seagrass resulting from resource management decisions. Minimal ground truthing, or when used in conjunction with traditional manual monitoring, will reduce sampling limitations and provide an accuracy assessment that allows adjustment of the hydroacoustic survey results.
24321159|A total of 33 silica-scaled chrysophytes (Chrysophyceae: 1 Paraphysomonas sp. and 1 Spiniferomonas sp.; Synurophyceae: 23 Mallomonas spp. and 8 Synura spp.) were recorded from 26 water bodies in seven south-west Florida counties using transmission electron microscopy. The number of taxa per location varied from zero to 11. Three new records for Florida were observed.
24319498|Burrows identified as those of the decapod crustacean, Callianassa, occur in cores of the Avon Park Formation taken at the site of the Crystal River Nuclear Power Plant, Citrus County. The formation is a prograding carbonate shoreline sequence characterized by periodic fluctuations in sea level. Most callianassid burrows occur in a zone adjacent to, and transitional from, facies deposited in intertidal-shallow subtidal marine grass flats.
24319642|The water budget computation for Lake Okeechobee is a complicated procedure not only because the existing marsh vegetation zones can transpire large quantities of lake water to the air, but also because of the 2 different types of evaporation pans may affect the accuracy of estimating lake's evaporation. A model that considers the marsh zone evapotranspiration and evaporation pan differences was developed to compute the lake's water budget. This new method was found more precise not only in computing the water budget for Lake Okeechobee, but also to reduce the sum of storage deviation by about 94% as compared with conventional method for the past 26 yr.
24320092|Renovation of a borrow pit twelve months after initial renovation revealed pond invasion by at least seven and possibly eleven species of fish including the potentially noxious walking catfish, Clarias batrachus (Linnaeus), via a shallow drainage ditch connecting with a small stream.
24319927|Comparison of black bear diets in fall indicated a less diverse habitat in Osceola National Forest than in Apalachicola National Forest. Although saw palmetto (Serenoa repens) was the most important food item in Osceola, it was insignificant in Apalachicola diets. A palmetto mast failure would have minimal impact on Apalachicola National Forest bears, but could cause an energetic hardship on bears in Osceola National Forest.
24319500|Multispectral Scanner (MSS) images of Biscayne Bay, Florida from the LANDSAT satellite were examined to evaluate their potential as a means of monitoring turbidity in the Bay. MSS images were found to be useful in detecting and monitoring both man made and natural suspended sediment. Man made sediment plumes emanated from a dredging operation in the principal ship channel connecting Biscayne Bay to the sea (Government Cut). Natural suspended sediment was tentatively identified emanating from a bank of carbonate sediments along the seaward margin of Biscayne Bay (the Safety Valve region). Distribution of both man made and natural suspended sediment is closely related to tidal cycle. The technique employed provides repetitive, synoptic data over large areas and greatly reduces the volume of in situ measurements required to accurately describe turbidity in a near shore environment.
24320722|Tampa Bay has been impacted extensively by human activities. Shoreline modifications, ship channel dredging and high nutrient discharges contributed to a period of particularly degraded bay conditions which lasted from the late 1960s to the early 1980s. This period was characterized by poor water quality (e.g., degraded dissolved oxygen conditions, high fecal bacteria counts and high phytoplankton biomass, with seasonal dense blooms of planktonic cyanobacteria), high drift macroalgae biomass and a large loss of submerged seagrass. However, signs of bay recovery appeared in the mid 1980s following successful management actions aimed at reducing eutrophication through the control of point-source discharges from a large domestic wastewater treatment plant and several fertilizer producing plants. The recovery of Tampa Bay is indicated by a large reduction in phytoplankton biomass, including a substantial decrease in planktonic cyanobacteria, an apparent reduction in drift macroalgae biomass and an increase in seagrass biomass. Specifically as a result of the changes in phytoplankton and seagrass, which are dominant primary producers in the bay, major primary production changes are now occurring. Measured phytoplankton production rates are now near half the rates from the early 1980s. In contrast, estimated seagrass primary production rates have increased by approximately 10 percent since that period. Although the estimated gain in production from the recolonizing seagrass is small relative the loss of phytoplankton production, seagrass biomass is increasing steadily. The current trends of phytoplankton and seagrass production suggest that the trophic structure of the bay is now shifting from a relatively inefficient system with high primary production dominated by phytoplankton production, to a more diverse and efficient system with lower total primary production. Further, the changes now underway will almost certainly affect the energy transfer to higher trophic levels, leading to a restructuring of Tampa Bay trophic dynamics. For example, the shift in primary producers may have adverse effects on communities which have adapted to relatively high phytoplankton biomass and production. On the other hand, the shift should favor higher trophic levels dependent on an abundant seagrass community.
24320416|The ichthyofauna associated with 90 spoil islands along 190 km of Indian River lagoon from Haulover Canal to St. Lucie Inlet was surveyed from October 1987 through July 1988. A total of 25,801 individuals representing 60 species and 32 families were collected, with 25 % of the species of tropical or subtropical origin and the remainder from warm-temperate fauna. While Syngnathus scovelli, Eucinostomus spp., Lagodon rhomboides, and Menidia peninsulae were most frequently captured, the percent occurrence of species varied seasonally due to recruitment of juvenile fishes. A UPGMA cluster analysis separated spoil islands into five distinct groups broadly differentiated by influence from ocean inlet waters but greatly affected by seasonality. When spoil islands were separated into four groups based on tidal excursion values and the number of tidal cycles from an inlet, species richness was significantly (p<0.05) lower around islands not affected by inlet waters (>60 tidal cycles) than around islands moderately affected by inlets (within 3-6 tidal cycles). Juveniles of species that are offshore spawners were most common around islands affected by ocean inlets (1-6 tidal cycles) and were rarely or never found in the northernmost portion of the lagoon (>60 tidal cycles). In contrast, lagoonal spawners were generally more common around islands moderately or slightly affected by tidal action (3-60 tidal cycles). In general, spoil island ichthyofauna is similar to the ichthyofauna from other littoral areas within Indian River lagoon. Seasonal recruitment of juvenile fishes indicates the importance of spoil islands as nursery habitat. Finally, distance from ocean inlets appears to affect ichthyofauna distribution around spoil islands.
24321176|We document populations of the introduced African rainbow lizard (Agama agama africana) in Homestead, Miami-Dade County; Hollywood, Broward County; Palm City, Martin County; Punta Gorda, Charlotte County; and Sanford, Seminole County. The Homestead and Punta Gorda populations have been established for over 10 yr and have expanded at least 0.5 km from the point of introduction. The Palm City population has been established since 1999 and the Sanford population since 2000. All agamas were observed in urban or suburban situations perched on walls, rooftops, bridges, rocks, sidewalks, curbstones, or trees. We collected 33 voucher specimens from five populations 28 March 200211 March 2004. Maximum clutch size and maximum snout-vent length (SVL) of male and female A. a. africana in Florida exceeded those in native Nigerian populations. All adult females (94 mm SVL) collected MayAugust contained 518 vitellogenic follicles or oviductal eggs, but a female collected on 19 September was not gravid. Monitoring should be conducted to determine whether the species might eventually invade natural habitats and its potential impacts on native wildlife species.
24320136|An experiment was conducted to determine if calcium in the sediment, which accumulates in poultry waste lagoons, could be used in laying hen diets as a source of calcium for egg production. The sediment used for this study was obtained from two locations within a lagoon, located on a layer farm in central Florida. The farm had been operational for approximately 10 years. Two hundred laying hens, in peak production, were fed either a corn-soybean meal basal diet or the basal diet supplemented with the lagoon sediment. Based on the sediment's nutrient analysis it was added to the diet at a level to furnish approximately 50 % of the total calcium. No significant differences were observed between treatments in egg production, feed consumption, feed efficiency, egg weight, or egg specific gravity. Thus, it was concluded that poultry lagoon sediment can furnish calcium for laying hen feeds.
24321118|The maze learning ability of adult females of the wolf spider, Trochosa parthenus (Chamberlin) was investigated using a shock-avoidance protocol. Adult females demonstrated the ability to learn a relatively complex maze over an eight day training period. The number of blind alley errors decreased significantly, from a mean of 91.2  9.4 on day 1 to 15.2  3.2 on day 8. There was also a significant decrease in the amount of time required to run the maze (from 50.6 min to 10.4 min) over the same training period. This experiment represents the first demonstration of complex maze learning in lycosids. The adaptive significance of learning in spiders is also discussed.
24319928|Digestive efficiencies and consumption rates were determined for a West Indian manatee consuming water hyacinths (Eichhornia crassipes) and lettuce (Lactuca lactuca). The manatee's estimated in situ consumption rate of water hyacinths was low for a mammal of its size, but consistent with its very low metabolic rate. The relatively high digestive efficiencies observed in this study (approximately 80% for water hyacinths and 90% for lettuce) were attributed to the low crude fiber content of plants consumed, the manatee's long retention time of forage, and its extensive intestinal tract. In contrast to other large herbivores, the manatee's consumption/digestion strategy may be characterized by slow consumption and passage rates and postgastric digestion of highly digestible forage.
24319404|P. prometheus is reported from shallow water in the Virgin Islands; depth range of the species is 5-550 m.
24320162|Three bluffs exposing Pleistocene sediments occur along the Bells and St. Marys rivers in northeasternmost Florida. These are of close proximity and similar elevation, but possess different sedimentary features. To reconstruct the paleoenvironment of deposition represented by these exposures, detailed studies of the sediment characteristics, sedimentary structures, and fossil assemblages at each site were undertaken. The results suggest deposition occurred in a marine to marginal marine setting with sedimentation proceeding along a prograding shoreline during marine regression. The sedimentary sequences are interpreted to represent an ancient barrier island complex. Trace fossils, particularly Ophiomorpha nodosa, and sedimentary structures permit the recognition of barrier island, tidal inlet, and salt marsh paleoenvironments. The marine terrace elevations have potential significance for better interpreting the sea level and tectonic history of Florida.
24320461|The observation of a ghost crab catching and feeding on hatchling diamondback terrapin in the wild is the first record of an invertebrate predator on the terrapin. Ghost crabs readily fed on injured and dead hatchlings in captivity. The ghost crab and the terrapin are sympatric and syntopic. The ghost crab could be an important predator on hatchling terrapin.
24321872|Estero Bay Aquatic Preserve is a shallow-water estuary which contains a diverse array of natural communities that make it an attractive environment for wading and diving birds to forage and nest. Nest surveys conducted in Estero Bay for the last four decades detect trends in wading and diving bird populations while engaging and educating the public through volunteerism. Brown pelican (Pelecanus occidentalis) nest counts conducted in May show a significant decrease in nesting pairs in Estero Bay; a loss of approximately 5 nesting pairs per year across the record of study. Comparisons of historic April nest counts to modern nest counts for great blue heron (Ardea herodias) show an increase of 158 percent, which represents a gain of 32 nesting pairs between the two time periods. Other species showing increasing trends in nest counts are yellow-crowned night heron (Nyctanassa violacea) and double-crested cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus), while anhinga (Anhinga anhinga) showed a decreasing trend. Species-level analyses of more recent standardized monitoring provide a more detailed view of population trends in the bay including shifts in species composition and peak nesting times. Future analyses should include nesting data collected by other agencies to assess nesting success on a larger geographical scale.
24321643|The road from data collection to science-based policy determinations is not an easy one. Scientists typically want their efforts to be used to improve society. Elected and appointed officials typically want to have good information to guide their decisions. Data without context mean very little. How do we take scientific information and advise officials with certainty regarding courses of action that they should take? The ingredients include:  Collecting the correct data well before the point that the issue requires policy decisions,  Collecting similar data in different locations to compare and set standards and baselines,  Collecting long-term data so that sufficient data points are available to have near certain conclusions,  Selecting proper analytical methods that are defensible,  Setting objectives and standards so that a context may be provided,  Testing conclusions often at management sites,  Providing the information in ways that are meaningful to citizens, the elected officials' constituents, and  Delivering findings to the officials when they need the information. It all begins with the policy decision to fund data collection and analysis in the first place. This process requires a partnership of scientists, citizens, resource managers, and policymakers. It also requires a partnership of local, state, and federal government and private companies and organizations. The Charlotte Harbor National Estuary Program (CHNEP) is an example of this type of partnership in action.
24320683|Conflicts over a dwindling potable water supply in the Northern Tampa Bay area have been dubbed the "water wars." The authors utilized a modified policy Delphi method to assist experts in identifying the most effective and appropriate water supply solutions. Policy and resource experts participated in a modified Delphi forum through Internet connections to a Vax CMS mainframe at the University of South Florida, Tampa campus. Automated statistical analysis showed that the experts favored a multi-faceted approach in which conservation was the most important factor in alleviating the potable water supply crisis in the Northern Tampa Bay area.
24319936|Three avian species, previously unknown from the late Pleistocene Bradenton local fauna, are reportedCiconia maltha, an extinct species of stork; Lophodytes cucullatus, the hooded merganser; and Melanerpes cf. M. carolinus, the red-bellied woodpecker. This brings the number of avian species known from this locality to 13, including 2 extinct species.
24321023|Mosquitoes and biting midges were collected from Florida State Parks in Monroe County during 1999 and 2000 with the aid of carbon dioxide-baited light traps. Ochlerotatus taeniorhynchus was the mosquito species most commonly collected, comprising 94.6% of specimens in 1999 and 83% in 2000. Other mosquitoes collected were Aedes aegypti, Anopheles atropos, An. crucians complex, Culex bahamensis, Cx. nigripalpus, Cx. quinquefasciatus, Deinocerites cancer, Oc. infirmatus, Oc. sollicitans, Oc. triseriatus, and Psorophora johnstonii. The only biting midges collected were Culicoides arboricola and C. furens.
24312043|Three species of benthic algae are newly reported for the Gulf of Mexico: Agmenellum quadruplicatum, Rhizoclonium tortuosum, and Vaucheria bermudensis. Range extensions in the Gulf are reported for six other species.
24322278|We measured organic matter and seed content in sediments from six common Florida marsh types: slough, flag, maidencane and sawgrass marshes, shrub swamp, and tree island. These wetlands form a wetland gradient that approximates a trend from wettest (slough) to least wet (tree island) sites. Discerning such a gradient readily from seeds or organic matter could be of significance to paleoecological and paleoclimatic studies. Sediment seed content was established by wet-sieving and the minimum viable seed bank in each wetland type was determined from a seedling emergence study. The study of seeds and seedlings revealed significant differences among some vegetation types. Non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) of both the data for wet-sieved seeds and seedling sprouting revealed a distinct separation of the tree island and slough vegetation types. Sediments of communities of intermediate hydrologies, however, share taxa and their seeds and seedlings formed a continuum between the two hydrologic extremes.
24320486|Individuals of the tropical sea urchin Eucidaris tribuloides were maintained under ambient photoperiod at 22 C, 32 ppt and fed ad libitum for one year. Samples of testes and ovaries were collected and steroid levels were determined via radioimmunoassay every three months. Progesterone and estradiol were detected at pg concentrations in both testes and ovaries. Levels of estradiol were highest in males and females during the fall when gonads were mature. Levels of progesterone remained high in both males and females over the year. This is the first report of sex steroid levels in any echinoid species during the gametogenic cycle.
24319417|The subspecies is described from an isolated high valley in the eastern portion of the Dominican Cordillera Central. Comparisons are made with several adjacent subspecies, the relationships discussed among the new subspecies and related subspecies, and a possible history of the species in this region is postulated.
24320520|Aquashade, a deep blue liquid, is a commercial product sold for the purpose of managing submersed aquatic plants. The annotated bibliography summarizes literature pertinent to the chemistry, toxicology, and mode of action.
24319742|Density estimates are presented for 77 bird species observed in 5 major vegetation types in west-central Florida. Sixty-four transects and plots were sampled seasonally in 1976. Species richness was greatest in the woodland type and least in the cropland; 2 pasture types and a meadow type were intermediate. Bird densities also were greatest in the woodland type followed by the meadow. Species frequenting aquatic habitats were important in the seasonally wet meadow type. Various habitat features and land management practices, which greatly influence bird populations, are discussed.
24321732|We conducted three years of fish surveys in rice and sugarcane fields of the Everglades Agricultural Area. Canals and ditches, as well as rice fields, were included in the survey. We observed 22 species of fish, of which eight were non-native species. Eastern mosquitofish (Gambusia holbrooki) dominated the catch numerically (77%). Other small fishes made up most of the remainder, and included flagfish (Jordanella floridae) (5%), bluefin killifish (Lucania goodei) (2%), least killifish (Heterandria formosa)(4%), and sailfin molly (Poecilia latipinna) (10%). Species composition of fish communities were similar to those found in other studies in south Florida in rice fields and in ditches and canals. While there were a number of non-native species caught they did not dominate the communities in numbers or species richness.
24320394|A large number of sterols has been characterized from marine organisms, and relatively few polyoxygenated steroids have been characterized due to their complexity. The gorgonian Pseudopterogorgia americana, was shown to contain several novel steroids that will be published in this journal. Ample spectral evidence, including X-ray crystallography, has been collected to support the proposed structure of the title steriod.
24319884|By means of electron microscopy, new species of the chrysophyte Paraphysomonas, P. spinapunctata, and the prymnesiophyte Chrysochromulina, C. inornamenta are described. The occurrence of Paraphysomonas butcheri in North America is given.
24320346|Seagrass beds in the Indian River lagoon, Florida, had 3 times the density oj macrobenthic invertebrates found in unvegetated sediments a few meters away. Epifaunal abundance was 13 times greater in seagrass than sand. Most epifaunal species (e.g., amphipods, isopods, tanaids, gastropods and shrimps) were uncommon in the unvegetated sediments, presumably due to their dependence on seagrass for providing habitat, food, nursery area, and/or protection from predators. Not only were macrofaunal densities much higher in natural seagrass than in sand, those animals which were more abundant (primarily the epifauna) were also more heavily preyed upon and thus are trophically more important than infauna. Four 3-mm mesh cages were set up, each within a larger 12-mm mesh cage, 2 in seagrass and 2 in sand to test 1 ) the importance of associated macrobenthos to the local food web and 2) the effect of small decapod predators. After 2 mo the inner cages had the lowest macrobenthos density and the highest density of decapod crustaceans, the animals we intended to exclude. The only animals more abundant in the inner cages were the decapod crustaceans. Because cages with mesh sizes even smaller than 3 mm do not effectively exclude many crustacean predators, we conclude that it is nearly impossible to exclude predators from local seagrass meadows. The grazing epifauna of seagrass meadows forms a major trophic pathway to higher predators via the decapods; such a pathway is lacking in sand bottom communities.
24319560|Field studies indicate that the diversity of macroinvertebrates collected by the multiple-plate sampler is time dependent. Pilot studies to determine optimum exposure period are recommended. Comparisons of samples of macroinvertebrates collected by the multiple-plate sampler and the petite Ponar grab from both lentic and lotic environments indicate significant differences.
24321074|The phytotoxicity of aqueous extracts of cattail (Typha domingensis) towards selected aquatic weeds was studied through the short-term impact of exposure to cattail extracts on the rates of oxygen production by the weeds. Rates were quantified using a dissolved oxygen sensor and a computer-interface system (LabworksII). We determined the average dissolved oxygen concentrations before and after addition of the known amounts of extracts. Results indicate that cattail extracts (610 ppm Corg) inhibit the oxygen production of three of the five plants studied (Vallisneria spp., Elodea canadensis, and Myriophyllum spp.). Cabomba caroliniana showed only slight inhibition, and Hydrilla verticillata (Royle) was unaffected.
24319731|Variation of physico-chemical characteristics of a water column is important in any study on nutrient trace metal-ion removal and lake restoration practices. Diurnal variation of selected parameters was studied under a waterhyacinth (Eichhornia crassipes) mat as well as at an open water site in a lake in southwest Florida. Some similar trends were observed at both sites. Temperature pH, and dissolved oxygen peaked at 1400 hr, whereas inorganic carbon, iron, and PO4-P peaked between midnight and 0200 hr. Some site differences were also observed: (1) dissolved inorganic carbon was usually higher under the mat than at the open water site, (2) iron concentration exhibited a bimodal increase under the mat from 1400-2200 hr and 0200-0800 hr, but increased at the open water site from 2400-0600 hr, (3) PO4-P increased from 2200 hr to midnight under the mat, but increased from midnight until 0600 hr at the open water site. The correlations between the data for each site indicate that a more rapid turnover of iron occurs within the micro-environment of the waterhyacinthcovered water column.
24319881|The sampling system consists of a portable peristaltic pump, a sampling line, a filter holder, a sample jar and a Teflon in situ pore water sampler. Each component can be rigorously cleaned and sealed prior to use in the field. Laboratory tests showed that the sampling system contributed no detectable trace metal contamination to the sample. Iron analyses had a relative standard deviation (RSD) of 4-14% and 5-18% for analysis of manganese in estuarine field tests.
24320733|Thirty-four reptile and 19 amphibian species were observed or collected from January 1990 to March 1995 on Buck Island Ranch, an altered wetland in Highlands County, south-central Florida. Of eight exotic species established near the ranch, four were found on the ranch and two others were predicted to colonize the ranch. The number of native species was similar to freshwater wetlands and hammocks of the Everglades in southern Florida and the Katharine Ordway Preserve in north-central Florida. Most species were found in ditches, pastures, and ponds, but also in canals, hammocks, buildings, and orange groves. Results of this survey, although qualitative, indicate that habitats of this altered landscape were tolerated at some level by the same herpetofaunal community found in natural analogs of Florida and that there is potential for ranches to support a resilient herpetofauna.
24321063|A total of 36 silica-scaled chrysophytes (Chrysophyceae: 4 Chrysosphaerella spp., 5 Paraphysomonas spp., and 3 Spiniferomonas spp.; Synurophyceae: 18 Mallomonas spp., and 7 Synura spp.) was recorded from 33 water bodies in nine south-eastern Florida counties using transmission electron microscopy. The number of taxa per location varied from 0 to 16. Seven new records for Florida were observed.
24321164|A simple numerical basis for estimates of microquanta of mass and 1/6 charge in elementary particle sub-structures is observed in tables of Standard Model (SM) data. An equation for these relations yields whole particle masses and conserved charges consistent with the SM for the quarks, for their anti-quarks, and for the leptons. This arises in the equation by a sixth power of the number of the micro-components, with systematicly derived departures from a constant coefficient of two thirds of the mass quantum (with modification for one case.) This observation of a new type of power law basis for systematic regularity in particle structures parallels to a degree some recent theory attempts. The link to empirical data for the general class of theoretically hypothesized sub-particles provides a new point of departure for further particle definition, and for study in the proliferation of particles and on the means of neutrino mass oscillation. There are further predictive implications.
24320306|A limnological investigation of Lake Istokpoga, Highlands County, Florida, and its major tributary streams was conducted during October, 1976 through June, 1977. Significant loading of the lake with nitrogen and phosphorus by the influent streams was discovered. Planktonic primary productivity in the lake was high, with an average carbon-fixation rate of 0.8 gm/m3/day. Nutrient enrichment bioassay experiments were conducted several times during the study period with seasonably variable results indicated. Generally speaking, primary productivity in the lake appeared to be phosphorus-limited. Most of the data indicated that the lake was eutrophic.
24320062|Sea lettuce was grown in a circulating sea water system in 5, 10, 15, 20, and 25% sewage effluent in Tampa Bay sea water and in unenriched sea water as a control. Plants in 5, 10, and 15% effluent grew progressively faster than controls, but all plants in effluent exhibited higher nitrogen content than the controls. In all experiments ammonia was rapidly reduced to a low level or zero, while phosphate was not taken up more rapidly than it was regenerated.
24319873|Fifty-one Rivulus marmoratus were found under partially submerged logs and less frequently in leaf litter in intertidal areas of Big Mangrove Key, Florida, and 2 were found in identical habitat on Grand Cayman, British West Indies. Gut contents of 21 R. marmoratus consisted of insects, arachnids, copepods, polychaetes, vegetable debris, and fish scales. Aquarium maintained fish captured terrestrial prey close to the water's edge, but ingestion occurred exclusively in the water. At 19-20C R. marmoratus showed a significant (P<0.001) tendency to seek terrestrial shelter. Fish also left water to escape antagonists and to move from diminishing to full pools of water. During terrestrial forays, R. marmoratus burrowed through leaf litter with slow, serpentine movements and effectively escaped danger with sudden and forceful tail flips, and became quiescent during extended terrestrial stays. A review of R. marmoratus literature is provided.
24320639|Mark-recapture experiments on a closed population of spotted skunks (Spilogale putorius) on Canaveral National Seashore (a barrier island) were conducted in 1973-74 to obtain a population estimate; we achieved geographic and temporal closure by choosing a 16-km linear section of the island and a 10 day trapping period. The closed model Mbh in the computer program CAPTURE yielded an estimate of 96.0  11.2 skunks, yielding a density of 40 skunks/km2, much higher than the only previous estimate from Iowa.
24319630|A survey of the soil algae from 5 acid sands and one neutral sand in Alachua County during 1972 yielded 72 species. The genera Ulothrix, Stichococcus, Chlorella, Chlorococcum and Schizothrix were the most common, and they occurred in nearly every soil sample.
24320649|The density of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) on the Osceola National Forest (ONF) in northern Florida is low, whereas exploitation pressures are high. Proper habitat management is critical for enhancing population growth and will require knowledge of the quality of pine flatwoods forages. This study evaluated the nutritional quality (crude protein [CP], phosphorus [P], and in vitro organic matter digestibility [IVOMD]) of common gallberry (Ilex glabra), lowbush blueberry (Vaccinium myrsinites), and greenbriar (Smilax laurifolia) throughout an annual cycle on the ONF. Mean annual CP and P content and IVOMD of the 3 forage species combined was 7.5%, 0.063%, and 42.5%, respectively. Nutritional quality of the forages differed among months for all 3 parameters (P < 0.001), and was deficient year-round with respect to the requirements of white-tailed deer. Low nutritional quality of forages during spring and summer may stress adult females during gestation and lactation, and contribute to the low productivity and fawn survival characteristic of deer populations in pine flatwoods habitat. The combination of prescribed fire in both dormant- and growing-seasons should be explored as a strategy for enhancing the growth and quality of deer forages in nutrient-poor pine flatwoods habitats.
24320074|An immature chain pickerel was collected in Santa Rosa Sound, Florida, at a salinity of 3 after heavy rain storms.
24320201|Benthic Testacida from sediments of Lake Washington were studied. The Testacida were extracted using standard foraminiferologic techniques. The determined taxa were photographed using scanning electron microscopy. Twenty-one taxa were found. The majority were cosmopolitan and the most abundant were Difflugia pyriformis and Centropyxis compressa. The Testacida guild was similar to that previously studied in other American and European lakes. However, the type and size of the species were different from those found in soil and mosses.
24319683|Vascular obstructions in xylem vessels of roots taken from trees in late stages of young tree decline were observed with the transmission electron microscope. The vascular obstructions are composed of filaments which vary in diameter, appear to branch, and consist of concentric, alternating electron-dense and electron-transparent layers. Serial longitudinal sections as well as cross sections failed to reveal any biological ultrastructure which correlated with that of known fungal hyphae, actinomycetes, mycoplasma, or bacteria.
24319535|A two-year study reveals Echinaster has a more pronounced annual cycle of organ index change than reported previously for other starfishes. It is greatest in males and appears to he related to a major fall accumulation of nutritional reserves anticipating spawning the following May.
24319705|Reasonable and moderate innovation in the curriculum can be useful, but such innovation should not be allowed to reduce academic standards and interfere with the correct evaluation of student performance. A proper mix of traditional education along with limited and proven innovative concepts should yield far better results than much of the change that has so often been employed in recent years under the label of innovation.
24321129|The Nitroblue Tetrazolium Reduction Test (NBT) was used to analyze mouse peritoneal neutrophils for in vitro oxidative burst activity. Neutrophils were collected from BALB/c ByJ mice following thioglycollate challenge, washed and re-suspended in Hanks Balanced Salt Solution. Neutrophils were exposed to 110-1, 110-5, 110-10, 110-15, and 110-20 g/ml concentrations of lipopolysaccharide, carrageenin, or dextran sulfate, in vitro, and evaluated for changes in oxidative burst reactions. Different concentrations of challenge agents were compared to non-treated saline controls. Results demonstrated that the agents produced significant (2090%) increases of formazan-containing neutrophils in a concentration-dependent fashion. These findings show that mouse peritoneal neutrophils can be used to study cell oxidative burst activity due to exposure to compounds released by infectious organisms.
24320211|During the past 3 yr, meteorological anomalies have occurred with considerable regularity along the west coast of Florida. On 13 January 1981, a well-developed area of high pressure over southern Mississippi resulted in one of the most severe freezes recorded in the 20th century. Temperatures ranging from -7C in the southern part of the region to -13C in the northern section were officially recorded. Substantial agricultural damages were sustained, with the greatest financial losses occurring in the citrus industry. In addition, the freeze damaged many areas of natural vegetation, especially mangrove.
24319809|Selected soils in swamps of the Apalachicola, Florida estuary were sampled and analyzed. Three great groups. Sulfihemists, Sulfaquents, and Fluvaquents were found. These soils were wet, moderately acid, high in clay content, and low in salinity. Kaolinite, vermiculite, quartz, and mica were the principal clay-sized minerals. Decisions concerning agronomic utilization of these soils should be carefully made because of their high potential acidity, low-bearing strength, and frequent flooding.
24321079|During the late 1970s and '80s an extreme cold front followed by an outbreak of White Band Disease destroyed most of the staghorn reef formations in Dry Tortugas National Park (DTNP), Florida, and dramatically altered the reef structure. We studied damselfish assemblages on patch reefs off Loggerhead Key in DTNP during April 2002. We found that dusky (Pomacentrus fuscus), cocoa, (Pomacentrus variabilis), and yellowtail (Microspathodon chrysurus) damselfishes were common on patch reefs and had respective densities of 0.33, 0.32, and 0.06 fish/m2. Cocoa damselfish was the most widely distributed species, possibly due to its ability to recruit to the reef as juveniles, and to colonize more demanding reef habitats. Spatial partitioning across reefs was observed among the three damselfishes with monospecific aggregations occurring on 55% of plots and multi-species aggregations on 45% of plots and, weak vertical partitioning patterns were only observed for dusky damselfish. Density, distribution, and vertical stratification of territorial damselfishes differed from pre-1976 data reported from Alligator and Looe Key reefs, Florida, suggesting that these fishes may adjust population assemblages to accommodate catastrophic alterations to their physical habitat due to events such as cold or disease.
24320983|The Florida Exotic Pest Plant Council (EPPC) has been publishing a list of invasive plants in the state since 1991. The 1997 list includes 29 species with the climber life-form. A historical summary of the introduction of these species, and the place of the life-form in the ecology of North America is presented. The conclusion is drawn that this life strategy is less common in North America than in the tropics. That factor, plus several not examined, has contributed to many species of climbers becoming invasive pests in native Florida plant communities.
24321414|During OctoberNovember 2002 and September 2003, 156 hatchery-reared common snook, Centropomus undecimalis (Bloch) (434680 mm TL, 6722445 g) carrying dart and elastomer tags were released in two mosquito impoundments south and north of Fort Pierce Inlet, Florida. Three were seen, and four were caught (three by hook and line, one by seine) as far as 42 km from their release sites. All seven were in schools of wild snook of similar size, and were reported to behave like and look as healthy as the wild snook. The three caught by recreational fishermen on hook-and-line were among wild snook being caught on the same baits: live mullet (Mugil sp.), live shrimp (Penaeus sp.), and artificial shrimp. Nine of 15 snook with ultrasonic transmitters were tracked within the impoundments (including one up to 361 d). Six with transmitters (making a total of ten tracked by that method) were located outside the impoundments up to 8 km from the release sites. One of those was in an estuarine channel 1 km away from the release site during 2537 d, was detected at the mouth of a freshwater creek 5 km away at 59 d, and was caught and released by a fisherman under a lighted dock in a finger canal 3 km away at 349 d. That fish then was monitored by a receiver and seen by the first author during 353354 d, under the same dock where it had been caught and released. All tagged snook seen, caught, or located were in areas preferred by wild snook.
24319534|Captured, aquarium held, sea urchins of a presumably normally herbivorous species were observed on several occasions to catch and eat live fish. Perhaps food deprivation stimulated the predative behavior.
24320597|Four additional species of introduced tropical trees have naturalized in Dade County, Florida. The species are Alstonia macrophylla (Apocynaceae), Pittosporum pentandrum (Pittosporaceae), Ixora arborea (Rubiaceae), and Harpullia arborea (Sapindaceae). Brief descriptions, herbaria records, ornamental use, and potential spread are discussed.
24320386|Study of the plants in the Fakahatchee Strand State Preserve during the period from 1978 to 1987 has resulted in a list of 477 species in 119 families. This species richness is unusual because it includes, within a matrix of temperate plant communities, a variety of tropical species found nowhere else in the coterminous United States. Plant communities are discussed and mapped, and a list of species is given.
24319478|Procedures for analysis of light curves of eclipsing binaries appropriate to the Russell Model and employing, at most, very modest computer formulations, are applied to a series of observations of EE Pegasi and to a series for CM Lacertae. Attention is called to: (1) a suggested improvement in the process for determination of the reflection coefficient; (2) the importance of estimating the reasonableness of the ellipticity coefficient as derived from the Fourier approximation representing the between-eclipses portion of the light curve; (3) the usefulness of a very simple, quasi-least squares method of refining tabularly the Russell-type parameters obtained directly from the Princeton Nomographs; (4) the numerical measure of interdependence of parameters which may be provided by plots of the proportioning factors , , , ; (5) the need to recognize that, probably because of the plethora of parameters involved explicitly or implicitly, "refinements" of not greatly different preliminary sets may not always converge to a single final set, whatever the particular method used.
24320291|A white and several abnormal green turtle hatchlings, Chelonia mydas, are reported from the first recorded nesting, in 1980, of the species in North Carolina and north of Georgia.
24320598|Selenium is both an essential trace element in the diet, and it is also toxic at low levels (5 ppm). Anthropogenic activity, such as burning coal for electric power generation, or manufacture of semiconductor electronic parts release selenium into the surrouding environment. This study correlates trends in selenium concentrations with some of the industrial activity near the waters of McKay Bay and Palm River, Hillsborough County, Florida. A previous study carried out in 1976 provides a comparison. Similar trends were found in both studies. An area near the mouth of Palm river and the north end of McKay Bay was found to have the highest levels of selenium in both studies.
24320022|Atlantic white cedar (Chamaecyparis thyoides (L.) BSP.), an often dominant swamp-forest tree of the eastern seaboard, is represented in the southern part of its range by two isolated populations in north peninsular Florida and more extensive but discontinuous stands along the northern Gulf coast from central panhandle Florida to Mississippi. These southern stands have been surveyed from the standpoint of distribution, autecology, habitats, taxonomy, and protection. Selected populations are described in detail, including listing of associated species. Most populations occupy valleys of small streams through deep sandhills, where soils are perennially moist or wet from constant seepage of groundwater but are only briefly, if at all, inundated. White cedars have also colonized boggy pine flatwoods near the coast in panhandle Florida, following the suppression of fire in recent decades. Soils may be peaty or sandy, and are circumneutral where charged by spring water. Fires are less frequent or at least less destructive than in the northern range of the species, due to the incised topography, the constantly moist soil and leaf litter, and the intermixture of relatively poorly burning vegetation of other species. The infrequency of fires favors a mixed forest of white cedars, dicotyledonous hardwoods, and sometimes palms, rather than the uniform stands typical of white cedar in northern stands. Herbaceous species are numerous. Reproduction of white cedar typically occurs during gap succession, rather than after crown fires. Stand age is therefore uneven, in contrast to northern stands. White cedars were found to be essentially unharmed by insect or fungal pests, with lightning appearing to be the major cause of death of mature trees. Utilizing lightning ground-flash frequency data derived from engineering studies, a scale of probabilities is derived for estimating lightning-strike intervals for trees protruding above the forest canopy. White cedars in mixed-growth southern stands commonly show suppression in rate of growth that may continue for 75 years or more. As the tree attains a position in the canopy, the growth rate increases. Canopy trees in a Florida stand, measured over a 22-year span, indicate an annual diameter increase of 0.68 cm; this value is greater than recorded elsewhere for the species. Trunk diameters were observed to approach, but not surpass, 100 cm (except for two Alabama patriarchs, which are about 150 cm. dia.). Height was recorded to 27 m. Age probably does not exceed 190 years (except the Alabama giants, which may reach 275 years). White cedars were observed or reported in association with Parnassia grandifolia, Salix floridana, Taxus floridana, and other endemic or rare species of the Gulf coastal plain. Pieris phillyreifolia, an ericaceous vine, was found to grow beneath the bark of white cedar and produce its shoots at heights to 13 m. In peninsular Florida, a large white cedar has been used by successive generations of black bears as a territorial marker, by claw lacerations of the bark. A variety of white cedar, C. thyoides var. henryae (Li) Little, differentiated largely on the absence of foliar glands, is recognized from five counties in western Florida and adjacent Alabama.
24319954|A live, juvenile Atlantic hawksbill turtle (Eretmochelys imbricata), entangled in synthetic line and sargassum, stranded on the ocean beach near Melbourne Beach, Brevard Co., Florida on 14 July 1983. After two months in captivity, during which time the left front flipper was lost, the turtle was tagged and released at Sebastian Inlet, Florida. This is the first record in the primary literature of a juvenile hawksbill from Florida coastal waters.
24321193|Florida scrub is a globally imperiled ecosystem with high endemism. This study examined the distribution of 38 plant species associated with the Florida scrub habitat in 20 remaining fragments in Pinellas, a county that has experienced a 99% reduction in scrub area since 1900. In particular, we identify if natural history (dispersal type, life cycle strategy, life-form, habitat specificity) and biogeographic (range type) characteristics associated with selective extinction can be used to predict rare species by incidence in remaining fragments. There were few associations or significant differences among natural history characteristics and rarity in Florida scrub. However, anemochory was negatively associated with species richness suggesting that fragments with low species richness contain a high proportion of wind-dispersed species. The biogeographic characteristic of range type (Florida endemic vs. non-endemic) was the best predictor of species incidence at a local scale, and regional scale distributions of species in Florida were associated with local scale distributions in remaining fragments. A conservation assessment of species and remaining fragments is discussed relating to protection status of all sites and focusing on sites with high diversity of scrub species, scrub obligates, and endangered species.
24319601|A new species of Sphaerodactylus is described from the Pennsula de Saman and east central Repblica Dominicana. Brief notes are given on the ecology of the species, and comparisons between it and other sympatric congeners are made.
24319991|This ethnographic study focuses upon the interactions of residents and staff at an alcoholism treatment facility for chronic public inebriates. Through direct observation, interviewing, and perusal of statistical material in agency files, both resident and staff cultures were examined. Fundamental findings suggest that residents and staff are two separate subcultures interacting in a specific treatment milieu. Tentative conclusions suggest that an ethnography using the methodology of participant observation can lead to an understanding of the complex cultural patterns and processes involved in the treatment of alcoholism at a domiciliary for homeless men.
24321453|An initial survey of Pelican Island National Wildlife Refuge (Sebastian, Florida) was conducted during 20032005 to determine butterfly species richness and abundance. Species richness ranged from 17.7 to 29.5, monthly, and 33 to 34, annually. 14 species were recorded within the refuge during every survey month, the most frequently encountered of which were Ascia monuste and Junonia evarete. Overall, a total of 35 different butterfly species were observed within the refuge over 32 sampling dates between January 2003 and October 2005. Surveys were not conducted during September and October 2004 due to damages to the refuge from Hurricanes Frances and Jeanne. Mangroves, the dominant terrestrial habitat surveyed within the refuge, as well as disturbed areas, maintained the greatest species richness and abundance followed by hardwood hammocks.
24320122|Florida's Right To Know Law is a landmark piece of 1985 legislation for its potential for prevention of accidents and illness that may be work related. For some scientists the law will be an imposition on a free investigative spirit. For others, the law will merely reassure the worker that he/she is practicing good health and laboratory safety for himself and those for whom he/she is responsible. The best way to determine the steps needed to be compliant, is to review the law itself at least once and then have a copy available for periodic referral purposes. The law intent is to protect the health and safety of the worker through informed consent. Workplace exposures to toxic and hazardous substance may cause disease or aggravate existing disease, and should be taken seriously.
24321593|We present evidence of continued take of the Suwannee cooter, Pseudemys concinna suwanniensis. Exploitation of this sexually dimorphic, state-listed species is particularly damaging to populations because it is focused on the large adult females. Our results illustrate the need for increased conservation actions for this imperiled riverine turtle. Recommendations include the development of effective education and enforcement programs.
24320232|Six additional records of Clemmys guttata, including the first report for St. John's County, supplement the spotty distribution of this species in northern Florida as summarized by Berry and Gidden (1974).
24321107|An investigation of the ichthyofauna inhabiting the restored mangrove wetlands of Bill Baggs Cape Florida State Park, Miami-Dade County, Florida, was conducted during consecutive wet and dry seasons. Twenty-eight locations were sampled using seines. Measurements of water quality, depth and benthic plant coverage were also taken. A total of 25 fish taxa were found: the most frequently occurring were the epibenthic species goldspotted killifish (Floridichthys carpio), yellowfin mojarra (Gerres cinerus) and rainwater killifish (Lucania parva,). Seasonal differences in frequency of occurrence were restricted to three fishes: rainwater killifish, great barracuda (Sphyraena barracuda) and striped mullet (Mugil cephalus). Fish diversity (taxonomic richness) among the oldest mangrove habitats was significantly higher than among more recently planted habitats. Most of the fish-habitat correlations examined were weak; however, those with water temperature, depth and dissolved oxygen were significant. The presence of the subadult gray snapper (Lutjanus griseus), bluestriped grunt (Haemulon sei urns) and sailors choice (Haemulon parra) indicates that the area may be functioning in support of species with fisheries value.
24319532|The development of papillae and the fine structure of gametes from six species of the green coenocytic alga, Caulerpa are described. The gametes are of uniform structure and resemble other green algal flagellates. Each gamete has a pair of flagella, apically inserted, a single central nucleus, and a basal plastid. A rough endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi bodies, and mitochondria are present.
24321803|The tiger shark, Galeocerdo cuvier, is the largest predatory fish in tropical waters. Due to its wide-ranging movements, diverse diet and perceived potential threat to humans, the feeding behavior of this species has received significant attention in the scientific literature for over 40 years. Such studies have identified various prey items and feeding strategies for tiger sharks worldwide, and new insights into the life-history (i.e. movement, diet, reproduction) of this currently threatened predator are useful in conservation and management initiatives. Here we describe observations of tiger shark scavenging on a terrestrial avian species off the Florida Keys and its potential connection to several large-scale bird die-offs within the region.
24321668|Laboratory experiments were done to examine the potential for low salinity to limit the distribution of colonizing fragments of a potentially invasive macroalga to the Indian River Lagoon, FL. Caulerpa brachypus fragments were subjected to gradually decreasing salinities to simulate a realistic range and duration of exposure that fragments would experience entering the lagoon via an oceanic inlet. Plants were exposed to and held at a range of decreasing salinities starting at 35 psu for one-week intervals. After one-week exposure periods, salinities were reduced by an increment of 5 psu. Upon reaching 20 psu plants became flaccid and began to rot. We conclude that C. brachypus is unlikely to occur in regions where salinities fall below 20 psu, but that populations could successfully be established in the immediate vicinity of inlets where salinities are higher. While plants survived at salinities of 25, 30, and 35, psu a greater percentage of fronds became senescent, frond lengths were shorter, and widths were narrower at 25 psu than at 35 psu.
24320607|We describe aspects of the natural history of Leiocephalus schreibersii from altered habitat in Barahona, Dominican Republic. We marked and observed 18 lizards in June 1991. Estimates of population size and density were 20  4 and 1/70 m2, respectively. Examination of ingesta from stomachs of 17 additional animals suggested that this species is a generalist-opportunist. The sex ratio (M:F, 20:15) did not differ significantly from 1:1. Snout-vent lengths (SVL) of adult (> 50 mm) males (53-86 mm) were larger than those of adult females (55-68 mm). Adult home range (HR) areas did not differ significantly by sex (M, 22-130 m2; F, 16-53 m2), nor were HR areas correlated with SVL. Activity periods extended from 0900-1600 h. Males were aggressive and demonstrated territorial defense. We did not observe female aggression. Lizards most commonly used a sit-and-wait feeding strategy, but some individuals foraged actively for prey.
24319645|The greatest problem facing the criminal justice system appears to be identification of mental retardation. Upon identification the criminal justice system and mental retardation system argue responsibility for the mentally retarded offender who consequently often falls between the cracks of the 2 systems. Approximately 23,000 persons, or 10% of the nation's prison population are retarded. Prison culture has a negative impact upon development of the retarded offender. Housing the mentally retarded offender in an institution for the mentally retarded is inadequate. Consensus firmly supports the need for special treatment facilities and community-based programs. Several advocacy programs have been implemented to defend the rights of the mentally retarded offender. Funding is desperately needed to support in-depth study and pilot projects in this area of gross neglect.
24322000|Eleven years of monthly water chemistry data collected by volunteers from 18 stations in Choctawhatchee Bay, FL were examined to determine temporal (annual and seasonal) and spatial variation. A nested variance component analysis showed that spatial and seasonal variance in phosphorus, nitrogen and chlorophyll was considerable with station accounting for 49%, 41%, and 23%, respectively and month within year and station accounting for 23%, 9% and 50%, respectively. Plotting salinity, nutrients and chlorophyll versus longitude showed a continual gradient from Choctawhatchee River to the East Pass. This gradient indicated an inflection point at approximately Longitude -86.30 where a large change in depth occurred. Data east of the inflection point showed a rapid change and west a much slower change. Years with the highest river discharge showed the highest nutrients and chlorophyll concentrations. Multivariate linear models using longitude and river discharge as independent variables were constructed that can be used to predict total phosphorus, total nitrogen and chlorophyll and these models accounted for 83%, 79%, and 50% of the variance in the data, respectively. These models take into account both spatial and temporal variability and should be useful in estimating water chemistry for the bay. Without the resources provided by citizen scientists it is unlikely that these data would have been available to develop predictive models.
24319970|On November 16, 1985, a specimen of the crayfish Fallicambarus (Creaserinus) fodiens (Cottle, 1863) was collected from the Escambia River flood plain south of Florida Highway 4, 6.6 km west of Jay, Santa Rosa County, Florida. This is the first identifiable specimen of F. (Creaserinus) fodiens from Florida.
24321826|The growth of Lyngbya (Lyngbya majuscula), a cyanobacterium and a considerable nuisance in the Crystal River, Florida was studied under laboratory conditions. Specifically the cyanobacterium was grown in stoppered inverted 500-mL Erlenmeyer flasks using water from the Crystal River as the control medium. The test medium was prepared using the river water passed over a chromatography column packed with Octolig, a commercially available product consisting of chelating agents covalently attached to high-surface- area silica gel. Octolig was designed to be used for removing transition metals, but work has demonstrated that it is also capable of removing nitrate and phosphate from deionized water or well water. Samples were replicated five times each for test and control systems with measurements taken over a two-week period. There were statistically significant differences between test and control for such characteristics as dissolved oxygen (positive for control, negative for test), wet weight, and pH change. In addition, control samples were characteristically green; test samples were obviously chloretic. The origin of the notable differences was not determined in this study, but the results were sufficiently distinctive as to justify further investigation.
24321834|A survey of the shell-bearing land snails of the Calusa Shell Mound area of Ding Darling National Wildlife Refuge, Sanibel Island, Lee County, Florida is reported. I collected nearly 1000 shells of 31 species, which are identified and correlated with occurrences reported in the literature and collections of three major natural history museums with substantial terrestrial molluscan holdings. An analysis of the taxa collected in this survey and other available records, including meteorologic data, reveals a robust and resilient insular faunule (39 species on Sanibel and Captiva Islands, of which 9 are limited to this survey) and an apparently more diverse fauna for all of Lee County (52 species, 8 limited to this survey). These two assemblages contain an unusual mixture of Nearctic, Austroriparian, Neotropical, and non-native elements. I discuss historic trends in species composition, methods of dispersal, introductions, and extirpations in the context of the findings. Further surveys applying the methodologies employed here (notably the combination of field visual reconnaissance with litter sampling) in different habitats on Sanibel and Captiva Islands promise to elucidate further the terrestrial malacofauna based on statistical and ecological expectations.
24319835|The Briarwoods site was a small prehistoric burial mound in Pasco County. It was excavated by archaeologists from the University of South Florida in 1980. Analysis of artifacts recovered from the burials indicates the site was used during the Safety Harbor period, with a possible late Weeden Island-related component (ca. A.D. 1000-1500).
24320332|Between 1972 and 1980, about 1,800 fish collections were taken from the fresh and brackish waters of the Indian River lagoon system and adjacent Merritt Island in northern Brevard and southern Volusia counties, Florida. All habitat types were sampled and a variety of collecting gear was employed to insure a comprehensive survey of the regional fish fauna. The 139 species collected and 2 species reported in the literature are recorded in an annotated list. Eleven of the species collected had not previously been reported from the lagoon system. Comparison of this survey with that of Gilmore (1977a) reveals that the ichthyofauna in the northern part of the lagoon system is much less diverse than that in the southern part. There are about 337 fish species known from southern lagoon habitats and associated fresh waters and impoundmentsmore than twice the number of species collected in the northern region. The southern fauna includes more primary division freshwater fishes, more reef-associated species, and more species with oceanic and tropical affinities. Absence of many primary division freshwater fishes on Merritt Island is explained by lack of permanent fresh waters there prior to man's presence. Many freshwater species now inhabiting Merritt Island probably have been introduced by man. The reduced number of marine species in the north appears to be the result of the latitudinal temperature gradient, the absence of hard-bottom and reef-like habitats, and the limited number and wide separation of ocean inlets.
24321996|Sexual reproductive success in flowering plants depends on many factors, including breeding system, pollinator services, flower density, and resource availability. We studied the reproductive ecology of Asimina obovata (Annonaceae), a long-lived shrub endemic to pyrogenic Florida scrub, by conducting hand-pollination experiments and pollinator searches. We confirmed a previous study showing that spontaneous selfing is rare in A. obovata, that fruit set is pollinator limited, and that the pollinator guild is dominated by three beetle species. However, we also found that geitonogamous crosses result in high levels of fruit abortion, most likely due to inbreeding depression. Although beetles were the most abundant pollinator, they were often uncommon, especially in female-phase flowers. Habitat fragmentation could limit fecundity in Asimina obovata, because beetle pollinators are necessary but uncommon, and their absence reduces fruit initiation.
24321031|Studies were conducted on the life history and ecology of the Mediterranean Gecko, Hemidactylus turcicus on the University of Tampa campus. Sex ratios did not differ significantly from 1:1. Reproductive females were collected as early as April.The reproductive season for most females lasts approximately 110 days. The first females with oviductal eggs were collected during May 911. About 41 days was required to produce a clutch of eggs. Results show ed that there is sufficient time for up to three clutches per season. Most males were reproductively active between June 9Aug. 20. Mean testes weights were highest from April until July 27, ranging from 13.316.4 mg. Testicular mass decreased in early August. Growth rates for both sexes ranged from 0.86.9 mm/month. The smallest male with sperm in the ductus deferens was 42 mm SVL. The smallest female containing oviductal eggs or yolked follicles was 41.5 mm SVL. Juveniles were observed in early June and July, and occurred in greatest abundance in November. Population densities ranged from 4971463 geckos/hectare. These geckos exhibited low vagility. There was no significant difference in survivorship between males and females, or between juveniles and adults. This lizard is a generalist predator and feeds on a wide variety of arthropods as well as gastropods. Peak activity occurred between 21002359 hr. The minimum distance between any two nests was 25 cm. Large spiders, whip scorpions, cats, bats, and Cuban tree frogs were observed capturing and feeding on these geckos.
44113156|Natural communities near freshwater hydrological features provide important ecosystem functions and services. As human populations increase, forested landscapes become increasingly fragmented and deforested, which may result in a loss of the functions and services they provide. To investigate the current state of forested natural communities in the rapidly urbanizing Tampa Bay Watershed, this study examined a systematic random sample of fixed radius 0.04 hectare (0.10 acre) plots that were located within 15.2 meters of a hydrologie feature. These 85 plots were further stratified based on site legacy, and were categorized into three groups: remnant (43 plots), emergent (23 plots), and altered (19 plots). A hierarchical agglomerative cluster analysis identified plots that were most similar to one another within each group. These clusters were then compared to Florida Natural Area Inventory (FNAI) descriptions of natural community types. A high degree of clusters in the remnant and emergent groups resembled natural community types, but variations in species composition and dominance also occurred. However, zero clusters in the altered group resembled natural community types, suggesting anthropogenic changes to the landscape have impacted natural plant community assemblages. Findings from this study fill a gap in our current understanding of how natural communities in the Tampa Bay Watershed differ from those in a non-urban context.
24321995|This study updates earlier findings regarding changes in the relationship between socio-economic status (SES) and life expectancy at birth in Florida between 1970 and 1990 by adding findings regarding the same changes between 1990 and 2010. Earlier research on SES and life expectancy at birth in Florida found that high-SES populations in Florida gained between at least two and as much as four additional years of life expectancy over low-SES populations between 1970 and 1990. Using a comparison of means as well as dummy regression analysis in conjunction with estimates of life expectancy and socio-economic status (SES), we find that between 1990 and 2010, high-SES populations in Florida experienced higher mean life expectancies compared to low-SES populations. However, low-SES populations showed a greater gain in absolute years of life expectancy than high-SES populations during this time period. This second finding suggests that there is an "upper limit" to life expectancy among high-SES populations and that we might be reaching the biological limit to life expectancy among these populations, while low-SES populations still face social limits to life expectancy. This research has implications for current national health policy with regard to the U. S. Department of Health and Human Services' key goal to eliminate health disparities by 2010, and it demonstrates that in Florida this goal was not achieved.
24321038|A pedestrian survey of snakes was conducted for 1022 days on 6 km of rural roads through xeric upland habitats in Hernando County, Florida. Two hundred twenty-eight snakes of 18 species were recorded, 93.4% of which were dead on road (DOR). The southern hognose snake (Heterodon simus) was the second most frequently observed species, and all 39 H. simus were DOR. The local abundance of H. simus was notable, because it has apparently experienced population declines throughout much of its range. Heterodon simus is seldom trapped during drift-fence surveys in Florida, but data on commercial collection for the pet trade indicate that it is still locally common in at least three areas of Florida. Mean annual mortality of H. simus was 2.3/km/yr and for all snakes was 12.8 per/km/yr, despite low traffic volume on the roads surveyed. Two-thirds of DOR H. simus remained on roads for <1 day, although one carcass lasted 12 days. Peak months for H. simus highway mortality were June and November, and hatchlings comprised 96% of roadkills OctoberDecember. Sections of roads bisecting ruderal habitats (lawns, old fields, and improved pastures) accounted for 48.7% of H. simus observations. Heterodon simus can apparently persist in areas of fragmented and altered upland habitats, although cumulative road mortality may be a significant factor, especially for hatchlings.
24320996|Bruner's Sink in Osceola County, Florida, is dominated by giant Bald cypress [Taxodium distichum (L.) Rich.] and Swamp Tupelo (Nyssa biflora Walter). The vascular flora numbers sixty species. This predominantly deciduous wetland forest of cypress and hardwoods over mucky calcareous soils represents a vanishing plant community type in Florida.
24322131|Owing to the catastrophic loss of seagrasses after the 1950s, resource managers in several southern Florida estuaries established water clarity targets to restore seagrass coverage to historical conditions or maintain existing coverage. Recently, analyses of water quality data suggest declining water clarity in some areas of Charlotte Harbor, which may lead to the dramatic impacts to seagrass ecosystems similar to those in other estuaries in Florida. Therefore, resource management strategies for Charlotte Harbor should consider minimum water clarity standards to conserve seagrass resources for the future. This effort provides an optical model to set water quality targets for color, turbidity and chlorophyll a that maintain percent-light-at-depth requirements to achieve the maximum seagrass depth distribution presently observed in seagrass transect monitoring. Analysis of recently-collected water quality data show that in all regions of the harbor, dry season water quality in general met the percent-light-at-depth goals proposed in this effort but less than half the data met the goals during the wet season. The methods proposed here can be refined to better incorporate seasonal and spatial changes in water clarity variables but are an important first step in establishing resource-based water quality targets for the Charlotte Harbor region.
24320135|Two 21-day experiments were conducted to examine the response of chicks to low-level sodium supplementation in drinking water using sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate, and sodium acetate. Birds receiving each of the sources exhibited body weight responses from 25 and 75 ppm levels of sodium supplementation. The growth increase was statistically significant for the 75 ppm treatments in chloride or bicarbonate form. Daily feed and water consumption increased in concert with sodium supplementation.
24320593|Plethodon of the glutinosus complex include the forms grobmani Allen and Neill (1949) and mississippi Highton (1989) which approach each other on the Alabama Gulf Coast. Size, facial/snout proportions, and light-dark pattern elements facilitate separation of the two, known to be distinct in protein electrophoresis. Remarkably, the largely Florida form grobmani extends across Mobile Bay to at least Mon Louis Island, southeastern Mobile County, Alabama. The largely Mississippi form, mississippi, occurs in central Mobile County and adjacent southeastern Mississippi. Nearly ubiquitous habitat destruction over most of Mobile County precluded determination of such alternatives as close parapatry, sympatry, or intergradation between these forms. Most grobmani have a light axilla. In most mississippi the axilla is darkly pigmented.
24320696|A summary of general trends over the past 17 years of water quality data used for the Review and Synthesis of Historical Tampa Bay Water Quality Data, Technical Publication #07-92 of the Tampa Bay National Estuary Program including nutrient, chlorophyll a and salinity data and their relationship with tributary flow regime is presented. Total phosphorus, total nitrogen and chlorophyll a have decreased over the last decade. A positive relationship between tributary flow and total nitrogen was observed for most of Tampa Bay as well as a positive relationship between total phosphorus and chlorophyll a and river flow. However, this latter relationship breaks down after 1984 and was not found for all locations.
24320196|In the Bull Creek Watershed, Osceola County, Florida, vegetation patterns were analyzed in ecological series along three, 2 km-long transects in a 10,522 ha pine flatwoods region. The most common vegetation unit was a sclerophyllous palmaceous, ericoid and quercine shrub association with an occasional canopy of Pinus palustris or Quercus geminata. Across the continua, vegetation changed with topography, moisture regimes and soils. Six out of the ten soil orders in the United States were found: Alfisols, Entisols, Histosols, Inceptisols, Mollisols and Spodosols. A correlation between soil types and vegetation was evident. Upland oak scrub and sand pine dunes, palmetto prairies and savannahs were found over quartzipsamments, haplohumods and haplaquods. Hypericum-grass sinks, cypress domes and ash-cypress-maple swamp forests were located on medisaprists, glossaqualfs, ochraqualfs and argiaquolls. Excessively drained upland soils were low in nutrients while very poorly drained lowland and soils were high in nutrients. Establishment of Spodosols as the most prevalent soil type with concomitant flushing of bases (minerals containing calcium and magnesium) from uplands to lowlands may have coincided with the establishment of the modern pine flora in 5000 BP. The radiation of plant communities, which included the appearance of Gordonia bayheads and Taxodium swamp forests at that time as hypothesized by Watts (1971, 1975), must have been accompanied by the development of new edaphic niches.
24320631|We surveyed commercial organic vegetable and citrus producers using lists provided by the Florida Organic Growers and the Organic Crop Improvement Association, two of the largest certifying agencies currently active in the state. Production practices used by these growers are described, and we examine whether organic nutrient and pest management systems represent viable alternatives for Florida agriculture. Our discussion focuses on the availability and costs of non-synthetic nutrients, issues of scale, and the role of geographic isolation in protecting organic systems. The potential benefits and problems of organic production are considered.
24320428|A significant increase in neural RNA and protein synthesis was associated with avoidance learning and hunting behavior in the spider wasp, Pepsis formosa. Cycloheximideinduced inhibition of protein synthesis significantly impaired learning. The cerebral ganglion was associated with avoidance learning and hunting as indicated by the degree of incorporation of H3-labeled uridine into RNA in specific protocerebral regions including the corpora pedunculata and protocerebral bridge as compared to those found in nontrained controls. Specific behavioral components of the hunting sequence exhibited behavioral plasticity. Cellular and molecular mechanisms of learning and memory and their relationship to brain function in arthropods are discussed.
24320746|Computer-generated Maucha diagrams were used to demonstrate changes in the relative proportions of eight major ions in lakes located in northwest Hillsborough County, Florida. The change in chemistry of the lakes is ascribed to large-scale augmentation of lakes with water pumped from the Floridan aquifer. The ionic diagrams show notable increases in calcium and bicarbonate concentrations for artificially augmented lakes.
24320305|Juvenile Tilapia mariae were collected in southeastern Brevard County, Florida. A description of the area, probable methods of introduction, and reasons for probable establishment, are given.
24320973|Two species of Dichondra are recorded in Florida. Dichondra carolinensis is the southeastern U.S. endemic, ranging from Virginia to Texas. Dichondra micrantha is reported for the first time in the state. Although D. micrantha has been in Florida for over 60 years, it has been confused with the native species. This adventive species has been spread around the world as a lawn weed and grass substitute; it grows in lawns throughout the state.
24320594|A total of 707 freshwater and estuarine benthic invertebrate taxa and allied macrofauna was collected from the Suwannee River and estuary during five separate surveys between 1979 and 1993. Relative percentages of taxa occupying seven vertical habitat zones were as follows: surface-dwelling, 8%; hyperbenthos, 7%; epibenthos-section I, 14%; epibenthos-section II, 48%; embenthos, 18%; hypobenthos, 1%; and epizoos/parasites, 4%. Arthropoda numbered about 70% of the total taxa, of which, 56% were Insecta of the orders (in descending order of prominence) Diptera, Coleoptera, Hemiptera, Odonata, Ephemeroptera, Trichoptera, and Plecoptera. The arthropod Crustacea composed 11% of the total taxa, and about one-half of these were Decapoda. Molluscan taxa composed 12% of the total and, of these, the number of Gastropoda taxa was about three times the Bivalvia. Annelid taxa contributed 15% of the total taxonomic richness. The exclusively estuarine taxa, 28% of the total, were split almost evenly among arthropods, molluscs, and annelids; however, in fresh waters, arthropods far exceeded the diversity of the other two phyla. Of the 3% other taxa, one-third were allied macrofauna such as Hemichordata and Chordata. The taxonomic composition is indicative of clean water conditions throughout most of the ecosystem.
24320159|Freezing air temperatures during the periods 25-26 December 1983 and 20-23 January 1985 resulted in hypothermal stress and mortality of several aquatic poikilotherms in the upper Indian River lagoon system, Brevard County, Florida. Twenty-three species of fish representing 15 families were found stressed or dead in the 1983 freeze and nine species representing 8 families were observed in the 1985 freeze. One hundred and fifty-two sea turtles were rescued from lagoonal waters in January 1985 of which 145 were Chelonia mydas (green turtle), and 7 were adult Caretta caretta (Atlantic loggerhead). Numerous indigenous plant species of tropical and subtropical origin were extensively damaged. These included Avicennia germinans, Laguncularia racemosa, and Rhizophora mangle. Exotic plant species such as Schinus terebinthifolius, Casuarina equisetifolia, and Melaleuca quinquenervia were also damaged.
24319603|Mosses and liverworts were collected from 20 sites representative of the range of biological communities. Whereas only 2 mosses were previously known for Brevard County, 29 mosses, 19 hepatics, and 1 hornwort were found.
24319729|It is proposed that the stromatoporoids previously considered extinct, are equivalent to the silico-calcareous sponges, based on ultrastructure, existing today in the tropical reef environment and that they can be used as a particular paleoenvironmental indicator of the reef crest and patch reef zones. The proposed reef interior environment explains the various shapes of the organism, bedding, and other structures found in the paleoenvironments of the stromatoporoids.
24319702|Chamaesyce deltoidea, with its infraspecific taxa, and Chamaesyce pinetoram were studied with regard to morphology, distribution, habitat, and taxonomy. Analysis of the data supports the ranking of the taxa as discussed by Burch (1966). In addition, the endangered status of the taxa is discussed, and a recommendation is made for the addition of C. pinetorum to the endangered list. Thirty-two specimens were examined; 15 for C. deltoidea and 17 for C. pinetorum.
24320443|An index has been developed that indicates the magnitude of exotic aquatic plant coverage in Florida public waters. Data to develop the index came from the Florida Department of Natural Resources, Bureau of Aquatic Plant Management. The index is defined as the relative proportion (fraction  1,000) of total water body acreage that is covered by two exotic aquatic plants, waterhyacinth [Eichhornia crassipes (Mart.) Solms] and hydrilla (Hydrilla verticillata (L.f.) Royle). For the years 1982-1988, the index values ranged from 42 to 53. The total waterbody acreage during that time period was about 1.3 million acres; 15 to 26% was covered with one aquatic plant or another, and the fraction covered by hydrilla and waterhyacinth was substantially smaller, about 4-5%. Two other indices are considered: total exotic aquatic plants and aquatic herbicides.
24319811|Based on Merton's theory of social structure and anomie, I hypothesize that father custody will occur predominately among middle-class divorced couples. Father custody is viewed as not only a rejection of traditional parental roles, but also as a rebellion against cultural values concerning the role of the family in society. A sample of 101 divorced fathers in Central Florida was used. The hypothesis that father custody would occur more frequently among the middle class was supported. Of 5 variables examined only religion indicated a possible influence on custody. The findings are compared with other information on family change and the importance of class structure as a determinant of family structure is upheld.
24320951|The effect that humic acid (HA) has on the solubility product constant (Ksp) of calcite (CaCO3) and gypsum (CaSO42H2O) was determined. A flame atomic absorbance spectrometer was used to measure the aqueous phase calcium concentration in the solutions. The solubilities were measured as functions of humic acid concentration and pH. Calcite solubility was determined to be a function of [H+] and humic acid was determined to have a minimum effect on solubility. Gypsum solubility was unaffected by humic acid under normal environmental conditions but decreased at basic pH(9) and high humic acid concentration (10 ppm).
24319773|An estimate calculated at the Florida Gulf Health Systems Agency indicated that the prevalence rate of hypertension was higher for the Tampa Bay Area (22.1%) than for the Nation (18.1%). It was my intent to develop recommendations for a model hypertension-diseasescreening program in the Tampa Bay Area to reduce the rate of heart disease. Data for the study were collected from national statistics, available literature and local survey administered by the Agency. The results indicate that the goals of the locally-based programs are not specified, no target population is defined by most of the programs, and there is poor data collection and inadequate record keeping. Recommendations directed toward a more effective and accessible program according to the community's needs are discussed. The study demonstrates the valuable perspective and assistance an applied medical anthropologist can provide in designing a diseasescreening program.
24319717|Asymmetrical sculpture on a valve is much rarer in brachiopods than in pelecypods. The reason for this difference seems to be that pelecypods are primarily burrowers but few brachiopods burrow. The asymmetrical sculpture on the valve of a pelecypod aids the animal in gripping the sediment while it burrows. In brachiopods the beaks of the 2 valves lie at the center of the posterior margin and point directly toward each other. In pelecypods the beaks most commonly point anteriorly, although many have beaks pointing toward each other and a few have the beaks pointing posteriorly. Anteriorly pointing beaks may also be an adaptation that aids a pelecypod in burrowing.
24322461|I developed a preliminary quadrat-based protocol to survey low density populations of burrows of the Gopher Tortoise (Gopherus polyphemus) and applied the protocol in four upland habitats at Avon Park Air Force Range, Florida in 199798. I randomly selected and surveyed 55 1-ha plots in oak scrub, 23 in sand pine scrub, 53 in pine flatwoods, and 17 in oak hammock. Detection probability was maximized by using 10 transects and multiple observers at most quadrats. Oak scrub had the highest density of burrows per ha (1.47) and sand pine scrub had the lowest density (0.17). Spatial distribution of oak scrub burrows fit the negative binomial distribution. Likelihood ratio tests showed that the best model for all four habitats had a dispersion parameter (k) of the negative binomial that did not vary but did have a variable mean (m). This protocol is appropriate to survey low density populations of any object in situations where distance sampling could be inefficient, and can be improved by conducting double-observer surveys at a subset of quadrats to calibrate detection probability. This approach is supported by two subsequent studies that showed that distance sampling is not efficient in cases where densities of burrows are low and that quadrat sampling may offer advantages over other tortoise survey techniques.
24321195|Encounters with the smalltooth sawfish, Pristis pectinata, in Florida Bay and the Florida Keys were documented by soliciting information from anyone who might have encountered them in these areas. Each person who had information was asked the same series of questions to determine the date and location of the encounter, estimated total length (ETL), and habitat characteristics. A total of 1,632 sawfish encounters occurring between 1990 and 2002 were reported to us (89% occurred between 1998 and 2002). Sawfish were encountered during the day and night. Most sawfish were probably immature when encountered. The smallest sawfish (1 m ETL) were found in 2.4 m of water and virtually all larger immature sawfish (1.12.9 m ETL) were found in 10 m of water. The largest sawfish (3 m ETL) were found in shallow water (10 m) and deeper water (to 122 m). This study is the first to document the regular occurrence of smalltooth sawfish in water deeper than 10 m. A wide variety of habitat types were reported and included mud, sand, seagrass, limestone hard bottom, rock, coral reef, and sponge bottom. Most sawfish encounters in Florida occurred betiveen March and August, though numerous encounters were reported throughout the year. Most encounters consisted of a single sawfish being observed or caught on hook and line, hut groups of 220 similar-sized individuals were also reported. These data support our previous observation that the United States sawfish population is larger than previously estimated, and that sawfish are relatively common in south Florida.
24320284|From October 1975 to March 1978, a study was conducted to develop and field test techniques to mark and track manatees in Florida. Assorted "visual tags", such as freezebrands and spaghetti tags as well as sutures and peduncle straps to hold transmitters, were tested on captives and free-ranging animals. Mark-resighting results were generally unsuccessful because visibility of the marks was generally poor, but one freezebrand was sighted 45 mo after application. Sutured radio tags remained attached for up to 28 da and furnished dive activity data. One manatee was sighted in Brevard County during 3 summers and 1 winter between 1977-1980.
24319621|This study attempted to determine the population status of the Florida black bear, white-tailed deer and two endangered wildlife species, the American alligator and Florida panther in the Everglades Region. Questionnaires distributed to field personnel of the Florida Game and Freshwater Fish Commission and the Florida Department of Natural Resources and interviews resulted in population estimates of 145 black bears and 92 panthers, mostly in Collier County. Nocturnal and diurnal counts show that alligator population trends have been upward in recent years despite the loss of more than 1.5 million acres of habitat. Aerial deer counts both pre- and post-hunting season yield a deer population estimate for the 4.5 million acre Everglades Region of 20,000 with a 1971-72 legal deer harvest of 900 from the 800,000 acre Everglades Wildlife Management Area.
24319511|Six left upper teeth were found in an adult cranium of Megalonyx collected from the Ringold Formation, Blancan, late Pliocene of Washington instead of the usual five.
24319418|A specimen was collected on Marco Island, Florida, from damp peat several hundred feet from the nearest water.
24321247|Humic Substance (HS) samples were collected from twenty-five sites along the Suwannee River. These sites included the Okeefenokee Swamp, several springs and tributaries, and the delta where the river empties into the Gulf of Mexico. Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FT-IR) is used to categorize the relative abundance of the functional groups of these samples. In salt-water samples we identified a relatively intense C-Cl vibration indicating the chlorination of the humic substance. We also measured the vibrational spectra of humic acid with several concentrations of HNO3, KOH and Na4P2O7 over twenty-eight days to optimize our extraction procedure by minimizing condensation reactions.
24319883|The growth rate and iota carrageenan content of an ecotype of Eucheuma isiforme found near Bahia Honda Key, Florida and cultivated in outdoor tanks were observed for 7 months during 1975. Cultivated plants fertilized with 34 M nitrogen and 3.2 M phosphate daily had an average growth rate of 9.8 g salt-free dry matter/m2 of lighted surface area of culture tanklda. Unfertilized cultivars averaged 2.9 g SFDM/m2/day. The average iota carrageenan content, expressed as percent of salt-free dry seaweed weight, of fertilized, unfertilized and wild plants was 53.9%, 56.2% and 61.0%, respectively. Plants from this Bahia Honda population demonstrated a life history characterized by rapid growth in the spring, cessation of growth in the summer, development of tetraspores in the fall, sporulation followed by disintegration of the mature plants in the winter, and germination of the spores the next spring.
24319493|A system is described in which the nutrients in treated wastewater are removed by passing the effluent through a culture of aquatic weeds. The incremental growth of the weeds is fed to a culture of grass carp and fresh water shrimp (Macrobrachium). Projections are made for large-scale nutrient removal efficiencies and the accompanying aquaculture yields in the commercial application of such a system.
24320553|Trees in residential areas have been related to the public health, safety and welfare. Many local jurisdictions across the country have considered and adopted tree planting requirements for new homes. Unincorporated Lee County possesses no regulation for tree planting for most single-family lots. In anticipation of new regulations, tree planting and preservation practices without regulation were tested. On the average lot, over 15 trees were planted or preserved, and over half of these trees were exotic. Planting practices varied between communities within Lee County. Community variation affected the cost effectiveness of regulatory requirements when compared to a public tree planting program.
24320450|Sea urchins (Lytechinus variegatus) from Biscayne Bay were fed controlled rations (5-cm blades) of turtle grass (Thalassia testudinum) every 48 hours over an 11-day period in 1988. The rations of grass consisted of either unblemished (green) blades or decayed blades. Decayed blades had nearly twice as much dry weight as green blades of the same size. Ingestion times for both types of turtle grass were negatively correlated with sea urchin size (bigger urchins ate faster than smaller urchins). Mean ingestion times for the two types of blades were significantly different (decayed blades < green blades). Sea urchins did not show a preference when offered a green and decayed blade at the same time.
24319619|Several autotrophic organisms were grown in phosphate slime wastes. Thiobacillus thiooxidans oxidized exogeneous sulfur to sulfuric acid and effected the liberation of bound phosphate from the slime solids. The particle bound phosphate was converted to a soluble recoverable form by microbial action. Ferrobacillus sulfoxidans and Thiobacillus ferrooxidans oxidized exogeneous iron in the presence of slime but had no effect on the iron in the solids. Iron released by acidification of slime could not serve as an energy source for these iron oxidizing organisms. Microscopic observations indicated that the diatoms Navicula incerta and Amphora exiqua were able to grow and divide in unsupplemented slime. None of the autotrophs tested changed the colloidal state of the slime appreciably.
24319635|Hoplias malabaricus has been released and has reproduced in the Tampa Bay area. It is possible, but improbable, that the only population of this species in the area was exterminated. A summary of the life history and ecological data on this species is presented. It appears unlikely that nonbiotic or biotic factors will prevent its dispersal in southern Florida. Because of its large size and voracious piscivorous feeding behavior, a primary concern is its effects on freshwater game fish populations.
24321811|Our goal for this study was to elucidate the seasonal growth dynamics of bald cypress seedlings. Eight 1-m2 plots were established in Sites 1 and 2 within the tidal floodplains of the Northwest Fork of the Loxahatchee River. Seedling heights in and the electrical conductivity (EC) level of soil outside the plots were measured 9 times at approximately 30-days intervals. Seedling growth rates were found to be slow during either early February to early March or mid-July to mid-December; however, the growth rates were rapid during early March through mid-July. Incremental increases of the seedling heights over time followed a sigmoid curve and were well fitted in a logistic equation with R2 greater than 0.99. The EC level of soil at Site 1 was always greater than at Site 2 except on the dates of March 4 and November 4, 2005. Conversely, the growth rate of the seedlings at Site 2 was significantly greater than that at Site 1. This growth analyses provided a basis for water resources management and freshwater plant community restoration in the Loxahatchee River floodplain.
24320476|Five of the seven species of Hypoxis reported from the United States and Canada are found in Florida. A key for the identification of flowering specimens is presented. The known distribution of each species is mapped and habitat requirements are discussed. Also, a summary of ecological observations for each species is provided.
24320124|A humpbacked oyster toadfish, Opsanus tau, is reported from North Carolina. Although normal when captured in 1984, a severe dorsal and lateral spinal curvature developed during retention in an artificial concrete tank. A six month interval elapsed between tank cleaning in January 1985 and the development of the deformity. Speculation suggests the deformity was a response to drops in water temperatures following severe cold snaps in January and February 1985.
24320372|Fishes of eleven Florida rivers were sampled annually to determine relative abundance, biomass and species richness. The goal of this program was to create a statewide catalog of riverine fish resources and to provide a mechanism for detecting long-term trends in fish populations and communities. Both increases and declines of abundance and biomass were observed in some rivers and baseline data for continued monitoring were established. However, preliminary data do not suggest overall, statewide, declines in riverine fish resources.
24321081|We surveyed the reptile fauna of pine rockland habitat in six Miami-Dade County parks using quadrat sampling in 199697 and time-constrained sampling in 2001. Time-constrained sampling detected similar numbers of reptile species per park as quadrat sampling in one-quarter as much time. We detected only 78 reptile species per park regardless of park size, which ranged from 2.4 to 80.9 ha. Of 15 reptile species found using both survey methods, five are nonnative. The most frequently observed species were the nonnative brown anole (Anolis sagrei) and tropical house gecko (Hemidactylus mabouia), whose population apparently has increased during the five years between surveys. Pine rockland has a higher proportion of native to nonnative reptile species than human-modified habitats in Miami-Dade County. Standing and fallen dead South Florida slash pines (Pinus elliottii var. densa) provide important refugia for many rockland reptile species, but these microhabitats are often destroyed by the periodic fires that prevent succession to tropical hammock. Additional survey methods are necessary to detect uncommon and widely dispersed species, such as large snakes.
24321731|Florida Keys collection records for eight species of chironomid midges are presented. Two species of Orthocladiinae, three species of Chironominae, and one species of Tanypodinae have been collected during routine mosquito control surveillance. Older collections of one species of Orthocladiinae and one species of Telmatogetoninae also are reported.
24322134|Environmental pollutants capable of disrupting endocrine function and impairing hormonally regulated processes such as animal reproduction pose significant threats to the health of aquatic wildlife populations. Unfortunately, broad assessments of endocrine-disrupting activity are difficult to perform for large aquatic ecosystems because of the substantial number of hormonally active contaminants and the expense of conducting specific chemical analyses for each of these compounds. This report describes pilot attempts to detect the presence of endocrine-disrupting pollutants in the surface waters of southwest Florida estuaries using the E-SCREEN, a short-term, cell culture bioassay that measures the occurrence and abundance of estrogen-mimicking substances by their ability to induce proliferation in estrogen-sensitive, MCF-7 human breast cancer cells. Using this technique, estrogenic activity was detected in multiple sites in the Myakka River, a major tributary of the Charlotte Harbor estuary. Estrogenic substances appear to occur primarily near areas of significant residential development in the lower portions of this river system. Therefore, it is likely that these contaminants enter the Myakka River via input of stormwater runoff and/or unprocessed sewage, perhaps from overburdened or damaged septic systems.
24320194|Chemical results for interstitial water from organic-rich sediments in the Indian River Lagoon, Florida, show a classic picture of biogeochemical reactions in anoxic environments. Interstitial nitrate was depleted throughout the sediment column and complete sulfate reduction was observed at a depth of <9 cm below the seawater-sediment interface. Interstitial water chlorinity decreased sharply with depth suggesting subsurface occurrence or intrusion of groundwater. Ammonia, phosphate and silica concentrations were high showing significant nutrient regeneration. Dissolved sulfide levels were also high and play a primary role in controlling interstitial water metal concentrations.
24319435|Wading birds, including ibises, herons, and storks, which once nested in southern Florida by the millions have decreased because of habitat destruction. A 1974-1975 survey located 41 colonies and 129,800 wading birds nesting in southern Florida. White Ibis and Cattle Egret were most abundant; populations of Great Egrets, Little Blue Herons, Louisiana Herons and Snowy Egrets were lower than expected. Wading birds nested year round but individual species had more circumscribed nesting seasons which differed seasonally and between inland and coastal colonies.
24320771|Nesting densities reported for the Common Moorhen (Gallinula chloropus) in North American wetlands are usually 5.5 pairs per hectare or less. From 1994 through 1996, I studied nesting activity of free-ranging moorhens inhabiting an exhibit of captive aquatic birds at Miami Metrozoo. During peak reproductive periods of all three years, seven to eight pairs or trios of moorhens simultaneously brooded eggs or raised chicks in this 0.4 ha artificial lake, a density equal to 17.5 to 20 pairs/ha. Access to supplemental food probably was responsible for this high nesting density.
24320514|Food habits of two populations of blue tilapia, Oreochromis aureus (Steindachner), in north central Florida were compared for type, amount, and energy of foods consumed. Blue tilapia in Lake Alice consumed mostly diatoms (probably detrital in nature), whereas blue tilapia in Lake George ingested mostly epiphytic green algae and diatoms. Stomach fullness was highest in fall samples and lowest during spawning (March and April) months in both lakes. Total energy values (kilocalories/gram dry weight) were significantly (P<0.05) higher in Lake George than Lake Alice. The relative digestibility of foods was also higher in Lake George, but assimilable energy values were higher in Lake Alice. Blue tilapia appear to maintain populations in thermally suitable habitats with both epiphytic and epipelic sources of algal foods.
24319761|Based upon dietary recall and social questionnaire data from an economically and ethnically heterogeneous sample of elderly women in Dade County, Florida, I examine the relationship between dietary patterns and social involvement, using the concept of Dietary Flaw Number. Implications of the data for the relationship between life satisfaction and nutritional status are suggested.
24319488|The estuarine snake (Nerodia fasciata compressicauda) is an extremely variable mangrove inhabitant which can survive long periods of immersion in sea water (up to 99 da). There is an area of apparent intergradation with the sea water intolerant subspecies N.f. pictiventris on or near Chokoloskee Island in Collier County, Florida. The intergrades varied markedly among each other in coloration, yet all survived for prolonged periods in sea water (at least 30 da). Single litters from this population showed enormous pattern variation, including partially striped morphs very similar to N.f. taeniata from Volusia County, Florida. There are previous records of taeniata-like phenotypes from the Tampa Bay area and Cuba. It appears that N.f. taeniata should be relegated to synonymy with N.f. compressicauda, because neither coloration nor scale characters (numbers of subcaudals) can be used unequivocally as diagnostic characters. The greater frequency of partially striped forms in Volusia County is probably due to the utilization of salt marsh habitat there instead of mangroves. Thus, the superficial resemblance to N.f. clarki can be ascribed to habitat similarities, and not merely to possible contact with west coast salt marsh snakes during Pleistocene submergence of the intervening peninsula.
24320084|The species is reported for the first time from Florida and additional stations are cited for Georgia.
24320579|Actual and presumed predation by the ghost crab on a total of 16 hatchling diamondback terrapin was observed on a barrier island in southern New Jersey in October 1990, 1991 and 1992. Hatchlings are attacked and killed by bites to the head. Feeding starts on the head and typically continues posteriorad until all soft parts, as well as the anterior portions of the shell, are consumed. Predation is probably opportunistic. Hatchlings probably represent only a minor food of the abundant and highly-active crab, but the crab could be a significant source of mortality on the much less abundant hatchlings.
24320774|The origin of nest initiation by lone foundresses in the paper wasp Mischocyttarus mexicanus was investigated. Specifically, the hypothesis that these females are the lone survivors of former sister groups was tested. If this hypothesis were true, lone (haplometrotic) females would be indistinguishable from females that begin nests with sisters (pleometrotic females), especially those pleometrotic females that spend the most time on the nest and are the most likely to survive. Foundress sizes were compared from one population, and it was found that haplometrotic females were larger than high- and low-ranking pleometrotic females. Pleometrotic nests in another population were reduced to form "forced-lone" females; these females were less active than true haplometrotic females. Haplometrotic females also made more foraging trips than forced-lone females while spending an equal amount of time on their nests. These results do not support a sister-mortality hypothesis for haplometrosis but instead suggest that haplometrotis and pleometrosis are the result of two distinct nesting tactics.
24319457|In 1968, 38 marine and freshwater fishes were taken over several months under different conditions of salinity and temperature. The degree of influence of these factors depended upon the species and constancy of salinity and temperature.
24320102|Irrigation of cropland with municipal effluent is presently being practiced on a limited scale. Studies have shown that a number of physical, chemical, and biological processes occur within the soil-water-plant system. Interactions among these processes are discussed and a mathematical framework is described for modeling some of them.
24319727|With the 1940 imagery and past vegetational studies in southern Florida as a base, the vegetation of the Atlantic Coastal Ridge of Broward County is mapped to show Strand, Tropical Hammock, Low Hammock, Mangrove, Swamp, Scrub, Pine Flatwoods, Dry Prairie, Wet Prairie and Marsh. Differences in vegetational types have characteristic species composition, ecology and soils.
24321647|Recent studies have demonstrated that biologically active levels of ecoestrogens, environmental chemicals capable of altering estrogen-regulated processes in aquatic organisms, may be present in surface waters of southwest Florida's Caloosahatchee River Estuary and pose health risks to local wildlife. This study examined the concentrations of estrogenic substances in this river system, with special focus on wastewater-related organic contaminants commonly present in effluent-impacted ecosystems (i.e., natural and synthetic estrogens, detergent metabolites). In addition, the presence of the ecoestrogen biomarker vitellogenin was examined in Caloosahatchee River hogchokers to determine if biological effects resulting from ecoestrogen exposure are present in local wildlife. Analytical measurements conducted on environmental samples obtained by spot sampling and through the use of passive sampling devices demonstrated that natural and synthetic estrogens and the detergent metabolites, nonylphenol and octylphenol, are present at detectable, but low concentrations in incoming effluent and surface waters of the Caloosahatchee basin. Based on these values and the absence of vitellogenin in plasma of Caloosahatchee River hogchokers, these compounds do not appear to pose significant threats to wildlife populations in this river system. Some evidence for increased parasitism by microsporidians in Caloosahatchee River hogchokers was observed, and should be re-evaluated in future studies.
24320470|Infrared spectroscopic procedures annd qualitative chemical tests are used to obtain information concerning the chemical composition of a material possibly black coral or fossil bone found at an archaeological site.
24319480|Eastern woodrat occurs throughout southeastern United States in suitable forested habitats but in Florida, woodrats previously have been reported inland only from northern counties. I found woodrats occurring in at least disjunct populations throughout southcentral Florida as far south as DeSoto County.
24320427|This note reports the presence of a South American catfish in the Hillsborough River, Hillsborough County, Florida. Although loricariid catfishes have been reported from the Tampa Bay area for several decades, until recently they had not been documented from the Hillsborough River drainage. The construction of a new canal system may have allowed ingress of Pterygoplichthys cf. multiradiatus into the Hillsborough River proper. A brief morphological description of three specimens is presented. Future research into the biological and ecological impacts of this algae-feeding armored catfish is strongly recommended.
24319988|The potential therapeutic value of ascorbic acid in facilitating the recovery from oral surgery is investigated through the computerized statistical analysis of clinical and demographic data on 452 consecutive tooth extraction patients who visited a dental clinic in Miami, Florida. The 277 patients who were prescribed vitamin C post-surgically exhibited significantly more rapid healing than the 175 control subjects who received none. The incidence of alveolalgia ("dry socket"), a painful and troublesome extraction complication, was over five times lower in the sub-sample receiving vitamin C. Age, sex, occupation and health history were not statistically correlated with healing rates. Recent research indicates that ascorbic acid might enhance dental healing by stimulating the immune system and hastening the proper formation of scar tissue.
24321585|Three scrub oak species, common among the pyrogenic scrubby flatwoods of Highlands County, Florida, were examined with regard to investment in herbivore defense and corresponding defensive strategies. Leaves of Quercus chapmanii, Q. inopina, and Q. geminata were analyzed for tannin activity, toughness, and insect herbivory along a gradient of various times since fire, ranging from recently burned (1 year prior) to long unburned (20 years prior). A significant inverse correlation was found between investment in leaf tannin activity and leaf toughness, indicating that species investing largely in tannin activity (Q. chapmanii) do not invest as much in leaf toughness. Conversely, we observed the least tannin activity in the toughest leaves (Q. geminata). The third species in this study, Q. inopina, invested moderately in both defense methods, indicating that each oak species has evolved a unique herbivore defense strategy. Insect herbivory was less variable, but Q. chapmanii did have a greater percentage of insect damaged leaves, which may be a consequence of its greater investment in acorn production than the other two species. We observed no effect of time since fire on defensive investment in any species, indicating that if fire does affect defense production in scrub oaks, its effect is short lived.
24321200|Previous work has established the possibility of utilizing known ion exchange resins and known chelating and coordinating agents that were supported on materials such as silica gel. These studies revealed the utility of these materials in the removal of heavy metals such as lead, silver, copper and nickel from aqueous media. Montmorillonite KSF has been commonly used as an ion-exchange material in the removal of heavy metals from standard solutions. In the present study, montmorillonite KSF was modified using azeotropic distillation to condense 2-mercaptoethanol with the clay material. The resulting product was used as a coordinating agent to remove copper(II), cadmium(II), silver(I), nickel(II) and lead(II) ions from standard aqueous solutions. Without adjusting the pH, better than 90% of the metal ions could be removed. Application to other solid substrates has been considered and is pending.
24321813|We conducted a mark-recapture study of the turtle assemblage inhabiting a 1.1 km reach of the Santa Fe River within River Rise Preserve State Park in northern Florida during drought conditions in 2006 and 2007. In 154 man-hours of snorkeling, we hand-captured eight species, including two Florida listed Species of Special Concern  the Suwannee Cooter (Pseudemys concinna) and Alligator Snapping Turtle (Macrochelys temminckii). Species diversity (Shannon H) and species evenness (Pielou J) were 1.23 and 0.59, respectively. The most abundant species was P. concinna, comprising 54.5% of all individuals captured and 77.9% of the total assemblage biomass. Biomass of the entire assemblage was estimated to be 199.8 kg/ha. This is the first detailed description of a turtle assemblage occurring in a blackwater stream habitat in the southeastern United States.
24320032|The distributions of all 25 turtle species recorded from Florida (including 17 freshwater, five marine, one estuarine, and two terrestrial species) are mapped and reviewed. Freshwater turtle species density in Florida is among the highest in the world, with 13 species known to co-occur in the Escambia River, and possibly also in the Apalachicola, Wakulla, and Suwannee river basins. Although at least eight exotic species have been introduced into Florida, the only confirmed breeding populations of non-native forms are of Trachemys scripta elegans.
24321027|Trace elements and organic contaminants in bottom-sediment samples collected from 10 sites on the Barron River Canal and from one site on the Turner River in October 1998 had patterns of distribution that indicated different sources. At some sites on the Barron River Canal, lead, copper, and zinc, normalized to aluminum, exceeded limits normally considered as background and may be enriched by human activities. Polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbons and p-cresol, normalized against organic carbon, had patterns of distribution that indicated local sources of input from a road or vehicular traffic or from an old creosote wood treatment facility. Phthalate esters and the trace elements arsenic, cadmium, and zinc were more widely distributed with the highest normalized concentrations occurring at the Turner River background site, probably due to the high percentage of fine sediment (74 % less than 63 micrometers) and high organic carbon concentration (42 %) at that site and the binding effect of organic carbon on trace elements and trace organic compounds. Low concentrations of pesticides or pesticide degradation products were detected in bottom sediment (DDD and DDE, each less than 3.5 g/kg) and water (9 pesticides, each less than 0.06 /L), primarily in the northern reach of the Barron River Canal where agriculture is a likely source. Although a few contaminants approached criteria that would indicate adverse effects on aquatic life, none exceeded the criteria, but the potential synergistic effects of mixtures of contaminants found at most sites are not included in the criteria.
24319497|Subgenus Hydrocallis of the Nymphaeaceae has not previously been reported to occur in the United States. Its species are night-flowering waterlilies native to South America. Two of these species are now known to have occurred in apparently natural situations in peninsular Florida. Nymphaea blanda G. F. W. Meyer is cited from two stations in Citrus and Levy counties, and Nymphaea jamesoniana Planchon is cited for DeSoto County. A key separates these and other Nymphaea in Florida.
24320308|The Old World species, Hygrophila polysperma (Acanthaceae) is reported for the first time as naturalized in Florida. Synonymy, description, and distribution in Florida are given. The species is illustrated.
24321233|Florida Keys locality records for the moths Eupseudosoma involutum floridum (Arctiidae), Acrolophus popeanellus (Acrolophidae), Spoladea recurvalis (Crambidae), Spodoptera dolichos (Noctuidae), Adaina ambrosiae, A. perplexus, A. simplicius, Exelastis montischristi, Hellinsia unicolor, Lantanophaga pusillidactylla, Lioptilodes parvus, Megalorhipida leucodactylus, Stenoptilodes brevipennis, S. taprobanes (Pterophoridae), Parachma ochracealis (Pyralidae), and Protambulyx carteri (Sphingidae) are presented.
24321864|The Southwest Florida Frog Monitoring Network was established in 2000 to collect long-term data on frog communities of the region. Routes of 10-12 stops were monitored monthly during the rainy season (JuneSeptember). Data on all frog calls during a three minute period were recorded using a three-level intensity code. We report results from the first ten years of monitoring to examine broad trends in the frog populations of southwest Florida. We explored the abundance of all frog species, as reflected by calling intensity, to elucidate potential factors that may influence long-term changes in frog populations and communities. These factors may include: natural variations of frog populations, disappearing and altered habitats through local and global human actions, landscape context, and the impacts of invasive species. At a regional scale, it appears that most frog species are maintaining natural variations in calling levels among years, suggesting that frogs are responding to annual variation and not regional or global changes. Use of behavioral indicators, such as calling intensity of frogs, may provide understanding of the environmental implications of altered hydroperiods and other landscape perturbations in our watershed and possibly some positive responses to restoration efforts.
24321452|Results from this laboratory experiment indicate that the goldfish (Carassius auratus L.) is able to persist in low-salinity environments (10 ppt) for long periods of time and at higher salinities for short time periods. When acutely shifted from fresh water to low-salinity conditions (515 ppt) the species is capable of survival for at least 72 h. However, acute transfer to salinities of 2025 ppt lead to 100% mortality by 8 h. Under chronic low-salinity conditions, the goldfish showed high levels of survival at salinities of 5 and 10 ppt, but significant mortality at salinities of 15 and 20 ppt. A newly developed variety of goldfish (black salty) was nearly equivalent to standard goldfish in its salinity tolerance.
24321985|Ecological factors that influence terricolous lichen distributions in xeric scrub were investigated in the Jacksonville Arboretum and Gardens, northeastern Florida, USA. Cover of mat-forming lichens Cladonia subtenuis and Cladonia evansii (referred to as Cladonia spp.) was recorded from three xeric scrub habitats: open and sandy Ceratiola scrub, closed-canopy Quercus scrub with ground cover of leaf litter, and transitional Ceratiola-scrub areas surrounded by Quercus scrub. Changes in Cladonia spp. cover were compared among plots that differed in ground cover (sand, leaf litter, and undisturbed plots) located within the three scrub habitats for one year. Changes in lichen biomass and physical characteristics of the environment were recorded for nine months in the three habitats. Lichen cover was greatest in the transitional habitat (43.0  7.4%) as compared to the Quercus scrub (12.3  4.3%) and Ceratiola scrub (5.6  1.9%). Irradiance and wind velocities were greatest in the Ceratiola scrub and lowest in the Quercus scrub. Increases in cover and thallus biomass were greatest in the transitional habitat. Lichen cover decreased by 79.8  9.2% in the sand plots. Excessive irradiance and thallus displacement likely contributed to the low cover and biomass in the Ceratiola scrub. Shady conditions in the Quercus scrub may negatively affect Cladonia species. Prevention of canopy closure would maintain terricolous lichen cover in the xeric scrub community.
24321584|A study of the zooplankton communities of the Middle St. John's River basin was conducted to explore spatial and temporal trends in distribution. Zooplankton was collected on a monthly basis, from October 2003 through September 2005, using horizontal plankton tows (80 m mesh and 15 cm diameter) in 5 lakes and 4 river sections in the basin. A total of 35 rotifer, 11 cladoceran and 4 copepod taxa were identified. Some taxa were commonly observed at all sampling sites, including the cladoceran Bosmina longirostris, the rotifers Brachionus havanensis, Keratella cochlearis, and Polyarthra vulgaris, and both calanoid and cyclopoid copepods. Seasonally, copepods were most abundant between April and September, while cladocerans exhibited peak abundances in the fall. From an inter-annual perspective, peak abundances of both groups were higher during the second year of the project than the first, possibly due to the high incidence of intense summer storms in the first year. Spatially, lake sites generally had greater zooplankton abundances than river sites. Among the lakes, Lake Jesup had significantly greater zooplankton abundance than lakes Harney, Monroe, Ashby, and Norris.
24321798|The effect of kitten births on home range dynamics have been documented for other felid species; however, not for the Florida panther. Understanding home range dynamics of the Florida panther, especially female panthers, can aid land mangers in decisions to conduct management activities when panthers are present in management areas. Furthermore, understanding of home range processes will advance scientific knowledge and aid in the ultimate goal of recovery for the Florida panther. This study documents the changes in home ranges of female panthers in response to the birth and eventual dispersal of kittens using radio telemetry data in combination with panther den and kitten data in a GIS frame work. The home ranges of female panthers significantly contracted and shifted in response to the production of kittens. In addition, overall home range size was not affected by the birth and dispersal of young, which has been reported in other felid studies.
24321645|Fish communities of the Peace River were assessed by standardized boat electrofishing during 2005  2006 and compared to historic sampling that occurred during 1983  1992. Four non-native species Pterygoplichthys multiradiatus, P. disjunctivus, Hoplosternum littorale, and Hemichromis letourneuxi became established since 1991, and Pterygoplichthys spp. was the most numerically-abundant species in 2006. Abundance and biomass of two non-native species that were established during the historic period, Oreochromis aureus and Clarias batrachus, decreased. Extirpation of native species since the historic period was not documented. Species richness and diversity between the historic and recent periods were stable, but changes in fish community structure as determined from multivariate analysis were apparent. Extreme flooding and three months of hypoxia following three major hurricanes in 2004 greatly affected species composition, but evidence that the community had substantially recovered by 2006 may indicate ecological resilience. These baseline assessments and continued sampling may be useful to document biological changes due to environmental degradation and restoration projects, evaluating minimum flows and levels, understanding short- and long-term impacts of major hurricanes and droughts, and documenting ecological impacts of non-native fishes.
24321403|Exotic freshwater fishes are a high profile environmental issue. This paper updates information related to exotic freshwater fishes in Florida. Currently, 34 exotic freshwater fishes are listed as reproducing in Florida waters, of which 23 are established (i.e., permanent), two have localized populations, and nine are possibly established (i.e., reproducing but permanence questionable). In addition to these, 14 other exotic freshwater fishes previously known to be reproducing have disappeared or been intentionally eradicated.
24320147|The social unit of Nycticeius humeralis is a group of philopatric females that mates with a smaller, stable group of males. Young males disperse from the natal roost. Nondispersal of young females leads to matrilineal recruitment. Nursery populations thus appear to be kin groups in which kin selection could occur. Neonatal sex ratio is biased toward males. The two sexes of adults differ in their investment in parental care and in the variation in their reproductive success. These patterns are consistent with a model of natural selection of parental ability to vary the sex ratio of offspring.
24319902|This study was initiated to investigate the compound(s) of Ptychodiscus brevis toxin (PBTX) that causes contraction of canine tracheal smooth muscle. The components of PBTX were separated by reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) using a chloroform-methanol linear solvent gradient system. Purified PBTX fractions were tested for neurological activity (as measured by canine tracheal smooth muscle contraction) and hemolytic activity (as measured by kinetics of hemolysis of canine blood cells in a blood-buffer solution). Chemical analysis was conducted to determine the structure of the neurologically active compound of PBTX. The neurological activity of crude PBTX was enhanced by HPLC purification. A 6-fold increase in neurological activity was observed after the first HPLC purification, while a 75-fold increase in neurological activity was demonstrated after the second HPLC purification as compared to crude PBTX. Three primary peaks were observed in the HPLC chromatogram: one (PBTX-2a) had neurological activity, a second (PBTX-1) had hemolytic activity, and a third (PBTX-2b) did not have neurologic or hemolytic activity. In addition, tachyphylaxis (rapidly developing tolerance) occurred in canine tracheal smooth muscle repetitively exposed to PBTX-2a, which was found to have a molecular weight of about 900 daltons and an ultraviolet absorption maximum of 208 mn. These chemical characteristics were observed for an eleven member transfused ether ring compound that was neurologically active and whose structure was elucidated by previous researchers.
24321482|The natural hydrological system of the Loxahatchee River's Northwest Fork has been altered in less than 50 years, resulting in a significant shift from freshwater to more saltwater tolerant vegetation. From an initial transect survey in 1967 to the present time; one research location best demonstrates the collective changes in species composition along a topographic gradient from the edge of the uplands through the floodplain to the river's edge. In 1967, with freshwater vegetation still present, there was already evidence of salinity impacts as approximately 67% of the cypress trees had died. Nearly 40 years later, the vegetation along this transect is now dominated by white mangroves. Recent hurricanes in 2004 have significantly impacted the white mangrove community. Saltwater intrusion along the river is directly the result of diminished flows over the past 50 years.
24321464|There are few reports regarding the occurrence and distribution of higher filamentous marine fungi on mangroves in South Florida. Previous studies have demonstrated that marine fungi are an important degradative component and assume an important role in nutrient recycling systems in estuarine and near-shore ecosystems. The purpose was to study the occurrence of higher filamentous fungi colonizing Rhizophora mangle and associated driftwood in J. U. Lloyd State Park on the southeast coast of Florida, USA. Over a fourteen-month period, 33 species were collected including 1 Basidiomycota, 9 Deuteromycota, and 23 Ascomycota. The predominant species, by frequency of identifications from collections, included the Ascomycota, Halorosellinia oceanica, Leptosphaeria australiensis, Lulworthia grandispora, and Sagaaromyces glitra as well as the Deuteromycete Trichocladium alopallonellum. Massarina velatospora is reported for the first time in the Atlantic/Caribbean region and Lineolata rhizophorae is reported as new to Florida. A new host record for Phaeosphaeria gessneri occurring on R. mangle is reported. Overall, the marine mycota of South Florida appears to be very similar to that found in other tropical and subtropical regions.
24319708|Shallow-water (12-37 m) eastern Gulf of Mexico reef biotas suffered damage during the exceptionally cold winters of 1977 and 1978. Certain fishes were killed or sustained injury either directly from the cold or from physical abrasion against the reef during heavy bottom surge accompanying cold front passage. Reef corals were overturned or torn from their reef attachment during periods of heavy bottom surge. Recovery time for these impacts is not known.
24319901|Effects of season of prescribed burning and time elapsed since last burn on herbaceous biomass and species composition, root carbohydrate and nitrogen content, and southeastern pocket gopher (Geomys pinetis) mounding activity and body condition were examined on a sandhill community. Treatments included late-winter and late-summer burns in 1983, 1984, and 1985, and an unburned control. Post-burn data collected in the fall of 1985 showed no significant differences (P>0.05) for total biomass of aboveground herbaceous vegetation. Aboveground biomass of grasses was higher than forb biomass for all treatments. Forb biomass was lowest on the unburned control. Shannon diversity indices were consistently lower on unburned than on burned treatments. Carbohydrate levels in roots of selected herbaceous species collected from each treatment in the winter of 1986 were variable and no significant differences (P>0.05) were detected. Nitrogen levels in roots tended to be higher on unburned than on burned treatments. Mounding activity varied widely both among and within treatments and ranged from 0.73 to 5.19 mounds produced per day during the winter of 1986. No significant correlation between mounding activity and carbohydrate or nitrogen levels of selected plants was detected. No significant differences (P>0.05) were detected in weight: body length ratios of pocket gophers among treatments during late winter-early spring.
24320398|There has been no ontogenetic study of conifer ovuliferous scale development. This information is important for interpreting and understanding the fossil record of conifers and their ancestry. Mature and juvenile stages of seed cones and their fragments are found isolated in ancient sediments. Therefore, this ontogenetic study of cone scales in Pinus elliottii Engelm. (Diploxylon Section, Pinaceae) was initiated with special emphasis on the development of two prominent scale features; the apophysis and umbo. In this species, the two structures do not develop until the cone's second year of growth, and during all subsequent stages, they are broader than they are thick. Furthermore, the dorsal umbo develops and matures before the apophysis.
24319812|Eigenvector analysis of Palmer Drought Index values for southeastern United States for 1931-79 reveals that the 1930s and 1950s experienced the most significant droughts. Generally, the dry conditions in the Southeast were less severe than those of the Midwest at the same time. The 1971-79 period was significantly wetter than normal in nearly all of the Southeast. Moisture conditions in south-central and southern Florida are generally out of phase with the remainder of southeastern United States.
24319429|Variously colored Floy anchor tags were applied to 30,510 adult white shrimp, Penaeus setiferus, from the Cape Fear River, North Carolina, to note shrimp movements and distances traveled, and the feasibility, physical effects, color bias, and retention of the tags. Movements were southerly for 575 km to near Jekyll Island, Georgia, during late fall and winter. The tags caused no physical damage or impediment to the shrimp's swimming or burrowing ability; color did not bias the tag returns. Tag retention observations were conducted in the field as well as with aquarium held shrimp. Tag retention was as long as 7 mo and through 2 molts.
24320330|Meteorological records and water temperatures are used to describe annual variations in the heat budget of the Indian River lagoon, on the Atlantic coast of Florida. In the summer of 1979, water temperatures varied 1-2C about the seasonal norm over time scales of about 1 wk. Heat stored in the lagoon was highly correlated with net insolation, net outgoing longwave radiation and sensible heat fluxes. In the winter of 1979-80, warming and cooling cycles varied temperatures  3-4C about the norm, and the storage term was significantly correlated with only the sensible and latent heat fluxes.
24320258|Recent findings in teleosts indicate that an area of the hypothalamus (subglomerular area and periventricular zone of the inferior lobe) is involved in the regulation of feeding. The results are based on experiments utilizing brain stimulation, lesion and recording techniques. At least in goldfish, neurons in this area are preferentially activated by olfactory and gustatory input. Comparative anatomical studies suggest that a similar and probably homologous area is present in the shark hypothalamus and feeding activity has been elicited by electrical stimulation of this area in free-swimming nurse sharks. Although the direct evidence in elasmobranchs is still meager, it seems likely that the shark inferior lobe is also involved in the control of feeding. The indication from studies in teleosts, that this region is sensitive to olfactory stimuli, is consistent with frequent observations that many sharks and teleosts can be strongly aroused to feed in response to certain chemical stimuli.
24320960|Florida scrub is disappearing throughout its range. Brevard County contains regionally important scrub ecosystems; these support some of the largest remaining populations of the Florida Scrub-Jay (Aphelocoma coerulescens) and other species of conservation concern. Scrub in Brevard County is distributed across five distinct landscapes: Cape Canaveral and the outer barrier island, Merritt Island, the Atlantic Coastal Ridge, the Ten Mile Ridge, and the Osceola Plain Ridge. These landscapes differ in geologic history, topography, elevation, and soils. Scrub vegetation differs across these landscapes. Coastal strand and scrub occur on Cape Canaveral and the outer barrier island. Sand pine scrub occurs primarily on the Atlantic Coastal Ridge. Oak scrub and scrubby flatwoods are common on Merritt Island, the Atlantic Coastal Ridge, and the Ten Mile Ridge but also occur on the western side of Cape Canaveral. Distributions of rare scrub plants differ across these landscapes. Cereus gracilis var. simpsonii (prickly apple), Chamaesyce cumulicola (sand dune spurge), Glandularia maritima (coastal vervain), Lantana depressa var. floridana (Atlantic Coast Florida lantana), and Tephrosia angustissima var. curtissii (coastal hoary-pea) occur in coastal scrub of Cape Canaveral or the outer barrier island. Dicerandra thinicola is found only in a small area of the Atlantic Coastal Ridge. Conradina grandiflora (large-flowered rosemary) occurs on the Atlantic Coastal Ridge and the Ten Mile Ridge. Rare scrub fauna also occur differently across these landscapes. The Florida Scrub-Jay, Gopherus polyphemus (gopher tortoise), and Drymarchon corias couperi (eastern indigo snake) occur on Cape Canaveral, Merritt Island, the Atlantic Coastal Ridge, and the Ten Mile Ridge. Pituophis melanoleucus mugitus (Florida pine snake) is known from Cape Canaveral, Merritt Island, and the Atlantic Coastal Ridge. Podomys floridanus (Florida mouse) and Rana capito aesopus (Florida gopher frog) occur on Merritt Island and the Atlantic Coastal Ridge. Sceloporus woodi (Florida scrub lizard) and Tantilla relicta neilli (Florida crowned snake) occur on the Atlantic Coastal Ridge. Federally-owned areas of scrub (4,455.9 ha) are found within Kennedy Space Center/Merritt Island National Wildlife Refuge (1,559.2 ha) and Cape Canaveral Air Station (2,896.7 ha). The remaining scrub of the Atlantic Coastal Ridge (4,436.0 ha), the Ten Mile Ridge (592.0 ha), and the southern end of the outer barrier island (382.4 ha) is the focus of county and state scrub conservation efforts. Fire suppression and landscape fragmentation have degraded scrub habitat throughout the county. Intensive management through prescribed burning and restoration are needed to ensure the survival of scrub ecosystems and species.
24319930|Two West Indian manatees (Trichechus manatus) were observed 61 km northeast of the Dry Tortugas Islands, a location not normally considered to be part of the species' range. When spotted, the animals were swimming in a southwesterly direction, away from Florida. Observations such as this, of manatees far from freshwater, raise the question of whether manatees require regular access to freshwater for osmoregulation, as suggested in the literature.
24320982|If current global warming projections are accurate, Florida's climate will be altered significantly. Fifty years from now, Florida will be hotter, wetter, and have more flooding, more hurricanes, and more tropical diseases. A proposal has been made that may reduce the rate of global warming.
24320611|Twenty-nine taxa of silica-scaled Chyrsophyceae and Synurophyceae are reported from the spring flora of two relatively eutrophic and humic stained lakes, Lower Lake Myakka and Lake Tarpon. Samples from 1986, 1987, 1989 and 1992 were analyzed. Twenty-seven and fifteen of the taxa were found in Lower Lake Myakka and Lake Tarpon, respectively. Affinities with tropical and temperate floras are noted in both lakes. This represents the first report of Synura petersenii f. truttae Siver and S. australiensis Playfair in Florida, and the second report of the latter taxon in the United States.
24321268|A review of available amphibian and reptile distributional records for 14 of the Georgia Sea Islands indicates 70 species are represented on these islands. These include 17 anurans, 8 caudates, the alligator, 11 lizards, 23 snakes, and 11 turtles. Examination of the records of 17 archaeological sites on three islands indicates numerous species previously present on these islands but for which there is no contemporary documentation. As a group, the islands of Pleistocene origin have a higher species richness of amphibians and reptiles compared to younger Holocene islands. Regression analysis of species richness against island size is highly significant, but species richness regressed against distance from mainland and distance from nearest neighbor island indicated no significant relationships. Species richness was significantly related to qualitative assessments of the amount of study islands have received but not to qualitative assessments of human impact. Multiple stepwise analysis based on size and study improved significance and goodness of fit values for regressions. Although this paper represents the most detailed summary of the current knowledge of herpetofaunal distributions on the Georgia sea islands, our knowledge of the bioeography of the islands is far from complete.
24320212|Supplemental vitamin D3 levels of 200, 400, 800 and 1600 ICU and sludge levels of 0, 5, 10 and 15% were fed in 2 experiments to broiler chicks (age 1-21 da) to determine if iron or other heavy metals contained in the sludge destroyed vitamin D3 and depressed performance. Adding vitamin D3 to the diet did not offset the depressing effect of sludge feeding upon body weight. Tibia ash data were not significantly influenced by adding sludge. The highest level of vitamin D3 supplementation did significantly improve tibia ash. We conclude that the adverse effects of sludge addition were not related to vitamin D3 destruction.
24320302|Population characteristics of Procyon lotor marinus were studied in estuarine mangrove swamps of southwestern Florida. Of 497 raccoons captured, 297 were tagged and released, and 200 were used for necropsy or other studies. The population was characterized by lack of a sharply-defined breeding season and relatively low rates of reproduction and turnover. Breeding extended from March through August with births occurring from May through October. Mean litter size was 2.87. Densities were estimated to range from 2.2-6.5/km2 and generally were highest in fall and winter. Adults made up 69 % of the raccoons captured, subadults 20 %, and immatures ( 30 wk) 11%. Sex ratios favored males in all age classes.
24322347|St. Elmo Brady was the first African-American to earn a Ph.D. in chemistry in the United States, and he had a considerable influence on the development of chemistry at Fisk University and the training of young African-American students at four historically black colleges or universities (HBCUs). The amount of information about him seems to be fairly diffuse, and he deserves much more attention  the degree he earned, how he got to graduate school, the postdoctoral years, the retirement years, and his contributions.
24320423|This illustrated key to the crayfishes of Florida is offered to accompany the update of the crayfishes of the state compiled by Richard and Shelley Franz (1990). Fifty-five species and subspecies are included herein, and those couplets of the key that might prove to be troublesome contain references to figures that we hope will be helpful.
24320648|The complexation between the divalent calcium cation (Ca2+) and the polyelectrolyte humic acid (HA) was studied by a potentiometric titration technique using a calcium ion-selective electrode. Thermodynamic titrations were conducted at an ionic strength of 0.1 (NaCl), temperatures of 20, 25, 30, 35, and 40 C, and a pH of 6.0. The pKa of the humic acid was determined to be 4.43. The total carboxylate capacity of the humic acid was determined to be 8.62 meq/g. Using data obtained in these titrations, the thermodynamic parameters (G, H, and S) of the complexation were determined. The use of a Ca-ISE is a simpler, cleaner technique compared to past work done with radiotracers and solvent extraction.
24321160|We collected data on the location of termitaria (nest-sites) of the tree termite species Nasutitermes costalis at the La Milpa Field Station in northern Belize. N. costalis are ecologically relevant in Central America as decomposers in forest ecosystems and recently (late 1990s) have become an economic concern to land managers in southern Florida as an invasive pest species. Nests were non-uniformly distributed around nest-trees (Rayleigh's Test; Z = 4.69; 0.01 < P > 0.005). Mean angle of termitaria placement was 10 (approximately north-northeast). 40% (n = 30) of the nests we measured were found at the base of the nest tree with all others located <1 m from the forest floor. We conclude that N. costalis prefer to place termitaria on the shaded, northern side of trees instead of the sun-exposed, southern side, presumably for water conservation and/or thermoregulation. Previous research has documented other adaptations for water conservation and thermoregulation in termites; however, we are aware of no other study that documents a preference for northern aspects in nest trees. We believe that entomologists and pest control specialists in Florida may find these results useful for locating, monitoring, and eradicating this invasive pest species.
24321591|Passiflora incarnata plants produce extrafloral nectar that is attractive to ants which, in turn, can act as predators to herbivorous insects. There is a potential cost to protection via ants, as the reproductive success of plants can be reduced if ants remove floral nectar. We asked whether floral nectar and/or floral tissues contain a chemical that would deter ant visitation. In a Petri dish, we allowed individuals from each of two ant species (Camponotus floridana and Pseudomyrmex gracilis) to choose among three nectar solutions (extrafloral nectar (EN), floral nectar (FN), and floral nectar with extract from floral tissues (FN+FE)). In addition, ants of each species were placed into individual Petri dishes in which we spread macerated floral tissue over one half of the top and bottom and distilled water over the other half. When given a choice of nectar types, neither ant species demonstrated a preference for EN over FN, but both tended to avoid FN+FE. In addition, ants spent an average of less than one out of 10 minutes walking within the side of a Petri dish containing floral extract. Our results demonstrate that P. incarnata flowers produce a chemical in tissues, but not in floral nectar, that can deter ant visitors.
24319780|I present various methods explored and utilized for teaching folklore on the sixth grade level and the actual results obtained from an AAIP internship at the Williams Elementary School, Tampa, Florida. The study is ethnographic in nature and deals with the training of 260 six graders in the basics of both folklore collection and archiving. The scope of the project included the use of the collected material as a vehicle for teaching values clarification and the anthropological perspective, and utilizing the basic fieldwork techniques as a methodology for addressing the basic problem of student anomie.
24320513|We experimentally investigated the colonization of artificial reefs by fish and motile invertebrates in the Halifax River lagoon system. The reefs were composed of glued stacks of 60 cm long pieces of PVC pipe. Four reefs of each of three sizes (internal volumes of 1800, 3600 and 6030 cm3) were placed in 1 m deep water from February 1990 to January 1991. The organisms in the reefs were sampled in spring (17 April 1990), summer (9 June 1990), fall (10 November 1990), and winter (7 January 1991). The number of colonists, species richness, and species diversity were significantly higher in larger reefs. These parameters, however, did not increase as fast as reef volume. The small reefs had significantly higher species richness per unit volume than the medium and large reefs. Reef size did not significantly affect the density of colonists. Size-independent aspects of artificial reefs, such as shape, are therefore likely to be more important than size in determining ideal reef design.
24320441|Five species of butterflies (four skippers, one nymphalid) are reported for the first time from the island of Montserrat.
24319496|A detailed gravimetric survey of Alachua County, Florida, consisting of over 250 occupied stations, reveals Bouguer anomaly values ranging from -17 milligals to +5 milligals. Two gravity base stations were located on the University of Florida campus in Gainesville and near the town of Archer. Anomaly patterns, based on one milligal contours, contribute additional fine structure to the existing statewide gravity anomaly map and demonstrate a large gradient leading to a low anomaly in northwestern Alachua County. In contrast, the eastern half is characterized by broadly spaced rambling contours progressing to a high anomaly. The general trend of the anomalies is northeast-southwest, which is congruous with the dominant large-scale Bouguer anomaly pattern for north peninsular Florida.
24320425|Data on the physical characteristics, vegetation, geographic location, and areal coverage of the coastal impoundments in east-central Florida are presented. There are 195 impoundments in the region, covering over 16,000 ha of coastal wetlands. Vegetation in the impoundments is diverse; mangroves predominate in the southern impoundments while herbaceous halophytes predominate in the northern ones. Approximately 3,600 ha of these impoundments are unvegetated, whereas mangroves cover close to 4,000 ha and other halophytic species 4,300 ha. Management of the impoundments varies from none to complex schemes that address not only mosquito control problems but also natural resource and habitat quality interests. Nearly 4,500 ha of impounded wetlands in the Merritt Island National Wildlife Refuge are flooded year-round for waterfowl management, whereas 2,857 ha are under Rotational Impoundment Management (RIM). Present and future management strategies for these impoundments are discussed.
24321407|The effect of the macrostomal-cell inducing ligand, stomatin, on intracellular calcium concentration in Tetrahymena vorax was examined using the cell permeable fluorescent indicator Calcium Orange/AM. Intracellular calcium concentration began to increase within approximately four minutes following stomatin addition to cells that had been pre-loaded with the calcium probe. Intracellular calcium levels continued to rise for at least 20 minutes. Cells incubated for 45 minutes with 100 M aminoethoxydiphenylborate prior to the addition of stomatin showed no increase in intracellular calcium levels. These results, in combination with previously published data, suggest that the increase in calcium concentration in response to stomatin constitutes an important step in the transmembrane signaling pathway that leads to the development of the macrostomal phenotype in Tetrahymena vorax.
24320288|A survey of 165 lakes located in different geologic and physiographic regions was conducted to determine sodium and chloride concentrations. Sodium concentrations in the lakes ranged from 1.2 to 1200 mg/l and chloride concentrations ranged from 1.7 to 2300 mg/l. A general increase in concentrations occurs from northwest to southeast Florida. Highest concentrations are found in the lakes of the middle and lower St. Johns River and in coastal lagoon lakes.
24320782|At least 7 species of woodpeckers have been recorded to feed on lizards. This observation of a red-bellied woodpecker feeding on a green anole is the first reported record for this species. This lizard might be a more common food item for this bird than is realized.
24320333|The algal planktonic species from the Indian River near Vero Beach, Florida are presented as a check-list. Two-hundred-and-thirty species representing 68 genera of diatoms were observed. Twenty species of dinoflagellates from 9 genera are also listed from a year's collection. Scant information is available on the species of phytoplankton of the Indian River. Only cursory examinations of this flora were made as parts of larger ecological studies, by Stephens (1974, 1975) and David (1978). Stephens and Gibson (1979, 1980 a, b, c) have examined several epiphytic species of the diatom genus Mastogloia from the Indian River, yet the phytoplanktonic flora was still undescribed.
24319460|From 1-17 polychaete worms were found in association with each of 14 sponges distributed among 8 genera.
24319572|Mild acid hydrolysis of yeast phase Histoplasma capsulatum cell walls yielded precipitin-reactive material in the supernates of hydrolysis. Three distinct bands were present at various times by means of double diffusion in agar gel employing rabbit anti-H. capsulatum antiserum. Band I was acid-labile, while bands 2 and 3 were acid-stable. All 3 bands were removed from the walls early in the hydrolysis. Precipitin-reactive material was found to be different from fluorescent and hemagglutinating antibody-reactive material.
24321036|A study was conducted by dipnet to compare community structure and abundance of major taxa of epifauna among Halodule wrightii, Thalassia testudinum, Syringodium filiforme, drift algae, and unvegetated bottom in Tarpon Bay, Sanibel, FL. Sampling was conducted roughly once per week from January, 1999, through January, 2000. Samples from unvegetated bottom contained a significantly lower average number of total organisms than any of the four macrophytes. On average, gastropods were the most abundant taxa collected from each species of seagrass, caridean shrimps were the most abundant taxa collected from drift algae, and mysids were the most abundant taxa collected from unvegetated bottom. Among the five habitats, Halodule contained the highest average number of gastropods, mysids and pink shrimp, Farfantopenaeus duorarum. Thalassia contained the highest average number of pagurid crabs and syngnathid fish. Drift algae contained the highest average number of amphipods, caridean shrimps, and the isopod, Harrieta faxoni. For each macrophyte, regression did not reveal consistent relationships between abundances of major taxa, salinity, or percent macrophyte cover. Community composition differed significantly among all five habitats. Numbers of specimens from major taxa were generally found in greater abundance in summer than in winter.
24319653|We studied the effect of a postbloom malathion:copper spray and a summer oil, methidathion, benomyl and chlorobenzilate spray on the populations of important commercial citrus pests found on urban citrus trees. The spray program lowered the percentage of leaves infested with citrus rust mite, Phyllocoptruta oleivora (Ashm.), and significantly lowered the total number of scale insects present from June-November on foliage of treated trees. Overall, the population dynamics of pests on treated and untreated trees proceeded as if these pests were in a commercial grove, rather than on urban citrus trees. Major differences, however, existed in the status of the various phytophagous species in the urban versus the grove environment. Because tree appearance is of paramount importance to urban homeowners, the important pests are those that impair the tree's aesthetic beauty rather than those that reduce fruit yield or quality. The important urban pests are aphids, whitefly adults and sooty mold, while the major pests of commercial citruscitrus rust mites and greasy spot disease Myosphaerella citri Whitesideare considered of little importance by the homeowner.
24320417|The killifish Rivulus marmoratus (Poey) uses the active and abandoned burrows of the great land crab Cardisoma guanhumi as its primary micro-habitat in the salt marshes of Indian River County, Florida. Over 250 specimens have been captured from burrows, and a maximum of 26 individuals was found in a single burrow, thus representing one of the largest single-point collections recorded in Florida. At higher elevations in the marsh, the fish may be confined to burrows for up to 9 months, but a repertoire of behaviors, documented through laboratory and field observations, allows survival in this specialized environment. The importance of land crab burrows in the life cycle of this fish reinforces the need for habitat protection of both species.
24320300|The elements of a hazardous waste management program are outlined and discussed relative to a lightly industralized region in Florida. Several factors are included such as recognition and quantification of the problem, choosing a management approach, definition of treatment/disposal methods, consideration of environmental impacts, creation of emergency reaction teams, and providing for monitoring and enforcement. Hazardous wastes may result not only from large industries, but also from small businesses from the transportation, health care, research, and consumer sectors of the economy. As a group, these other sources may contribute significantly to a region's overall hazardous waste problem. Any program for managing hazardous wastes must recognize the greatly diverse and complex nature of the problem.
24320011|Vanilla mexicana (= V. inodora) is reported from Martin County, Florida, some 100 miles north of its previously known range. A history of the taxon in Florida and an ecological description of the new locality are provided.
24321795|Diadromy is a life history pattern that involves true migrations between freshwater and marine biomes, so diadromous fishes serve as important sentinels of ecosystem health. Diadromous fishes can be classified as catadromous, anadromous, or amphidromous depending upon which biome is used as spawning or nursery grounds. Included in the candidate list of 26 Florida species, we recognize one catadromous species (Family Anguillidae), five anadromous species (Acipenseridae, Clupeidae), and two amphidromous species (Mugilidae, Syngnathidae). Four diadromous species occur locally but are either not established (Petromyzontidae, Acipenseridae) or are not diadromous in Florida (Acipenseridae, Moronidae). Five candidate species were rejected because of evidence that they are not diadromous (Clupeidae, Mugilidae, Achiridae). We tentatively include nine species as being amphidromous (Centropomidae, Eleotridae, Gobiidae), with the caveat that more research is needed to clarify whether these species exhibit life-stage-specific migrations between freshwater and marine biomes. Florida's diadromous species occur among a wide variety of families, but they represent only about 12% of the regional fish species. This pattern of phylogenetic diversity, but few species, is also evident among diadromous species worldwide. Most of Florida's diadromous species are regulated by fishery management plans, serve as predictable prey resources for other fishes and wildlife, or are protected by special conservation status.
24319586|Hematological and ecological studies have been conducted upon an amphibious catfish originating from Africa and Madagascar. Hemopoetic centers and peripheral blood cells are discussed. The mesonephros was determined to be the principal hemopoetic center. All types of leucocytes were identified in the peripheral circulation. Natural history of the species is discussed briefly.
24321783|During the 2004 hurricane season, Florida was hit by an unprecedented 4 hurricanes (Charley, Frances, Ivan, and Jeanne). The floodplain forest of the Loxahatchee River was impacted by both Hurricanes Frances and Jeanne. Hurricane Frances made landfall on September 5, 2004. Three weeks later, Hurricane Jeanne made landfall on September 25, 2004. Previously in 2003, floodplain vegetation studies were conducted along 10 vegetative belt transects on the tidal and riverine portions of the Northwest Fork of the Loxahatchee River and its major tributaries. In the summer and fall of 2005, canopy trees were reexamined along the 10 belt transects to assess hurricane damage. Comparisons were made between the 2003 survey of the canopy trees and the remaining canopy. In the tidal floodplains, tall white mangrove (Laguncularia racemosa) were heavily impacted, while shorter red mangrove (Rhizophora mangle) were only marginally impacted and defoliated. In the riverine floodplains, the heaviest damage occurred within bottomland hardwood communities with both red maple (Acer rubrum) and water hickory (Carya aquatic) impacted. Of the 1,694 canopy trees sampled, a 2.5% mortality rate occurred as a result of the storms. There is a concern these storms may provide an opportunity for the expansion of exotic pest plants within the floodplains.
24321029|Plant community breakup is defined as the extent to which one or more physiognomically dominant plant species are lost from their communities. With respect to climatic change, potential plant community breakup can be measured as the extent to which one or more climatic envelopes (i. e., climatic adaptation zones) of dominant plant species are lost from the natural ranges of their communities. A climatic-envelope model is used to predict potential breakup of 13 major natural plant communities in Florida as a result of six climatic-change scenarios that could occur over the next 100 years. Averaged over all communities and species within communities, the high-to-low ranking of potential community breakup by scenario is as follows: T+2w (80) > T+1 (80) > T+2w > T+2 > T+1w > T+1 > T, where T = baseline; T+1 and T+2 = mean annual warming of 1C or 2C, respectively, applied uniformly to each month; T+1w and T+2w = mean annual warming of 1C or 2C, with proportionately greater winter and less summer warming (i. e., winter-enhanced or "w"); and (80) = 80% of the baseline mean annual precipitation. The 61% to 100% loss of at least one dominant species envelope caused by T+1 (80) in 11 of the 13 communities and of at least two dominant species envelopes in seven communities is especially notable because it involves only a 1C increase. Based on consideration of non-climatic factors such as persistence time of temperate species and migration rates of subtropical species during climatic change, we conclude that T+1 (80) or any of the +2C scenarios is likely to produce: (1) very significant modification or breakup of several major, natural, woody communities in the Florida panhandle and upper two thirds of the Florida peninsula; and (2) an increase in certain dominant, subtropical species populations in the southern half of the Florida peninsula. Methods of monitoring for early indications of such impacts are noted, and proactive mitigations are suggested. Areas of special interest with respect to monitoring and mitigation include a transition zone between temperate species of two different range types in the Florida panhandle and upper peninsula, and both a major and secondary temperate-subtropical species transition zone in the southern half of the Florida peninsula.
24319661|The hypothesis that the environmental condition of the north Biscayne Bay is polluted, while the south bay is relatively clean, was examined by studying the distribution of cadmium, lead, mercury and zinc in the bottom sediments. Samples were collected from a primary study area in the generally accepted boundary between north and south bay and from sample sites along the Intracoastal Waterway. No significant difference was found in the concentrations of the subject heavy metals in the north and south bay.
24320434|Results from a survey of road mortality of vertebrates in Northern Florida indicated that mortality correlated positively with speed limit and density of vegetative cover, but the influence of traffic volume was apparently masked by the influence of speed limit.
24321236|In this laboratory experiment, the influence of structural complexity on susceptibility to predation by toadfish, Opsanus beta, was examined for two gobies: Microgobius gulosus and Gobiosoma robustum. These two gobies exhibit some habitat partitioning in Florida Bay: Gobiosoma robustum, a non-burrowing species, is generally found associated with seagrass; however, Microgobius gulosus, a burrower, is generally found in mud with little or no associated seagrass. A previous experiment showed that both species preferred seagrass to sand; however, G. robustum was competitively dominant and could displace M. gulosus to sand. It was hypothesized that G. robustum was attracted to seagrass as it ameliorated predation, whereas M. gulosus was protected from predation by its burrowing habit and therefore less strongly attracted to seagrass. Surprisingly, there was no effect of seagrass on predation rates. Microgobius gulosus was significantly more likely to be preyed upon than G. robustum. There was no substrate X species interaction, indicating that that the predation success of toadfish on gobies did not differ across substrate types. Predation is generally ameliorated in structurally complex habitats, and can structure the distribution and density of prey species. However, this appears not to be the case for M. gulosus and G. robustum.
24321822|Competitio is an ecological process that may play a role in the structuring of communities. Understanding the effect of competition on rare species may be particularly important for amphibian conservation, because amphibians are experiencing global declines. We experimentally evaluated the effects of Lithobates [Rana] clamitans (Bronze Frog) tadpoles, a common and relatively widespread species, on Lithobates [Rana] okaloosae (Florida Bog Frog) tadpoles, a rare species with a geographic range that only encompasses small tributary streams of 3 rivers in northwestern Florida. The two species are syntopic, have overlapping breeding seasons, and are known to hybridize. Our results suggest that there was limited influence of L. clamitans on L. okaloosae; because in only one of six comparisons among mixed treatments (i.e., 4 L. clamitans with 8 L. okaloosae) was L. okaloosae growth in the treatment lower than the single species L. okaloosae treatment. Conversely, it appeared that L. clamitans was more susceptible to intraspecific competition than interspecific competition. The lack of a strong competitive effect of L. clamitans on L. okaloosae suggests that competition for food may have a limited effect at the densities we examined. Therefore, given other threats facing L. okaloosae, such as drought, habitat loss or degradation (including succession), and hybridization, competition between tadpoles for food appeared to have been low enough as to be less of a population-level driver of rarity than the aforementioned factors. Our results however, did not rule out the possibility of an increase in negative interactions with more common anurans as resources become more limited.
24321011|A significant gopher tortoise (Gopherus polyphemus) mortality event was documented in June 1998 at a 150-ha mitigation park established for tortoise protection. Shell surveys throughout the park were conducted between June 1998 and September 1999. The greatest concentration of dead tortoises, as determined by shells and remains, occurred on a 28-ha portion of the park, where 104 individual shells were recovered. Tortoise age class and sex were recorded, with results indicating 68% of shells were of adult males. In an attempt to estimate time since death, shells were assigned to one of 6 condition classes, based on degree of disarticulation. Burrow surveys conducted as a means of obtaining tortoise density estimates showed major declines in population size between December 1994 and June 1998 in the area of highest mortality. Potential causes of death and management implications are discussed.
24321451|Using internet databases, estimates of body length (m), body weight (kg), and geological time of first appearance in millions of years before present (MYBP) were recorded for 612 valid genera of dinosaurs. Analyses of the data suggest that two major internet databases (DinoData and Dinosauier-Web [in German]) are in close agreement in their classifications and estimates of typical body length (m) per genus. The length and weight estimates were used to calculate body mass index (BMI = kg/m2) estimates for each genus. The bipedal meat-eaters of Suborder Theropoda (Order Saurischia) showed the relatively lowest values for median BMI, while the quadrupedal plant-eaters of Suborder Sauropodomorpha (Order Saurischia) showed the relatively highest values for median BMI. The mixture of bipedal and quadrupedal plant eaters within Order Ornithischia showed median BMI values generally similar to the threopod genera. Although many genera of theropods, sauropodomorphs and ornithischians appeared during the Late Triassic and Jurassic Periods (225144 MYBP), most genera of theropods and ornthischians appeared later in the Mesozoic, during the Cretaceous Period (14465 MYBP). The median BMI values of theropod and ornithischian genera were not correlated with time of first appearance, but for the sauropodomorphs, the higher BMI values (and more robust body proportions) appeared later in evolutionary time.
24319503|A bio-active isolate from unialgal cultures of the marine blue-green alga, Gomphosphaeria aponina, is cytolytic towards Gymnodinium breve. An apparatus for continuous culture has been designed to provide sufficient material for biophysiochemical characterization of the substance. Enhanced rates of growth and maximum cell population have improved yields and reduced culture time in this system which recycles artificial sea water medium.
24319766|Through the means of a questionnaire, I attempt to assess the current status of anthropology programs in Florida Community Colleges. Particular attention is directed to enrollment, number of courses offered, frequency of course offerings, if an anthropologist is teaching the course, and the problems experienced in "selling" the programs. Suggestions are offered for raising the status of anthropology at the community college level in Florida.
24321435|We evaluated the feasibility of using radio telemetry to study movements and microhabitat use of invasive Cuban treefrogs (Osteopilus septentrionalis) in Florida. We first conducted simple performance trials, and found no overt effects of radio belt attachment on locomotion in a test arena. We then attached radio transmitters to 17 frogs captured in bottomland forest and displaced them 200 m to sites in old-field or bottomland forest habitat, during the summer breeding season. We located each displaced frog daily for an average of 9 days each (range: 215d) and then evaluated their movements and the variables influential in predicting movement (e.g., relative transmitter weight, rainfall, release site, etc.). Radio tracked frogs predominantly chose arboreal refuges in the forest canopy, using the shrub and sub-canopy layer more frequently in old-field where there were few large trees. Frogs displaced to old-field moved rapidly and directly to forest habitats; in contrast, frogs displaced to similar forest habitat remained in forest and their movements were random. Frogs were more likely to move on nights with high relative humidity and temperature, low wind speed, and low moon fraction illuminated; frog sex, size, and relative transmitter weight did not significantly influence frog movement. Our study demonstrates that radio telemetry is a valuable tool for studying the ecology of large adult Cuban treefrogs. Additionally, our finding that displaced Cuban treefrogs are able to move rapidly to suitable forest habitat further attests to the resilience that has contributed to the success of this invasive frog.
24319470|A nearly black female bobcat was collected in Polk County, Florida, in October, 1970. Melanistic bobcats have been reported only 4 times previously, with all reports from southern Florida.
24320735|Recently, the classification of the clapper and king rail has been under debate. Because ornithologists may consider song when determining classification, I used playback recordings to compare the number of calls made by each rail to conspecific and heterospecific calls. Clapper and king rail calls were played in three saltwater marshes in east-central Florida during the spring breeding season. Both rails responded to both bird calls with no significant difference in frequency. These data support the classification of both rails as one species.
24321143|The severe and prolonged drought of 20002001 that affected Florida and the rest of the southeastern United States provided a unique opportunity to examine the impacts of drought on the survivorship and growth of Serenoa repens and Sabal etonia. In addition, a dry-season wildfire that occurred at the height of the drought enabled us to observe the combined impacts of drought and fire on a subset of adult palmettos and two cohorts of seedlings. On average, all populations of adult palmettos and the majority of individuals lost mass during the drought; however, the survivorship of adult palmettos was little affected by either drought or the combination of drought and an intense wildfire. Only 2 of the 937 monitored adult palmettos alive prior to the drought died; both were smaller-than-average-sized Sabal and one was severely burned during the drought. The greatest impact observed was on palmetto seedling survival in scrubby flatwoods where cumulative rates of seedling mortality were more than tripled following the drought. Nevertheless, 55% of a 1989 scrubby flatwoods cohort and 70% of a 1989 flatwoods cohort continue to survive after nearly 13 years, a severe drought, and an intense wildfire. Both seedling and adult Serenoa and Sabal show extraordinary persistence and tolerance to severe drought and intense dry-season wildfire.
24319725|A laboratory colony of round-tailed muskrats (Neofiber alleni) was established to study their behavioral patterns under relatively controlled conditions. When placed in running wheels, the animals ran a mean of 6634 revolutions per day, displaying a nocturnal/crepuscular pattern. The 2 prominent activity peaks occurred just before light onset and offset. The copulatory pattern of N. alleni is characterized by no locking, no intravaginal thrusting, multiple intromissions preceding ejaculation, and multiple ejaculations. Several patterns of agonistic behavior and scent marking are frequently displayed.
24320075|At high laboratory densities, specifically 10 pair ( = one pair per 1.65 l water), melanotic male mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis holbrooki), which are extremely rare in nature, were highly aggressive to normal males and had a clear dominance advantage over normals. Although their sexual activity at the 10-pair level was also significantly higher than normals, it was unclear whether there was an actual mating advantage or any female choice involved. If it can be subsequently shown that females respond selectively to melanistics by exhibiting receptive behavior, particularly at higher densities, a case for sexual selection will have been established.
24320637|Observations were made on free-ranging, introduced troops of the vervet monkey (Cercopithecus aethiops) in the mangrove communities of southeastern Florida. The founder populations were animals released from unsuccessful tourist attractions. Census information was obtained for two troops. An analysis of the vervets' time budget shows resting (36.9%) and foraging (35.2%) predominate. The distribution data on food sources reveal a reliance on seeds (23.2%), flowers (21.8%), fruit (20.2%), and invertebrates (17.4%).
24320181|A new species of the satyrid butterfly genus Calisto is described from the interface between the Dominican Sierra de Yamas and the karst regions to the east of that range. The new species is apparently allied with other small lowland Calisto (hysia, confusa, batesi) and perhaps also with C. debarriera from the distal portion of the Haitian Tiburon Peninsula.
24321565|Jonas Kamlet, Ph.D., was a chemist, inventor, and a significant entrepreneur who founded Kamlet Laboratories in New York City that became the model of a successful consulting firm. Among his hundreds of patents and inventions were a tablet that could be used to measure glucose in urine, a treated strip that could detect pregnancy, a fodder for ruminants that used newsprint, and biuret (a self-condensation product of urea) that could be used as a non-protein component of fodder. Following his death in an airplane collision on December 16, 1960, his wife and collaborator (and later a resident of Florida) carried on the work of the firm until her retirement in about 1979.
24319949|Previous archaeological research on Safety Harbor (ca. A. D. 1000-1600) burial mounds has revealed that primary burials, when present, are often stratigraphically deeper than secondary interments. This has traditionally been viewed as diachronic evidence of changing burial practices. Results of recent excavations and critical review of earlier research indicate that the pattern is more likely due to burial of charnel structure contents at the death of an important individual. Functional hypotheses concerning isolated Safety Harbor burial mounds (primarily found north of Tampa Bay) are presented and evaluated in terms of present knowledge. The primary hypotheses are that the mounds were either used by specific kin-based groups (such as clans) or simply by residents of the surrounding area. Available ethnohistoric and archaeological evidence is summarized, and methods of testing the hypotheses with archaeological data are presented.
24321877|In 20042007, the beaches of Sanibel Island, Florida, were affected by large drifts of macroalgae that accumulated on shore. The adjacent seafloor is composed of three ecoregions: inshore, nearshore and offshore. To measure attached and unattached macroalgae on various substrata, two field survey methods were compared from 2008 to 2010 along thirteen 100 m long transects. One method used visual assessments of macroalgae in 1 m2 quadrats along the transects and one used an underwater camcorder to capture video footage along the transects. Results of each method were converted to percent cover of the transect and compared for each sampling date. The results showed that digital video observations were not significantly different than diver assessments for two of three ecoregions. Sparse amounts of macroalgae were underestimated nearshore using visual SCUBA, due to the inconsistent, but high percentage, of algae cover. Uses, advantages, disadvantages, and time-effectiveness of the two methods were compared. Natural resource managers can choose which survey method meets their scientific, management and budget needs. Based on these results, it is suggested that video analysis of bottom cover is a practical method for rapid, widespread assessment of macroalgae abundance surrounding Sanibel Island.
24321842|Florida apple snails (Pomacea paludosa) are critical to Florida wetland food webs. Past studies emphasized that large predators consumed relatively large specimens (> 20 mm shells) of these snails. Past studies also identified crayfish, fish, and turtles as predators of hatchling (3-6 mm) and juvenile-sized apple snails, but quantitative relationships between these predators and a range of sizes of apple snails are scant. We identified predators not yet reported in the literature: the Seminole killifish (Fundulus seminolis), bluegill (Lepomis macrochirus), greater siren (Siren lacertina), and non-indigenous Mayan cichlid (Cichlasoma urophthalmus). We quantified the relationship between predator size and maximum snail size consumed for the following predators: crayfish (Procambarus alleni), turtles (Kinosternon bauri and Sternotherus odoratus), and redear sunfish (Lepomis microlophus). Predator size explained 60% to 78% of the variation in prey size eaten (which ranged from 4 to 22 mm shell length). When offered multiple sizes of prey simultaneously, crayfish and turtles ate snails smaller than the maximum size they were capable of consuming. All size classes of apple snails could fall prey to a variety of predators common to Florida wetlands. Understanding apple snail population ecology requires additional studies to quantify predation impacts on juvenile snails from aquatic predators.
24320981|Sodium fluorosilicate, a by-product of the production of phosphoric acid, is a nuisance material because of the tendency to build up in pipes and the need to remove the material from pipes. This material can be managed by application of magnetic fields (anti-scale magnetic treatment, AMT) The effect is ascribed to an increase in entropy as a result of the field, and the entropy increase results in an increase in the solubility of the scale. This present study addresses the effect of a magnetic field on iron impurities in the scale. In the presence of a magnetic field, there was a shift of iron concentration to smaller size particles. The phenomenon could be helpful in removing iron from the phosphoric acid stream or in providing purified sodium fluorosilicate.
24319652|A marsh composed primarily of maidencane (Panicum hemitomon) and pickerelweed (Pontederia lanceolata) in the Kissimmee River floodplain was studied to determine the effects of fire on primary and secondary productivity. A 100 square meter plot was burned in June 1974 and a similar unburned plot was the control. Primary and secondary productivity were sampled bimonthly from August 1974 thru February 1975. An almost complete recovery of the vegetation in the burned plot occurred within 6 mo. Total numbers of both animal species and individuals were significantly greater in the burned plot than in the control plot. Burning is a useful management tool to increase secondary productivity in the Kissimmee River marshes.
24321537|Restoration of wetland plant communities on the Kissimmee River floodplain is expected to be driven by reestablishment of inundation regimes that were altered by channelization but is threatened by a recent invasion of the exotic Old World climbing fern, Lygodium microphyllum. This study documents the response of a mesophytic shrub community to increased hydroperiods and depths following implementation of the first phase of the Kissimmee River restoration project and assesses the effects of an associated herbicide (glyphosate) treatment of Lygodium infestations. Hydrologic restoration led to replacement of the mesophytic shrub community that was dominated by Myrica cerifera and understory ferns by a wetland community consisting of Ludwigia peruviana, floating aquatic species and the mat-forming emergent Scirpus cubensis. The herbicide treatment largely eliminated cover of Lygodium, and a wetland plant community with similar species composition and relative cover as nearby hydrologic restoration sites developed in the treated area. Results suggest complementarity between the hydrologic restoration plan for the Kissimmee River and herbicide treatments for exotics. Prolonged inundation regimes likely enhanced the success of the herbicide treatment while the elimination of Lygodium facilitated the hydrologic restoration trajectory of the wetland community.
44113155|Sceloporus woodi inhabits scrub habitats in central Florida. In Ocala National Forest, this lizard also inhabits longleaf pine sandhills that differ in vegetative structure and composition, yet little is known about the ecology of S. woodi in sandhills. We describe microhabitat use, behavior, diet, ectoparasite load, and morphology of S. woodi in sandhill habitat and compare these data to reference scrub populations. Microhabitat use was significantly different between habitats. Lizards in sandhills used trees most often, whereas lizards in scrub were found on the ground. Foraging behavior was similar between habitats, yet lizards exhibited less scanning (head movement) in scrub sites. Sandhill lizards had significantly lower body temperatures, consumed fewer prey types, and had lower ectoparasite loads than lizards in scrub. Morphologically, females in sandhill had longer limbs than females in scrub. Differences in ecology between sandhill and scrub habitats are likely related to differences in the vegetation structure, thermal biology, and/or predation rates between the two habitats. This study provides a foundation upon which to study linkages among salient ecological variables within and among populations.
24319986|Questionnaires were administered to 25 non-participants, 34 non-adherent participants, and 53 people who completed a cardiovascular risk reversal program. More than onethird of those encouraged to participate did not; another 25 percent did not continue participation in the multi-week program. The questionnaire concerned vital statistics, sociocultural factors, and health knowledge, behaviors, and attitudes. Results suggest that the program was effective. Those exposed to at least half of the program knew vital health and cardiovascular knowledge better than did non-participants. They were also significantly more social, considered themselves in better health, were less fatalistic and more frequent church attendants in comparison to non-participants. The large number of non-participants and non-adherent participants is probably the result of common motivational problems regarding preventive health behavior.
24319387|An experimental investigation of 16 different refrigerant-absorbent fluid pairs has been carried out in order to determine their suitability as the working fluid in a solar powered absorption cycle air conditioner. Criteria used in the initial selection of a refrigerant-absorbent pair included: High affinity (large negative deviation from Raoult's Law), high solubility, low specific heat, low viscosity, stability, corrosing, safety and cost. For practical solar considerations of a fluid pair, refrigerants were selected with low boiling points whereas absorbent fluids were selected with a boiling point considerably above that of the refrigerant. These additional restrictions are determined by the operating temperatures of the absorber and the generator of an absorption cycle air conditioning system. These temperatures were specified as 100F (39C) and 170F (77C). Data are presented for a few selected pressures at the specified absorber and generator temperatures.
24320633|Although Bufo quercicus is a generalized predator that accepts a wide variety of insects and spiders, it exhibits a preference for certain prey types. In adult toads, 69.8 - 84.0 % of the stomachs examined contained ants, depending on the season, followed by spiders (54.2 - 56.1 %), termites (24.6 - 26.5 %) and carabid beetles (24.6 - 36.1 %). The diet of juveniles is dominated by collembolans (87.3 - 91.3 %), ants (87.0 - 92.5 %), spiders (44.3 - 49.3 %) and mites (22.2 - 25.3 %). Mites and collembolans were absent from the stomachs of adults. Soft-bodied prey (crickets and spiders) are digested in 60 - 72 hr following ingestion at 25C, whereas it takes 96 hr for the digestion of more heavily chitinized insects.
24321272|The white vine (Sarcostemma clausuni), historically a minor component of Everglades macrophyte communities, has undergone extensive population growth in a nutrient-enriched region of Water Conservation Area 2A in the northern Florida Everglades. Much of the herbaceous underlying vegetation (primarily cattail) has been severely impacted or replaced by accumulation of the vine. Here we present initial data on approximate aerial coverage, shoot growth, standing biomass, tissue nutrient concentrations, and experimental responses to soil nutrients and water depth. The ecological significance of S. clausum proliferation and potential implications for Everglades restoration and management are discussed.
24321787|A 1992 survey of metal concentrations in sediments and clams from the Indian River Lagoon, Florida, was repeated during 20067. Concentrations of Cr, Ni, Se and V in sediments were at background values during both surveys with no indication of anthropogenic inputs. Average values for Ag, Cd and Zn in sediments, normalized to Al, were unchanged, but contamination was identified at several locations during both surveys. The proportion of sites with elevated values for sediment Cu, Hg and Pb increased between 1992 and 20067 from 22 to 65%, 9 to 35%, and 13 to 39%, respectively, with highest values near harbors and marinas. Concentrations of Hg and Zn exceeded sediment quality guidelines for an effects range low in the same two harbors during both surveys. Data from age-dated sediment cores collected in 20067 showed that Ag and Pb concentrations peaked during the 1970s whereas Cu values increased since the 1960s. For the clam Mercenaria mercenaria, mean values for Ag, Cd, and Zn were unchanged whereas mean concentrations of Cu and Pb were 3040% lower in 20067 due to an absence of clams near urban areas. Mean values for Hg, Se and V in clams were 2 times higher in 20067.
24321152|In terms of biomass, drift algal communities are often the dominant organisms in estuaries. On the east coast of central Florida, drift communities have been studied primarily in the southern reaches of the Indian River Lagoon system. To determine the abundance and diversity of floating drift macrophytes and associated fauna in Mosquito Lagoon, the northernmost region of the Indian River Lagoon, monthly observations were run for a 2-year period, beginning in April 1998. For each 24-hr sampling period, all drift was collected every 4 hr, brought into the laboratory, sorted by species, and weighed. Environmental data (salinity, wind speed, water motion, water and air temperatures) was also recorded every 4 hr. During the two-year survey, 26 species of drift macrophytes were collected in Mosquito Lagoon. Red algae of the genus Gracilaria and the seagrass Halodule wrightii were found in the greatest abundances, representing 51.7% and 23.7%, respectively, of all macrophyte biomass collected. Invertebrates and fishes (e.g. the code goby Gobiosoma robustum) were, at times, found in high densities attached or closely associated with these topographically complex, drift communities. No correlations between macrophyte abundance and wind speed or flow rate were found. Additionally, no consistent temporal patterns of macrophyte abundances were observed.
24319686|The exotic plants Casuarina equisetifolia and Melaleuca quinquenervia have become established in South Florida. The effect of these plants on the local fauna is not known. We studied the effects of Melaleuca and Casuarina on the 3 sympatric rodents (Peromyscus gossypinus, Sigmodon hispidus and Oryzomys palustris) found in the Everglades. Three study areas with different types of habitats were established. The habitats trapped included Casuarina heads, cocoplum heads, combination Casuarina and cocoplum heads, Melaleuca heads and mixed Melaleuca-graminoid heads. Sherman live traps baited with oats were set in 2 successive nights during each rotation. Casuarina habitats supported fewer rodents than either cocoplum or Melaleuca habitats. Rodents captured on the combination Casuarina-cocoplum head showed a clear preference for the cocoplum half. Peromyscus were found primarily in the interior of the mature Melaleuca head, while Oryzomys occurred primarily and Sigmodon exclusively in mixed Melaleuca-graminoid habitat. Frequency of recaptures of Peromyscus and Sigmodon indicated that each was resident in its preferred habitat.
24320445|Burrow structure and placement of Geolycosa xera are reported for the first time. Significant positive correlations between burrow characteristics and body size were found. Burrows constructed in the field tended to be more highly correlated to body size than burrows constructed in the laboratory. Mean distance from the burrow to the nearest burrow was 95.4 cm.
24321192|Organophosphate resistance of the Asiatic clam Corbicula fluminea and hooked mussel Ischadium recurvum were preliminarily assessed with diazinon and chlorpyrifos exposures. The diazinon 96-hour LC50 for I. recurvum was estimated to be 1,354 g/L with a 95% upper confidence limit (UCL) of 1,501 g/L and 95% lower confidence limit (LCL) of 1,041 g/L Chlorpyrifos appeared more toxic to I. recurvum than diazinon with an estimated 96-hour LC50 of 960 g/L (LCL of 890, UCL 1,040 g/L). C. fluminea was more tolerant with an estimated diazinon 96-hour LC50 of 4,067 g/L (LCL 2,847, UCL 5,814 g/L). The protectiveness of bivalve isolation through valve closure was examined in behaviorally regulated exposures that demonstrated noteworthy changes in tolerance of C. fluminea exposed to 15,251 g/L diazinon. An exposure duration thought to preclude bivalve self-isolation also indicated high organophosphate resistance with a 21-day diazinon LC50 estimation for C. fluminea of 548 g/L (LCL 455 g/L, UCL 658 g/L).
24320725|Growth (shell height), survival and reproductive development of bay scallops and levels of turbidity, total and volatile suspended solids, phytoplankton and chlorophyll a were monitored biweekly in Tampa Bay from Jun 30 to Oct 27, 1992. Cages (25 individuals per cage) were placed in seagrass and sand bottom areas at two locations: 1) Beacon Key (BK), south of Cockroach Bay and 2) Boca Ciega Bay (BCB), between Bunces and Maximo Passes. No significant differences (p = 0.05) were observed in growth between sand and grass at either location. Overall growth rate was significantly higher (p < 0.001) at BCB than BK. Overall survival was 31% at BCB and 15% at BK. No differential mortality was observed between sand and grass at BCB; mortality was greater in sand at BK. Water quality parameters were consistently higher at BK. Greatest mortality at BK (Oct 13) followed dramatic increases in turbidity (to 20.5 NTUs) and volatile suspended solids (to 16 mg/L) at this site. Overall mortality was associated with spawning at both sites. Funding was provided by the Tampa Bay National Estuary Program.
24320380|A three-year field survey of Florida interior sand pine scrubs, conducted by the first author and funded by the Florida Nongame Wildlife Program, has resulted in a better understanding of the distributions of many Central Florida scrub endemic plants. The status and distributions of 21 species (or varieties) of plants that are endemic (or nearly endemic) to the Lake Wales, Lake Henry, and Winter Haven ridges in central peninsular Florida are reported. Habitat notes, range extensions, and corrections of erroneous literature records are documented. Several species of scrub plants seem threatened with imminent extinction in the wild, and several others are rapidly approaching that condition.
24321196|Pinus clausa (Chapm. ex Engelm.) Vasey ex sargo. and Pinus elliottii, Engelm. ovulate/seed cones have distinctive developmental patterns and growth curves. This is determined by using a morphological key to identify seven cone stages based on umbo and apophysis color and appearance from the time of pollination to maturity. Pinus elliottii has its earliest and both of its latest stages with length growth significantly greater than width growth and one middle stage where the opposite is true. The length-width ratio, therefore, for P. elliottii, approximates an inverted bell-shaped growth curve, whereas cones of Pinus clausa, a sympatric species, has a length to width growth pattern that increases with each stage without marked spurts of growth. Therefore, its developmental pattern and growth curve approximates a linear curve. Both trees, therefore, can be recognized by growth patterns that may be considered universal for each species. Features of umbo, apophysis, cone development and growth are useful and reliable taxonomic characters that should accompany the suite of features used to identify each Pinus species. In addition, these features provide another taxonomic benefit, the recognition of pine hybrids in the field. This could be very useful economic information now with apparent global climatic changes. Some hybrids may exhibit growth vigor, whereas the parent species may be less adaptable.
24320704|Recently, demental carbon (EC) panicles have been found in the lungs of dolphins. The question arose as to whether these particles originated over land or water. This project undertook to determine the amount of particulate EC found in Florida's air. Portions of particulate filters and associated data collected during the period from 1/90 through 12/91 were provided by the Florida Department of Environmental Regulation. Using reflectance spectroscopy and laboratory-generated standards, atmospheric concentrations of EC were determined. These data are being used in a companion study to plot the temporal changes in EC concentration over the state; a "Carbon Map". This paper addresses the data from those counties which surround Tampa Bay.
24320503|Studies of water chemistry in the Hillsborough River led to an examination of the factors that might lead to production of nitrosoamines under environmentally simulated conditions in the laboratory. Nitrosoamines were determined by means of a chemiluminescence-based technique providing determination of nitrosoamine plus nitrite concentrations. Subtraction of nitrite ion concentration gave total nitrosoamine concentrations. The components of the study system consisted of nitrate -nitrogen (70 ppb), Hillsborough River sediment, and chelated-copper herbicide (a commercially available ethanolamine derivative, 4 ppm), adjusted to pH 6.6 in aqueous phase. Nitrosoamine production was not observed at 25C after about 10 days when all three components were present. No nitrite nor nitrosoamine formation was noted, or was below the sensitivity of the method (0.1 ng/sample), when chelated-copper was not present, when nitrate was not added to the system, or in the absence of sediment. The results indicate that the use of this chelated-copper herbicide does not lead to the formation of nitrosoamine under environmentally simulated conditions.
24320243|Green anoles, Anolis carolinensis, from Chatham and Liberty counties, Georgia, were examined for intestinal platyhelminths. Anoles from Chatham County harbored the trematode Alloglyptus crenshawi and the cestode Oochoristica anolis. Chatham County, Georgia, is a new locality record for O. anolis.
24319408|The species is reported for the first time from a tributary of the St. Johns River in Central Florida; flabelliform acicular setae were confirmatory taxonomic characteristics for species recognition.
24320202|Everglades mink (Mustela vison evergladensis) formerly were believed not to live in the true Everglades of eastern south Florida. Our data extends their known distribution to include this region.
24320203|A survey by livetrapping for Oryzomys argentatus was conducted in the Lower Keys of Florida. Results indicate that rice rats are extirpated from the type locality and do not occur on nearby islands. Reference to the recent changes in sea level suggests that the Lower Keys population of rice rats can be no older than 3000 yr. Reasons are given for assigning O. argentatus to a subspecific rank. A single extant population is known from Raccoon Key.
24321053|We evaluated the influence of post-fire recovery of vegetation (<6 mo., 2436 mo., and 48 mo.) and geometric distance (Dg) between receiver and transmitter on accuracy of locations estimated with hand-held radiotelemetry equipment in pine-dominated habitats in southwest Florida. We defined accuracy as linear error (E) from true location. Accuracy of radiotelemetry estimates was negatively influenced by post-fire recovery of vegetation, but mean E among post-fire recovery treatments did not differ greatly (2939 m), presumably due to the rapid recovery of fire-adapted vegetation. The influence of Dg on accuracy of estimates was similar to that of post-fire recovery at Dg < 250 m. Median linear error (Em) at Dg of 50149 m and 150249 m was 23 and 32 m and produced mean 95% confidence areas of 1.4 and 2.1 ha, respectively. Distance between receiver and transmitter had a pronounced negative effect on accuracy at Dg of 250351 m, with Em = 122 m and a mean 95% confidence area of 17.2 ha. Our findings confirmed that distance to transmitter is the most important factor influencing accuracy of location estimates when using hand-held telemetry in densely vegetated habitats and, more importantly, that accuracy declines rapidly at Dg > 250 m. Our study does not replace the need for researchers to develop general estimates of accuracy when conducting radiotelemetry studies, but provides information on the approximate levels of accuracy that can be anticipated and of the variables that most influence accuracy when using hand-held equipment in forested habitats in south Florida. The information we provide will assist researchers in designing studies that include equipment and budgets capable of accomplishing study objectives.
24319764|Despite seemingly adequate provisioning, free-ranging rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) at Silver Springs, Florida continually supplement their diet with foraged food including 48 species of plants, soil and occasionally insects. All age, sex and status classes forage although not all foraging behavior yields an obvious nutritional benefit. The nutritional significance of this behavior deserves further investigation. The implications of foraging by provisioned monkeys may extend beyond nutritive need and provide a basis for understanding the origin of grooming.
24320165|The report of a resident population of the Jamaican fig-eating bat (Chiroptera, Phyllostomidae: Artibeus jamaicensis) in Florida bij Lazell and Koopman (1985) is unsubstantiated. The photograph on which this report is based is of a phyllostomid bat, but it cannot be identified. No population has been found.
24319522|Myrsine guianensis (Aubl.) Kuntz (Myrsine) and Ardisia escallonioides Schlecht and Cham. (Marlberry) support development of Aleurocanthus woglumi Ashby to the adult stage and are native to southern Florida. Ardisia solanacea Roxb., Schinus terebinthifolius Raddi (Brazilian Pepper Tree) and Eugenia uniflora L. (Surinam Cherry) are naturalized plants which also support complete A. woglumi development. Citrus spp. and these native or naturalized plants, which support complete development are considered as potential refugia of A. woglumi and can affect the chances of its eradication.
24321874|The Southwest Florida Water Management District funded salinity regression modeling for the determination of minimum flows of the tidal Myakka River. Selected isohaline (1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 20, and 24 PSU) locations were modeled as a function of weather terms, tidal conditions, and a variety of weighted daily flows of the Myakka River near Sarasota, FL, the tributary Myakkahatchee Creek, and the Peace River near Arcadia. Peace River flows were included due to potential influence on downriver boundary conditions. The most influential variables were variably weighted flow terms, weighted over periods based on both flow and the riverine volume upstream of the computed isohaline location. Adjusted multiple r2 of the regressions for 8 PSU and lower isohaline locations were 0.80 or better (n70100). Regressions were validated with a subset of data withheld from regression development. Regressions were used to simulate time series of isohaline positions under both existing flows and potential flow reductions. Changes in isohaline locations could then be used to evaluate amounts of critical habitats (benthic, freshwater marsh, forested wetlands) exposed to salinity intervals, to compute the projected changes in isohaline locations under reduced flow scenarios, and to balance projected flow reductions with potential habitat alterations.
24321801|Breaching is a behavior observed in numerous marine vertebrate species, and is typically associated with feeding, predator avoidance, parasite removal, or signaling. Few shark species have been documented to display natural breaching behavior unassociated with hook and line capture. We describe observations of breaching by juvenile bull sharks, Carcharhinus leucas, in the Indian River Lagoon, Florida. Breaching is not a behavior typically associated with bull sharks, and has led to species misidentifications in the past. The behavior was observed on 18 occasions over a two-year period in the study site, including a day in which 11 breaches were observed in a small estuarine creek. Conditions that appear to promote breaching behavior in bull sharks are identified, and potential motivations are discussed.
24321402|The Black Spinytail Iguana (Ctenosaura similis) was monitored at Bill Baggs Cape Florida State Park (CFSP), an urban park in southern Florida, for three years subsequent to a two-year Raccoon (Procyon lotor) removal program. Although far less abundant than the Green Iguana (Iguana iguana) at the same site, the Black Spinytail Iguana responded in similar fashion to Raccoon removal with increasing numbers of individuals and smaller size-classes. The Raccoon, a well known predator of vertebrate eggs, including those of the Black Spinytail Iguana, and of young Green Iguanas, is thought to be a limiting predator of this species at CFSP. The response by this lizard to removal of its predator should be kept in mind when management decisions concerning overabundant Raccoons are being contemplated on managed lands.
24321926|Initiated by the Key Biscayne Community Foundation, the Key Biscayne resident survey was conducted to gage opinions on the most important natural resource issues of the Key in view of increasing natural and anthropogenic stressors. The results are being used to develop goals for a citizen scientist project directed at protecting the resources of Key Biscayne. An Internet-based survey sent to 8,000 residents resulted in the completion of 735 (9.25%) responses. Overall, the respondents were well educated and share concerns about the local environment. About half of those who took the survey were willing to participate in future monitoring and data collection indicating that a community-based citizen science program could provide long-term benefits for the Key's coastal and marine resources. The survey results set the initial direction for the Key Biscayne Citizen Scientist Project. The main interest of respondents (77%) was increased educational opportunities. An educational web site, lectures and field trips were instituted to satisfy this requirement, with the emphasis of these activities on beaches, water quality, green spaces and trail use. Future activities will address scientific issues relative to these assets.
24321558|We report here on the results of French 2-tier box trap horse fly and deer fly (Diptera: Tabanidae) collections obtained from Bay County, FL. Over 10,000 specimens were collected representing 6 genera and 43 species. A paucity of documented taxonomic material exists on this group of biting pests in northwestern Florida. This paper provides a historical checklist of the tabanids collected in this county and includes new locality records for 33 species.
24321912|Our results indicate that the acetolactate synthase (ALS) is uncommon in the foliage of Old World climbing fern (Lygodium microphyllum; OWCF). We were unable to isolate the ALS enzyme in six of nine samples tested. Our results using an in vitro ALS assay indicates that metsulfuron is effective at blocking the ALS enzyme in OWCF under lab conditions at rates as low as 100 g/l (100 ppb). This may explain the high susceptibility of OWCF to metsulfuron under field conditions. We hypothesize that exposing the plants to full sunlight 2448 hours prior to the assay may increase ALS enzyme activity in the meristematic tissue instead of sampling from plants grown in greenhouse conditions under 50% shade. The dose response curve for OWCF with the ALS bioassay for metsulfuron can be used as baseline data in the future to compare if potential resistant populations of OWCF are detected.
24321583|Larvae of the biting midge genus Dasyhelea in artificial containers in the Florida Keys occur more commonly with larvae of Aedes aegypti than Culex quinquefasciatus. A new Florida county record for Dasyhelea pseudoincisurata Waugh & Wirth is reported from Geneva, Seminole County, only the fourth county record for this species in Florida.
24319629|Systematic survey of the Oldsmar and Pass-a-Grille Beach Quadrangles added 46 prehistoric sites to 72 already known. A plea is made for consideration of the sites as natural resources to be preserved.
24319982|The yeast communities of decaying cladodes and fruits of two large stands of Opuntia stricta in the area of Cape Canaveral, Florida, were investigated. The yeast community was comparable in many ways with those of O. stricta in the Caribbean and in Australia. Many important differences were observed as well, some of which may be attributable to the absence, in Florida, of Cactoblastis cactorum, a moth used extensively elsewhere for the biological eradication of prickly pear cactus as a weed.
24319813|Five collections of attached diatoms and other algae obtained during warm and cold seasons yielded 111 species. Seventy-nine percent were diatoms, the rest blue-green, green, red, and brown algae. During the warmer months, most species occurred on leaves of 3 seagrasses; the least number was on smooth cordgrass (Spartina alterniflora) stems, mangrove (Avicennia germinans) pneumatophores and oyster shells. During most of the coldest months, a reversal of this distribution was observed which was attributed to disappearance of most seagrass leaves during the winter.
24320974|The semaphore cactus in the Florida Keys has until recently been considered a disjunct location of the Jamaican Opuntia spinosissima. Loss of all but one population in the Keys coupled with recent suggestions that the species should be taxonomically separated from the Jamaican cactus and is, therefore, a Florida Keys endemic, makes this population of conservation concern. Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis was conducted on the remaining 12 individual large stems in the wild to determine whether this small population contains multiple genotypes. Other accessions of the cactus, mainly from private collections and from the Caribbean were also included. Analysis of 42 RAPD markers reveals that all Florida accessions are closely related, with unique genotypes being separated by differences at only one to as many as five polymorphic markers (2411.9% of markers). Within the wild population, seven genotypes could be uniquely identified. The Jamaican accession was separated from the Florida cacti by an average of 22 marker differences (52.3% of the markers). The difference of the Florida accessions from the Jamaican accession by a large number of markers suggests possible species-level differentiation, providing additional supportive evidence that the Keys population may be one of the rarest and most threatened plants in the continental United States.
24319831|Seasonal variation in zooplankton abundance and diversity in Spring Lake, Florida was studied between 1973 and 1976. This clear, sand bottom lake is among Florida's lakes that have the highest water quality. The zooplankton community in Spring Lake was characterized by low abundance (monthly means < 100 individuals/1) and high Shannon diversity (monthly means were 3.0-4.0). A rich rotifer fauna was mainly responsible for variation in monthly mean values for the Shannon and Simpson indices. Eighty-three zooplankton species were collected: 60 were rotifers, 16 were cladocerans, and 7 were copepods. Forty-one zooplankton species (27 rotifers, 7 cladocerans, and 7 copepods) were common between years. The pattern of low abundance and high diversity for the zooplankton in Spring Lake is considered an indication of oligotrophic-like conditions.
44113158|Ambystoma bishopi (reticulated flatwoods salamander) is federally endangered and one of two flatwoods salamanders that occur in the longleaf pine ecosystem. Both species are experiencing population declines attributed to habitat loss and degradation. Flatwoods salamanders are fossorial for much of the year. Little information is available on habitat structures used by these species when they are in breeding wetlands, although they are found in association with crayfish burrows. We evaluated the number and sizes of burrow entrances used by, and available to, A. bishopi in two breeding wetlands on Eglin Air Force Base, Okaloosa County, FL. During the 2011-12 winter breeding season, we followed 38 adult salamanders using fluorescent powder and/or passive integrated transponder (PIT) tags and documented use of burrows. We surveyed transects in March, after a prescribed burn, to estimate the density and diameters of burrow entrances available. We tracked more salamanders to burrows, and tracked them longer distances (11.9 meters post-burn compared to 1.9 meters pre-burn), after a prescribed burn consumed the dense herbaceous vegetation. Salamanders used burrow entrances 6.9-45.4 millimeters in diameter. The density of burrow entrances was 0.6/m-2.8/m and was higher in areas with more grass hummocks. Further research is needed to determine the importance of burrows to survival and reproduction.
24321120|Increasing human population growth has put pressure on converting marginal soils to productive farmland. Since many soils are deficient in certain essential nutrient elements, slow-release, granular singular superphosphate fertilizers could be compounded containing adequate amounts of all elements needed not only for crops produced but also for people subsisting on these crops. If this were done, increased food supplies and healthier human populations should result.
24320586|This is the first report of a mass stranding of Leach's Storm-Petrel, Oceanodroma leucorhoa, along the southeast United States coast and the first onshore record for the species in Georgia. Seventy-two birds were found on the beaches of Cumberland Island and Little Cumberland Island, Georgia during a 12-day period (22 May-2 June 1991). Strandings were documented between St. Catherines Island, Georgia and St. Augustine, Florida.
24321248|The sociobiology of Florida Key deer (Odocoileus virginianus clavium) appears to have changed in recent years. It has been hypothesized that supplemental feeding has increased deer use of urban areas. We evaluated and categorized Key deer (n = 132) behavior in urban areas. We found feeding was the most frequent (4954%) behavior observed followed by moving (2023%), standing (14 17%) and bedding (812%). In comparing types of feeding behavior, we found feeding on native vegetation was more frequently observed (P < 0.001) than other feeding behaviors, including illegal feeding by tourists. Illegal feeding during the 6-month tourist season (OctMar) increased (+25%) as expected, whereas native feeding behavior decreased (-21%). We propose that illegal feeding is more an opportunistic behavior in Key deer rather than the primary reason in use of urban areas. We recommend that public outreach and law enforcement efforts discourage illegal feeding of this endangered deer herd and that efforts focus on tourists rather than local residents.
24321644|Estuarine zooplankton, hyperbenthos and nekton often move upstream in response to reduced freshwater inflows. In estuaries with drowned-river-mouth morphologies, this upstream movement repositions organisms within estuarine reaches that have reduced volumes. The movement into more volumetrically confined habitats and into areas near water-control structures raises concerns about habitat compression and associated reductions in estuarine carrying capacity, particularly if this trend is associated with excessive freshwater withdrawal. We present a simple method for identifying habitat compression along the longitudinal estuarine axis and apply it to faunal transect surveys of several west-central Florida tidal rivers. Regression was used to compare the length (km) of the interdecile range (10th90th cumulative abundance percentiles) under variable freshwater inflow conditions. The use of quantiles frees the analysis from assumptions about the shape of longitudinal abundance distributions. We demonstrate how his approach can also be used to identify sampling artifacts and to quantify the extent of impingement on estuarine dams. In estuaries that have strong seasonal variation in inflow, useful results can be obtained with <2 yrs of monthly transect data. This method offers promise as a tool for inflow management in estuaries where long-term abundance data are not available.
24321376|A study was conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of the herbicide active ingredient metsulfuron methyl for controlling the invasive Old World climbing fern Lygodium microphyllum and to determine injury to the non-target, native species Panicum hemitomon. Based on visual ratings, metsulfuron methyl provided 94% control of L. microphyllum 23 months after two applications of 84 g a.i./ha, while 67% control was observed in plots treated twice with 42 g a.i./ha (LSD .05 = 10). Eighty three percent control was observed 18 months after application in plots treated only once with 84 g a.i./ha. Twenty eight months after the final herbicide application, L. microphyllum dry weight was not different in treated plots compared to untreated plots. Based on visual observations, injury to P. hemitomon was not observed in these same plots, and biomass, though highly variable, was not reduced in treated plots compared to untreated plots. A separate study was conducted to determine injury to Cladium jamaicense, which is a dominant non-target, native plant in some habitats invaded by L. microphyllum. Visual injury to C. jamaicense was not observed during a complete growing season after treatment with up to 168 g a.i./ha metsulfuron methyl. After cutting of C. jamaicense the following growing season, regrowth in plots treated with 42, 84, or 168 g a.i./ha metsulfuron methyl was 164, 124, and 126 g/m2, respectively, and was not significantly reduced compared to untreated plots that contained 181 g/m2 of regrowth (LSD .05 = 62). Results of this study indicate that metsulfuron methyl applied at a rate of 84 g a.i./ha will subdue growth of L. microphyllum for at least one growing season and two consecutive applications will offer slightly greater control. However, complete control is not achieved and additional control measures will be required to keep growth in check. C. jamaicense, or P. hemitomon, which are common non-target plant species in some habitats where L. microphyllum has invaded will not be affected and permanent damage will not occur to Cephalanthus occidentalis when metsulfuron methyl is applied for control of L. microphyllum.
24319654|A survey based on personal interviews was conducted throughout the range of the Big Cypress fox squirrel (Sciurus niger avicennia). The subspecies is widespread in its original range, occurring in Hendry, Lee, Collier, Monroe, and northwestern Dade counties. The squirrels are rare and populations have very low density. The survey accounted for 340 squirrels, and presumably additional undetected individuals exist. The squirrels occupied cypress forest, pine savanna, tropical hardwood forest, oak savanna, mangrove forest, and suburban habitats; individuals may require more than one habitat. We recommend reclassification as a threatened subspecies and stronger protection from hunting.
24319395|During 1975, 14 incidents of moderate to severe ciguatera intoxication involving 76 adults of Greater Miami came to our attention. Eight individuals who had ingested black and yellow fin grouper caught in Bahamian and Florida coastal waters complained particularly of severe pain in the jaw bones (primarily lower jaw), teeth, and throat, which lasted, in three of the subjects, for approximately 5 mo. Portions of the fish which caused these intoxications were fed to beagle dogs which developed marked fibrous dysplasia of the lower jaw bone with reabsorption of the peridontal membrane and lamina dura. Another dog demonstrated reabsorption of bone at the apex of each individual mature tooth root. Blood chemical studies revealed reduction in blood calcium, phosphorus, and alkaline phosphatase. These studies appear to lend support to the theory that there may be a relationship between the pain in the jaw bones and teeth of the human subjects and the reabsorption and arrest of bone growth noted in the dogs.
24321064|Drift fences with funnel traps were used to survey the herpetofauna of sandhill, xeric hammock, and basin marsh habitats at Chinsegut Nature Center, Hernando County, Florida. Xeric upland habitats were trapped for a total of 375 days in 199596 and 1998. The second year of the study differed in that animals were marked and pitfall traps were added. We trapped or observed two salamander, 15 anuran, five turtle, one crocodilian, seven lizard, and 17 snake species. Particularly noteworthy captures were four eastern tiger salamanders (Ambystoma t. tigrinum), 143 Florida gopher frogs (Rana capito aesopus), and one short-tailed snake (Stilosoma extenuatum). Recapture rates during the second year of the study ranged from 0% to 13.0% for anuran species and 6.4% to 48.8% for lizard species. Six species were significantly more common in sandhill than in xeric hammock, particularly the six-lined racerunner (Cnemidophorus s. sexlineatus), and nine species were more common in xeric hammock than in sandhill. Differences in certain habitat characteristics and proximity to the marsh probably determined the abundance of some species at arrays. Terrestrial arrays nearest the marsh tended to capture more amphibians, many of which were postmetamorphic. During both years, significantly more juveniles than adults were trapped for six anuran species, whereas >70% of all captures of six other anuran species were adults. Five anuran species were more abundant in upland habitats during the first year, when substantially more rain fell, but barking treefrogs (Hyla gratiosa) and bullfrogs (Rana catesbeiana) were more abundant during the second year. The six-lined racerunner was the only reptile species whose abundance differed between years. Despite past stocking of game fish into May Prairie, fishes had apparently been eliminated by subsequent drought(s), which allowed successful reproduction by amphibian species that typically use small, temporary wetlands. Anurans and reptiles more characteristic of permanent wetlands were also present. Results of this study underscore the importance of xeric hammocks to some species (especially postmetamorphic anurans) and of maintaining fish-free wetlands.
24319419|A group of bass exposed to black sided aquaria darkened and fed poorly; those exposed to white sided aquaria were paler and fed well but, when backgrounds were reversed, anticipated response to black background was minimal.
24319502|Knowledge of rates of evapotranspiration and their variation within Florida is necessary for development of a rational water resources management program for the state. A method is presented for use of temperature and precipitation data to determine spatial distribution of average annual rates of evapotranspiration across Florida. Although the method gives only a first order approximation of true distribution, it has practical utility for water resources management.
24320560|The responses of three amphibian and two reptilian species to Hurricane Andrew were recorded in an urban setting. Immediate responses to the hurricane boded well for species with a high colonizing potential. Short-term effects of the hurricane were beneficial for all but Anolis equestris. Anurans especially benefitted by stimulation to breed and by the creation of suitable egglaying sites. Cleanup activities by humans have altered long-term effects of the hurricane and minimized short-term benefits associated with the newly created habitats and/or breeding sites made available to most of these colonizing species following the hurricane. Cleanup activities notwithstanding, responses confirmed expectations of successful colonizers historically tied to hurricanes.
24321028|The relationship between oral jaw biomechanics and consumption of hard prey was compared between Gulf of Mexico (Gulf) and Atlantic Ocean (Atlantic) populations of gray triggerfish (Balistes capriscus) to examine intraspecific ecomorphological variation between these fish. Gut content analysis revealed that Atlantic fish fed more on hard-shelled invertebrates, such as crabs and sea urchins, than Gulf conspecifics. Difference in the relative magnitude of durophagy between Gulf and Atlantic triggerfish was associated with intraspecific differences in key biomechanical properties of the prey-capture and processing mechanism. The more durophagous Atlantic B. capriscus had more massive jaw bones and muscles than Gulf fish. The mechanical advantage of the lower jaw appeared to be less reflective of the dietary differences between fish from both locations. We hypothesize that B. capriscus has the ability to alter the development of its feeding mechanism to match the requirements for capturing and processing locally available prey-resources at post-recruitment habitats in the Atlantic and Gulf coasts of Florida.
24320409|A one-dimensional model of circulation and salinity transport within the Indian River lagoon system is presented. The model is based on the cross-sectionally averaged continuity equation, momentum equation, mass conservation equation for salt, and equation of state. A fractional step method and time-implicit scheme are used in the finite-difference model. The model is used to examine the role of pure barotropic tidal hydrodynamics and to explore the time scales of salinity transport in the lagoon. Model simulation of barotropic tidal circulation in Indian River lagoon successfully reproduced the water level measured during a 3-day episode in September 1984. Model simulation of tide-induced salinity transport in Indian River lagoon indicates a very long response time on the order of 100 tidal cycles. The presence of a uniform wind stress of 1 dyne/cm2 from the South enhances the salinity transport and reduces the response time to 10 to 20 tidal cycles. Results indicate that long-term flow and salinity data are needed for understanding and modeling the circulation and salinity transport within the Indian River lagoon.
24319644|A pair of asymmetrical twin turtles is described and illustrated. Twinning in which 2 completely separate individuals have been produced, and eggs in which 2 or more blastodiscs have been reported are discussed. A summary of all previously published accounts of chelonian twinning is presented.
24319696|Variation in plantar tubercles of Peromyscus floridanus was reported. The typical number was 5 per hind foot; however, the number present may range from 3-6. A tendency was demonstrated for an additional pad to be present on mice of sand-pine-scrub habitats. The additional pad may be adaptive where climbing is advantageous.
24319557|Six species of seagrasses are found in the Indian River with Syringodium filiforme and Halodule wrightii being the most abundant. S. filiforme exhibits a disjunct distribution within the study area. Drift algae accumulations, difficult to distinguish from grassbeds by aerial photoanalysis alone, are extensive in some locations and apparently play an important role in the River's total ecosystem. Over the last 30 yr the Indian River has not experienced major seagrass bed losses documented in other estuaries.
24319714|X-ray powder diffraction patterns and related data are presented for 6 phosphate minerals. The existing X-ray data for these minerals are inferior and the information presented here should serve as a much improved standard for identification.
24320768|In 1994, nesting by the green turtle (Chelonia mydas) was documented for the first time along the southwest coast of Florida. Twenty-nine nests were recorded in five southwest Florida counties. At least seven to ten turtles were thought to be responsible for this nesting activity. Green turtle nesting was also discovered in three Panhandle counties where it had not been previously reported. Overall, the number of counties in Florida where green turtle nesting had been documented increased during 1994 from 14 to 22. Evidence is presented that green turtles had nested in southwest Florida in 1992 but that these nests had been missed by surveys. One green turtle was tagged and mistakenly identified as a loggerhead while nesting on the southwest coast in 1992. This turtle was subsequently observed nesting on the east coast in 1994, suggesting that the green turtles that nest on the west coast may be a part of the much larger aggregation of turtles that nest on the east coast. The fact that green turtles nest on the southwest coast of Florida shows that this species does indeed nest along low-energy coastlines and shows that nesting surveys may not always detect nesting by rare species.
24321412|Biogeographical distributions of Harmful Algal Bloom (HAB) species has become an increasing important issue in light of the serious economic and health impacts they can have on coastal environments. Until the current study, the presence of the HAB species Pyrodinium bahamense had not been documented in the St. Lucie Estuary. In the current study, five sites in the inner and outer St. Lucie estuary were sampled monthly from June 2005- September 2006. P. bahamense was observed at two sites, in the outer reaches of the St. Lucie Estuary. Vegetative stages were observed at both sites and the hypnozygote cyst stage was observed at the outermost site. The region of the estuary where P. bahamense was observed is characterized by short water residence times and mesohaline salinities. The abundances of P. bahamense observed in the St. Lucie Estuary were similar to those observed in the mid Indian River Lagoon near the Sebastian Inlet, but much lower than those found in the northern lagoon.. The observation of resting cysts of P. bahamense in the St. Lucie Estuary suggests that a seed bank for this species exists in the region.
24320664|Analysis of a simple classroom physics demonstration indicates that conservation of angular momentum can lead to conservation of energy. Interpreted within the framework of Noether's Theorem, this result suggests a classical connection between the properties of space and the properties of time.
24320492|In 1987-88, 14 populations of the gopher tortoise, Gopherus polyphemus (Daudin), residing on federal lands in Florida were surveyed. These populations had been surveyed in 1978-79. For the five lands for which surveys could be compared, it was found that the percent of burrows that were active increased on one of the lands, decreased on another, and remained about the same on the other three. No systematic differences in size distributions between surveys were correlated with the changes in the percent of burrows that were active. For two sites that were sampled completely, Everglades National Park and J.N. "Ding" Darling National Wildlife Refuge, the data permitted a more precise evaluation of the differences in size distributions between surveys. This evaluation clearly illustrated that substantial, and potentially detrimental, changes in population structure have taken place on at least one federal land. Because at least one population appeared to have declined, residence on "protected" land cannot be assumed to assure the continued existence of a population. It follows that gopher tortoise populations even on reserves need continuous monitoring and management to prevent their decline.
24319428|Eleven species and three varieties of Ilex are recognized for Florida. Keys, brief descriptions, pertinent synonymy, local uses, and distribution maps are provided for each taxon. The new combination Ilex ambigua var. monticola is proposed.
24320224|An analysis of soils from a high marsh and low marsh in northwestern Florida showed that they contained large amounts of sand, and were low in cation exchange capacity and exchangeable cations. The soils examined contained high levels of soluble salts. Soils from the low marsh had higher cation exchange capacities than did the layers below.
24321648|Lake Hancock is situated in the headwaters of the Peace River, and is identified as having an impact on water quality within the Peace River and Charlotte Harbor. Water quality in Lake Hancock has been verified as impaired for nutrients by the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, due to levels of total nitrogen, total phosphorus and biological oxygen demand that exceed the State of Florida's threshold values for impairment. This study examined the potential benefits of sediment removal on water quality in Lake Hancock. The project included two field experiments: (1) a manipulative experiment to determine if a reduction in nutrient availability could result in decreases in blue-green algal vigor and/or abundance and (2) a manipulative mesocosm experiment designed to evaluate whether partial removal of the lake's sediments would result in improvements in water quality. The findings were consistent with the hypothesis that Lake Hancock is a net sink for phosphorus loads that accumulate in the sediments and the lake is a net source of nitrogen which is exported from the lake. Only by reducing TP loads from both external and internal loading sources could TP levels be reduced to biologically relevant levels.
24320785|Turtle Mound, located 13 km south of New Smyrna Beach, Volusia County, Florida, is a shell midden built by the Timucua Indians. Its vegetation and soil were studied in 1971-73 and again twenty years later. Recent severe freezes have led to the disappearance of several tropical species that were at or near their northern limit. These include the following taxa: Cereus gracilis var. simpsonii; Exothea paniculata; Sideroxylon foetidissimum, Ocotea coriacea and Schoepfia chrysophylloides. However, frequency of more temperate woody plants has increased along with several vines, (Cissus trifoliata, Cynanchum scoparium, Parthenocissus quinquefolia, and Ipomea indica).
24319571|Fluorescent antibody reactivity of yeast phase cell walls of Histoplasma capsulatum hydrolyzed in mild acid decreases rapidly to a point of no reactivity, then reappears upon continued hydrolysis. Rate of decrease as well as intensity of the returned fluorescence depends upon the normality of the acid used. As the fluorescent antibody reactivity of the walls decreased, material released into the supernates of hydrolysis inhibited passive hemagglutination of histoplasmin-sensitized sheep erythrocytes and inhibited the fluorescence of unhydrolyzed cell walls. These activities disappeared with continued hydrolysis and did not reappear with the return of fluorescence of the hydrolyzed cell walls.
24320190|Previous estimates of hydrogen fluoride fluxes from cooling and gypsum settling ponds associated with the manufacture of phosphate fertilizer are reviewed and a theoretical estimate based on vapor pressures of HF-H20 solutions is presented. The latter yields fluxes from 122 to 195 kg HF/day for a 450 metric ton P2O5/day plant. Sixty percent or more of the total plant release of HF is due to the ponds. Derived atmospheric residence times for HF (1 to 5 hr.) indicate that fluoride is dispersed throughout Central Florida at ppb levels in the particulate form and may be an environmental hazard to adjacent agricultural industry.
24319675|The Syllabus-Notebook method of presenting the "Big Ideas" in the physical sciences has resulted in improved performance by students enrolled to meet general education requirements.
24319458|A live, but injured, gravid female ca. 3 m long had ovaries 77 cm  7.7 cm containing ca. 139,000 eggs averaging 2.57 mm diam.
24320344|Copper, iron and zinc concentrations were determined for muscle, gill and liver tissue from 45 black mullet (Mugil cephalus) collected in Turkey Creek, an embayment of the Indian River Lagoon, Florida. In the liver, Fe concentrations (2420  1040 g/g, dry wt) were higher than for Cu (510  350 g/g) and Zn (330  120g/g). Gill tissue iron levels (380  140 g/g) were greater than those for Zn (96  26 g/g) and Cu (6.3  4.4 g/g). Muscle tissue concentrations were lowest with Fe values (19  15 g/g) greater than those for Zn (13.5  4.9 g/g) and Cu (1.1  1.6 g/g). Significant correlations were observed for Cu, Fe and Zn in the gills, and Fe and Cu, and Fe and Zn in the liver. Metal concentrations generally did not covary with whole fish wt or length. Cu, Fe and Zn in the muscle and Cu in the gills show differing degrees of non-normal, positive skewness.
24320149|The Carrefour Raymond Marble, which is mined in the vicinity of Jacmel, is one of Haiti's better known commercial marbles. Technically, it is not a marble because it has not been metamorphosed. Rather, it is a limestone breccia composed of highly angular fragments of white limestone in a reddish-brown calcareous matrix. The white limestone fragments have been derived from the adjacent mountain front, which is composed of massive, gray-weathering Eocene limestones. The marble's matrix is composed of secondary calcite and a residual red clay that was derived from the upland plateaus. It is proposed that the marble originated from clay and limestone fragments accumulated in the solution holes of a karst topography. The resulting limestone breccia was subsequently cemented by secondary calcite, leached from the surrounding limestones by rain and underground water and then precipitated in the interstices of the breccia during dry periods. The marine fossils that are occasionally found in the Carrefour Raymond Marble are thought to have been derived from elevated marine terraces that once lay higher on the mountainside.
24319383|Promotion of cheap electricity and gas for mass-produced water heaters in the post World War II era led to the demise of the solar energy industry in Florida. The recent OPEC oil crisis precipitated renewed interest in solar energy for many uses. Solar water heaters are a mainstay for domestic users and construction materials, design parameters and designs are provided with notice of limitations of each type. Flat plate collectors have advantages over concentrating collectors for domestic use but are more limited in applications where temperatures more than 180F are required. Beyond domestic water heating, solar energy can be stored for cooking or for heating and cooling a house but these uses are not yet cost-competitive with fossil fuels. Recovery of potable water by solar stills has been important in the past and is re-emerging with some urgency as population pressure creates increasing demands on available supplies. Entry of new disciplines into consideration of solar energy holds promise for expanded exploitation of our only continuously renewed natural resourcethe sun.
24320210|Site-season combinations were sought which might reduce the invasion potential of the exotic tree, melaleuca (Melaleuca quinquenervia), by subjecting germinants to lethal stresses. Seeds were sown 12 times during a 15-mo period on 2 study sites in an undrained area of Lee County, Florida. The sites represented the wet and dry ends of an ecotone between cypress (Taxodium spp.) and slash pine (Pinus elliottii var densa) communities. No season was totally lethal at either site, based on seedling presence 5 mo after sowing. Establishment was never dense, but was rarely zero. Some seeds germinated 6 mo after the majority of seeds in the same sowing. Freely available moisture was essential for germination and establishment  prolonged surface flooding was inhibitory. All seedlings grew slowly. A management strategy is suggested to minimize the invasion potential from isolated melaleuca seedtrees.
24320945|The phosphorus (P) requirement of the dioecious submersed aquatic plant hydrilla [Hydrilla verticillata (L.f.) Royle], was studied by culturing plants from vegetative propagules in nutrient solutions simulating natural levels and containing bicarbonate and 0, 2, or 4 M P concentrations. Plants were harvested after 14, 21, 28, 35 and 50 days growth in order to follow the effects of the treatments on the time course of growth and P and bicarbonate utilization. The dry weight, total P accumulation, and bicarbonate utilization of plants increased with greater concentrations of P in solutions and longer growth time. Bicarbonate utilization was significantly related to increase in plant dry weight and P accumulation. The accumulation of P in tissue was proportional to concentration of P in solution. The total P content of plants grown without added P remained constant through 7 weeks of growth. The P reserves in the propagules of these plants were sufficient to produce a dry matter yield of 1127 mg after 50 days. The addition of 1.3 mg P in the 2 M P treatments produced a 57% increase in yield over the same time period, or nearly 500 mg tissue per mg of added P. Approximately 72% of the P supplied in solution was absorbed by the plants in both the 2 and 4 M P treatments. The results of this study suggest that hydrilla has a low requirement for P and is able to utilize bicarbonate as a carbon source for photosynthesis.
24320215|Sand pine and sandhill forests were compared with regard to the rates of litter-fall, litter standing crop, and litter turnover. Litter-fall rates in the sand pine and sandhill were low (330 and 278 g/m2yr, respectively), litter standing crop was high (averaging 1367 and 842 g/m2, respectively), and litter turnover rate was low (0.21 and 0.33 times/yr, respectively). These results and the simple structure of the forests were attributed to the extreme harshness of their respective environments (low nutrient concentrations in soils, water stress, and fires). However, the pattern of litter-fall was different in the 2 forests, probably reflecting different responses to fire frequency and nutrient availability. The sandhill forest retained its leaves longer and dropped them over a longer time period than did the sand pine forest. Because fires are more frequent in sandhill environments and because the forest floor of sandhills is exposed to more wind than that of sand pine forests, it is suggested that this strategy of leaf retention is advantageous for maintaining nutrients within the ecosystem.
24320123|The first specimen of the silver-haired bat, Lasionycteris noctivagans, ever taken in Florida was recorded near the Escambia River, 5 miles west of Jay in Santa Rosa County on September 6, 1985. It is a young adult female taken in a mist net, and extends the known geographical range of Lasionycteris noctivagans southward about 110 miles into a new state.
24320459|The zooplankton of two impounded salt marshes and that of shallow areas of the Indian River Lagoon, in east-central Florida are compared. A total of 63 distinct taxa were collected during the two-year study. The copepods Oithona nana and Acartia tonsa accounted for almost 90 % of the total number of individuals captured. Mean plankton density at the study sites was 403,291 individuals per cubic meter, which is somewhat higher than densities reported in similar studies elsewhere. There were significant differences in numbers of taxa and densities between sites and years. Average number of taxa was highest at the less isolated sites, whereas densities were highest at a site with intermediate isolation, and lowest at the most isolated site. Peaks in zooplankton densities occurred in late summer and early fall and followed the first heavy rains of the season. Isolating an impounded marsh from the lagoon during the summer by closing the culverts connecting the two areas did not appear to have a significant impact upon the zooplankton communities of either site, but maintaining an impounded marsh isolated during the whole year may have resulted in reduced zooplankton density and diversity.
24319677|An analysis of ocean tide patterns is used to explain the difficulties in determining the mean high water mark in Florida. Seasonal oscillations of the sea are so related to tide intervals that a submergence periodicity on the tidelands is created which is unique to the state. The high marsh remains dry during one part of the year and is almost continuously tide-flooded during the other. Important differences between Atlantic and Gulf coasts are demonstrated. The high marsh, located between mean neap high and mean spring high tide levels, occupies more of the tidelands in Florida than the low marsh. For the protection of tidelands it is recommended that they be delineated by their vegetation until more tidal bench marks are available.
24319907|Limited test excavations were conducted at a small shell midden located near the shore of Boca Ciega Bay in St. Petersburg, Florida. Ceramics recovered from the site indicate that the midden was deposited during the late Weeden Island-related period, or about A.D. 800-1000. A pre-midden, pre-ceramic occupation is also evident which may date as early as the middle to late Archaic period, or about 4000-2000 B.C. Analysis of the subsistence remains indicates a heavy reliance on shellfish, particularly oyster (Crassostrea virginica) and bay scallop (Aequipectin irradians), with only minor evidence for other marine or terrestrial species.
24320542|Five Big Cypress fox squirrels (Sciurus niger avicennia) were radio-collared and translocated from Naples, Florida, to Big Cypress National Preserve (BICU). Fox squirrels survived trapping and immediate release. Site fidelity was inconsistent and movements may be attributed to dispersal, post release investigative behavior, or food availability. Habitat use of translocated fox squirrels shifted among seasons. Translocated fox squirrels sought out suitable habitat and resident populations.
24319655|An isolated reproducing population of the pirambeba, Serrasalmus humeralis, was recently discovered at a Dade County, Florida tourist attraction. Twenty to 25 unidentified Serrasalmus sp. had been stocked into the 'piranha pool' in 1963 or 1964. The only fish kill noted during the 13 to 14 yr history of this population occurred during a severe drought in 1971 when the pool dried into a small mud-puddle. A few S. humeralis survived this drought and continued reproducing. When renovated, the piranha pool yielded 53 pirambebas in 3 distinct size classes ranging from 21-305 mm and 0.1-830 g. A lower lethal temperature of 11C was identified when these fish were subjected to decreasing water temperatures at a rate of 1C/day. This lethal temperature and an analysis of mean monthly temperatures suggest there is more suitable serrasalmin habitat in Florida than previously recognized. Serrasalmus humeralis were found to be relatively tolerant to rotenone with one individual surviving a 72 hr exposure to 2 ppm 5% emulsified rotenone. This population substantiates previous conclusions that members of the genus Serrasalmus can become established in Florida.
24319464|This first report is based upon both a female and male which were examined with subsequent observations on the skull of the more deformed female. Nearly all bones were modified by being thinner and mis-shapen compared to normal.
24321895|Rosemary scrub, a shrub community of acidic, sandy, well drained soils in Florida, is maintained by periodic, intense fires that occur at long fire intervals (2040 years). These slightly elevated balds or knolls are primarily restricted to the St. Lucie fine sand soil series in Pinellas County. Over the past 40 years nearly 95% of scrub vegetation has disappeared due to fragmentation, edge effect, fire suppression and development. Data were collected to document species composition and diversity in what we describe as the last remaining rosemary bald in Pinellas County. A total of 26 plant species occur within the rosemary bald and the adjacent sand pine forest. Gaps are colonized primarily by herbaceous, endemic scrub species and several lichens. Studies have shown that allelopathy by rosemary litter and roots may partially explain the bare zones or gaps between shrubs. Preliminary removal experiments indicate that in large gaps, scrub herbs increase in densities. Due to fire suppression, the overall cover by rosemary has decreased over the past 5 years as the majority of the rosemary shrubs begin to reach senescence and sand pine and scrub oak encroach from the edges. The rarity of this unique ecosystem and the long term requirement for fire management suggests that the county should consider this site for future land acquisition.
24321174|HPLC-derived data on the chlorophylls (-a, -b,-c1/-c2) and pheopigments were compared to those derived from the spectrophotometric analysis of Florida Bay seston. This comparison was prompted by the rather wide spread in data from a 1996 seven-laboratory inter-laboratory comparison of chlorophyll determination in Florida Bay samples. 244 water samples from north-central and western Florida Bay phytoplankton collected during monthly sampling events (09/0006/02) were analyzed. The spectrophotometric determination of chlorophyll-a (CHLa), using 5 separate published equations and 1 commercial data manipulation program (ChlCalc), gave quite acceptable results (y = 0.91691.0914X; R2 = 0.93610.9987) for CHLa, as compared to the HPLC-PDA (X) data. The determination of pheopigments with the commercial program gave better results (y = 1.0631X, R2 = 0.463) than the classic determination using Lorenzen's (1967) equation (y = 11.178X, R2 = 0.0271), but it too proved inadequate determining community "health" (viz. senescence, predation, resuspension). Comparisons of the determination of the chlorophylls -b- or -c1/-c2 by spectrophotometry versus HPLC-derived data showed that such measures were highly inaccurate, as R2 values were close to zero (-0.16 to 0.04) and the slope ("m" in y = mX) gave overestimations of 1.85.6. It is concluded that valid CHLa estimates can indeed be made using spectrophotometric measures on 90% acetone extracts of Florida Bay seston (Whatman GF/F filters). However, using such polychromatic equations, it is also concluded that no meaningful estimates of pheopigments or alternate chlorophylls (-b, -c1/-c2) are possible using these methods on Florida Bay bioseston.
24320482|A survey of owners/operators of ornamental horticulture firms was conducted to determine the employment patterns of men and women. Results from employers representing over 3,000 workers indicated that men and women are concentrated in different types of jobs and sectors of the industry. Implications of the findings are discussed.
24321599|The Rotenberger Wildlife Management Area (RWMA) historically comprised a portion of the northern Everglades. The area was impounded and hydrologically isolated during the 1950s. As a result, the area became solely a rainfall-driven system, and the vegetation community slowly transitioned from wetland species to upland species. In 1994, the area was targeted for hydropattern restoration, and began receiving discharge from a constructed treatment wetland (Stormwater Treatment Area, STA-5) in 2001. The STA discharge greatly increased the area's hydroperiod for several years; however, in 20062007 South Florida experienced a severe drought, and STA water was unavailable for discharge. As part of a long-term monitoring effort in the RWMA, qualitative vegetation surveys have been conducted biannually from 1998 through 2007. Plant species observed at monitoring locations within the marsh were identified and recorded. Data were organized into three hydrologic periods: the dry pre-discharge period (19982001), the wet post-discharge period (20022005), and the post-discharge drought period (20062007). The assemblage of plants found over the ten-year survey period includes 119 plants identified to species level from 49 vascular plant families. This species list can be utilized for further evaluations in this area and other Everglades areas that have experienced similar hydrologic conditions.
24319459|In summer, 1969, contents of 410 egret stomachs were studied. Spiders, especially wolf spiders, were found to be widely present in the diet.
24319461|A live male was collected about a mile inside the Pensacola Bay Entrance.
24320089|Specimens of Pontinus nematophthalmus, Scorpaenodes tredecimspinosus, and Ectreposebastes imus taken in the western North Atlantic off the Carolinas represent northeastward extensions of the known ranges of these species. A specimen of Scorpaena agassizi captured off Cape Lookout, North Carolina, shows abnormalities of the dorsal fin and supporting structures.
24321112|Laboratory studies were conducted in order to assess the behavioral interactions between the shrew Blarina carolinensis and four species of sympatric mice (Peromyscus gossypinus, P. polionotus, Podomys floridanus, and Reithrodontomys humulis) in an open arena, both in the presence and absence of mouse nestlings. In arenas containing an adult female mouse and her offspring, the mean number of approaches of shrews toward rodents was significantly lower for those species of mice (P. gossypinus and P. floridanus) with a larger body size compared to shrews than for those that were similar in size to shrews. The 2 species of larger mice approached shrews to a greater extent than their smaller counterparts. Shrews attacked and killed at least one offspring of P. polionotus and R. humulis in 80 and 66.7% of the encounters, respectively, whereas the offspring of the larger mice P. gossypinus and P. floridanus were attacked far less frequently (13.3 and 0%, respectively). Young mice that were attacked by shrews were seized by their head or limbs, dragged out of the nest, and killed by a bite to the base of the skull. The cotton mouse, P. gossypinus exhibited the highest degree of aggression toward shrews and killed their antagonist in 3 out of 15 encounters. In encounter trials conducted in the absence of mouse offspring, there were no significant differences between approach frequencies of shrews and mice and all female mice appeared more tolerant of shrews. These experiments show that B. carolinensis can effectively attack and ingest nestlings of mice and that its ability to do so depends on the size of the mouse and its level of aggression.
24320440|Electron microscopy is used to observe mature and immature pollen of the tropical golden shrimp plant, Pachystachys lutea Nees. It is in a diverse family (Acanthaceae), that includes many showy, flowering vines and shrubs. Mature P. lutea pollen are prolate (average 72 m)  60 m in size), isopolar, and tricolporate. Its ornate exine surface has a reticulate pattern composed of winding muroid ridges that extend from a punctate tectum to delimit polygonal luminoid areas. Muri are thicker in mature pollen. Two pseudocolpi (shallow furrows without pores) fuse at the polar ends of the pollen to form ellipses in the mescolpium. Circular pores are features of the colpi at their widest diameter. In the final stages of exine maturation, its ektexinous components change ratios, i. e., the tectum and foot layers become thicker and the columellar layer becomes thinner.
24320530|The presence of a wide variety of organic contaminants in groundwater has required that additional treatment processes be added to the present treatment train in potable water treatment plants. The relevant drinking water quality standards have been summarized as well as the estimated risks some of these contaminants pose to the public.
24320268|The prevalence of Serratia marcescens, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Yersinia enterocolitica, Edwardsciella tarda and Chromobacterium violaceum was studied in 18 recreational waters in the North-Central Florida area. Samples were obtained during the summer 1979 and winter 1980. Temperature and pH were lower during winter and the incidence of the pathogens was higher during the winter. Overall, 44 % of the waters samples contained S. marcescens, 50% P. aeruginosa, 56% C. violaceum and 11% Y. enterocolitica. E. tarda was not found.
24320200|The demise of the tropical rain forest of Amazonia is proceeding as a result of frontier expansion by every country which borders on the Basin. In Bolivia, settlement of the humid lowlands is viewed as a solution to population pressures in the mountain regions and has been encouraged by government programs. As a result of the exigencies of traditional horticulture, the settler is locked into a system of shifting production. Normally under low density populations this system permits forest regeneration. In actuality, shifting horticulture is occurring under situations of high density population which when linked to mechanized agriculture frequently results in the conversion of forest tracts to grasslands.
24320681|Sediment contamination in freshwater systems of Collier County was investigated during April and AugustSeptember 1991 as a step towards developing baseline data on sediment quality and identify contaminated sites. Variables included total organic carbon, a suite of trace metals, organochlorine pesticides, and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons [PAH]. Anthropogenic enrichment of sediments by cadmium, copper, lead, and zinc was identified. The likelihood of biological perturbation by contaminants was also examined. The likelihood of biological impacts from trace metals was generally low. Pesticides were detected in >40% of the samples and at >50% of the stations during 1991. Chlordane and d-HCH were detected at the highest concentrations reported to date in Florida. PAH's were detected at extremely high concentrations (>20,000 ppb) in the Gordon River watershed. There was a high likelihood of biological effects due to contamination by chlordane at one location and by PAH's at two locations.
24321577|Determining the amount of habitat occupied by a species at local scales may improve conservation efforts because this information can aid in avoiding impacts to areas containing rare or protected species. We use data from central Florida, USA, to evaluate sampling techniques for the endemic sand skink (Plestiodon [formerly Neoseps] reynoldsi), a secretive fossorial lizard. We also provide empirical examples of ways to determine the amount of habitat sand skinks occupy and their spatial distribution within a study site. To quantitatively survey for sand skinks we used plywood coverboards, supplementing these surveys with more qualitative visual encounter surveys. During our studies, we found that sand skinks were most active in the fall (October and November), but were active during all months sampled (March  June and October  December). Sand skinks and other species associated with xeric habitats were more readily found underneath newer coverboards (left for < 5 weeks in the field), whereas species preferring mesic microhabitats (i.e., anurans) were more readily found underneath older coverboards (1 yr in the field). We also found more sand skink trails underneath coverboards than in open sandy areas between coverboards, even though coverboards sampled proportionately less area. Finally, we provide details on two different ways of determining the spatial distribution of sand skinks within a study site and discuss their various applications. Being able to sample for sand skinks efficiently will allow a more thorough understanding of which areas they inhabit, and this information can be used to better protect this threatened species.
24319542|A large skull and associated teeth of the extinct dire wolf (Canis dirus) from the Aucilla River, Jefferson County, Florida, more closely resemble dire wolves from Texas, Missouri, and Kentucky. Canis dirus may have been highly variable ontogenetically; or there may be a chronocline in dire wolf evolution, grading from small to large.
24319976|The development of the Department of Environmental Regulation (DER) pesticide program, based on a preventative strategy of ground water protection, is reviewed. Included is the current status of program activities in ground water protection, interagency pesticide activities, field studies and monitoring, and remediation provided through the statewide ethylene dihromide (EDB) clean-up. Future areas of emphasis for ground water protection through management of agricultural chemicals are reviewed.
24319631|Soft phosphate, a mixture of carbonate-substituted fluorapatite, crandallite, wavellite, montmorillonite, kaolinite, and quartz, bloats when it is heated above 1100C and is air quenched. It reaches a maximum volume (325% of the original volume) and a minimum specific gravity (0.6) at about 1300C. Bloating results from evolution of gas from some constituent(s) of the mixture (possibly the apatite or crandallite) as other constituents (probably the montmorillonite and kaolinite) begin to melt.
24320221|The ratio of convexity of the valves to the length of the valves is a factor in the burrowing habits of marine pelecypods. The pelecypods with a high percentage of convexity, 55% or greater, tend to be slow borrowers. Exceptions to this rule are the Cardiidae and Neotrigonia. Those that have a low percentage of convexity, less than 40%, tend to be rapid borrowers. Deposit-feeding groups of pelecypods commonly have a low percentage of convexity, are of small to medium size, and are rapid burrowers. Pelecypods that have a high percentage of convexity and spirally-enrolled prosogyrate beaks, as in Glossus, are sluggish, shallow-burrowing suspension feeders.
24321870|Fish communities were surveyed three times each year at 6 lotic habitats (small streams and manmade drainage ditches and canals) at Babcock Ranch, Charlotte and Lee Counties, Florida. Sampling methods were adopted from the baseline assessment of the Picayune Strand Restoration Project. Breder traps were deployed for one hour at each site for each sampling event. Active fish sampling with D-frame dip nets was also conducted for one hour at each location while traps were set. Data from passive and active sampling methods were combined for statistical analyses. A total of 26 fish species, representing 14 families were collected, including seven non-native fish species from four families. The most abundant fishes were native Gambusia holbrooki and non-native Hemichromis letourneuxi, respectively. Fish assemblages in canals were significantly different than in natural streams. Native sunfishes of the genus Lepomis were more abundant in streams than canals. Canals served as thermal refugia for non-native cichlids during severe cold weather events in 2009 and 2010. The removal of anthropogenic drainage canals and ditches, that serve as thermal refugia and pathways for dispersal for H. letourneuxi should benefit native fish species over time.
24321424|We studied the vertebrate component of the breeding season diet of the Northern crested caracara (Caracara cheriway) in south-central Florida, where this species occurs as an isolated population and is threatened by widespread habitat loss. From 75 prey remain samples collected at active nests in 40 different breeding areas during FebruaryJune 19941997, we identified 299 prey items representing 53 different prey types from 5 vertebrate classes and 37 families. Mammals comprised the largest proportion of all prey items (31.4%) followed by reptiles (24.1%), fish (23.7%), birds (13.4%), and amphibians (7.4%), and many of these items were probably taken alive. One hundred ninety-two prey items (64.2%, 17 different families) represented species that use wetlands during all or part of their life history, suggesting dependence of this raptor on wetlands for foraging, at least during the breeding season. Carrion comprised approximately 33% of the diet of nesting caracaras in Florida. Our results differ from those reported for the diet of crested caracaras in Mexico, Argentina, and Andean Patagonia possibly due to differences in habitat types and diversity, land use, and carrion availability.
24320609|The Loggerhead Shrike (Lanius ludovicianus) has been declining in numbers for most of the 20th century and is currently diminishing at about 5% per year. We present data on trends in numbers of shrikes in southcentral Florida based on roadside counts conducted along 505 km of roads, twice a year in summer and winter, from 1974 to 1981, in January 1989, July 1991, and January and July 1992. The annual mean count method indicates that from 1976 to 1992 the winter population declined at the rate of 37%, and the summer counts by 41%. The magnitude of the decline documented by us is greater than that recorded by Breeding Bird Surveys for the species nationwide.
24321541|Identifying a species that is in decline or undergoing a range contraction is a critical first step in conservation. During the late 1990s, a once stable population of Limpkins (Aramus guarauna) on the Wakulla River in North Florida declined and then became extirpated. To determine whether this was an isolated occurrence or part of a larger trend, I used Christmas Bird Count data to test for spatial and temporal changes in Limpkin populations in Florida. A weighted, linear regression model indicated that Limpkins have undergone a sustained decline in the northern portions of their range. During the last 25 years, Limpkins have declined significantly by 47.7% in the northern counts while not having any significant change in the southern counts. The number of Limpkins observed statewide actually increased between 1970 and 2007. However, when corrected for unit effort, there have been no significant, statewide changes in Limpkins. This study indicates that the decline of Limpkins on the Wakulla River may not be part of a state-wide trend but part of a long-term contraction in the northern portions of their range. Identifying the factors driving the range contraction should be a focus of future studies.
24321426|The recycling index is a measure of the extent of recycling that occurs in selected counties and in the state of Florida, and has been defined as being equal to the recycling percentage/target percentage. The recycling percentage was defined as 100  the amount of material recycled in a given year divided by the total solid municipal waste. The legislatively mandated target in the past was 30% for most counties in Florida. Data for calendar years 19952002 indicated that the overall recycled percentage decreased from the high thirties to about 2728%. When the target percentage was 30%, the Recycling Index would have been as great as 1.33; with a greater target of 50%, the Recycling Index would be closer to 0.56.
24320752|To determine if disturbance affected the growth and flowering of Deeringothamnus rugelii, twelve experimental blocks were selected in a pasture where this species is abundant, near New Symrna Beach. Each block consisted of three treatments. One plant was subjected to fire, another to clearing by clipping all above ground growth, and the third plant was an unmanipulated control. We monitored vegetative growth, floral, and fruit production for four months. Disturbance significantly enhanced vegetative and floral output. Fruits were also produced in the disturbed treatments while none developed in the controls. No differences were observed among the treatments the following year.
24321416|Along with race and gender, socio-economic status (SES) is one of the three cornerstones of social stratification in the United States. It has been found to have a strong association with various health outcome measures, including life expectancy at birth. Earlier research found that high socio-economic populations in both Arkansas and Mississippi experienced a relative increase in mean life expectancy over low socio-economic populations between 1970 and 1990, an important period in terms of social and health policy because social welfare programs that were at a peak in 1970 had been significantly reduced by 1990. This paper extends this analysis to Florida. Using a comparison of means as well as dummy regression analysis in conjunction with estimates of life expectancy and socio-economic status (SES), we find that between 1970 and 1990, high SES populations in Florida gained between at least two and as much as four additional years of life expectancy over low SES populations. This finding supports research that SES plays a role in differential life expectancy. It has implications for current national health policy in that the U. S. Department of Health and Human Services has as one of its two key goals, the elimination of health disparities by 2010.
24319845|The vegetation of the Archbold Biological Station (ABS, 1590 ha), one of the largest and most representative examples of the natural landscape of the southern end of the Florida Lake Wales Ridge, is described. The major associations include: southern ridge sandhills, sand pine scrub, scrubby flatwoods, flatwoods, swale, bayhead, and seasonal ponds. Sandhills, scrub, and scrubby flatwoods occur on more elevated and well-drained sands, while the remaining types occupy less elevated and more poorly drained soils. Plant species diversity (H) was highest for sandhills and scrubby flatwoods, lowest for scrub (rosemary phase) and swale. Horn's index of community similarity (R0) showed 2 clusters of associations: (1) the well-drained scrub, scrubby flatwoods, and southern ridge sandhills and (2) the poorly drained flatwoods, swales, and bayheads. This analysis also indicated that bayhead, swale, and rosemary scrub were the least similar to other ridge associations. Ridge associations are influenced by fire and each association differs in flammability, modal fire frequency, and resiliency. Evidence indicates that long-term successional changes in the associations studied are extremely slow, with the associations of well-drained sites being especially stable. Stability of microclimate in 5 of the major associations ranked: bayhead > mature scrub > flatwoods > sandhills > scrubby flatwoods. Historical natural (e.g., hurricanes, fires) and anthropogenic (e.g., turpentining, logging, grazing) influences on the vegetation associations of the study area have resulted in little change in species composition, indicating that ridge associations are relatively stable. The vegetation types at ABS were compared to similar associations in other parts of Florida, noting geographical extents and the unique features of southern Lake Wales Ridge associations. At ABS, 43 out of a total of 470 species (9% of the flora) are endemic to Florida. Nine of the 43 endemics are confined to the Lake Wales Ridge, with 3 additional ridge endemics near or adjacent to, but not on, the study area proper.
24320295|The Atlantic sturgeon is reported for the first time from Charlotte Harbor and is an extension of the known range.
24320468|Trace metal and pesticide contents of sediments and producer and consumer organisms were analyzed from samples taken from 18 stations off the Florida Keys from Biscayne National Park to the Dry Tortugas. Samples were analyzed for total mercury, tin (inorganic and organic), arsenic (inorganic and methylated), lead, copper, cadmium, and halogenated pesticides. Pesticide concentrations were below detection limits. Observed ranges (as ppm) were: arsenic: <0.2 (sediments), 0-1.7 (producers), 0.1-2.2 (consumers); cadmium: 0.2-1.2 (sediments, <0.1-1.8 (producers), 0.7-22 (consumers); copper: 0.8-3.8 (sediments) 0.8-3.5 (producers) 1.5-38 (consumers); lead 0.8-4.5 (sediments) 1.0-4.9 (producers) 1.8-60 (consumers); mercury, <0.1 (sediments) <0.1 (producers), 0.02-0.4 (consumers); tin 0.002-0.2 (sediments), <0.08 (producers) <0.1-13 (consumers). In general, concentrations of trace metals increased from sediments to producers to consumers at each station. Though the concentrations tended to be low, some deviations were ascribed to human inputs. Fewer significant correlations were observed than expected possibly because of the dependence of the uptake mechanism upon the ability of the system (sediment, producer, consumer) to remove trace metals from particular materials. Sponges have this ability and may represent a useful means of monitoring the quality of the environment on a sustained basis. The results are generally consistent with a relatively clean environment with some localized anthropogenic effects.
24319807|Hemoglobin and demographic data were obtained from 6,078 Black Americans tested in Tampa. Males comprised 41.7 % of the sample; 58.5 % was age 0-14 yrs and 35.9 % was 15-44 yrs old. Genotypically, the sample was 88.91 % AA, 9.64 % AS and 2.45 % AC, CC, SS or SC. For those within the sample of known birthplace, non-Southerners differ significantly from Southerners and non-urban Southerners, but not from urban Southerners as to genotype frequency. Rural Southern Blacks have the highest AS and total hemoglobinopathy frequencies; non-Southern Blacks have the lowest. Differential admixture of American Blacks and Anglo Americans is the most plausible primary explanation of this.
24319633|Pomacentrus variabilis undergoes a morphological color change from bright blue and yellow as a juvenile (age 0) to a uniform dark color as an adult (age I + ). Color change involves melanogenesis and a decrease in skin carotenoid concentration during the first autumn and winter; carotenoid content of the skin increases until the fish reach 40-60 mm SL, after which the total content decreases. The carotenoid pigments in P. variabilis appear to be di-hydroxy -carotenes.
24320636|Metal complexes having a chiral carbon center can precisely discriminate between enantiotropic atoms, groups, or faces in achiral molecules and catalyze production of a broad array of natural and synthetic substances of excellent enantiomeric purity. This work describes attempts to use as catalysts metal complexes of the type M[RCOCHC(NR)R]2, which have overall chirality and which can be resolved. Nickel(II) and copper(II) compounds were studied. The former, when resolved, have smaller racemization rates, but they did not catalyze the reaction of interest at reasonable yields. The copper(II) compounds catalyzed the desired reaction, but the enantiomeric purity was poor, presumably because of the rate of racemization of the chiral catalyst.
24321037|The capture of an exceptionally large redbellied pacu in Brevard County is documented. The redbellied pacu measured 841 mm total length and is the largest specimen on record in Florida. Gonad histology showed a mature female with oocytes in late maturation stage, or class 4. The condition of the oocytes also indicated that female red bellied pacu may possibly be synchronous spawners. Stomach contents consisted of cabbage palm seeds, sour orange seeds, and clupeid fish bones. The size and advanced stage of sexual maturation of the redbellied pacu described in this study suggests that the species is able to withstand Florida's winter cold and to reach reproductive stage.
24319614|The range is extended 200 miles westward in Florida.
24319833|Seventy nurse sharks (Ginglymostoma cirratum) were tagged and released from Big Pine Key, Florida with combinations of stainless steel barbed tags, plastic barbed tags, and modified Carlin disc tags. Twenty percent of the tagged sharks were recovered; 35% of the animals tagged with only stainless steel barbed tags were recovered; 21% of those tagged with both plastic barbed tags and Carlin disc tags were recovered. Disc tags remained in place more frequently than plastic barbed tags, but showed significant damage to tagged animals over time when applied to juvenile animals.
24319517|The oldest known shell-cemented pelecypods are Mississippian in age. Shell cementation has never been a common adaptation by pelecypods, and only about 1.0% of all living species of pelecypods are shell cemented.
24321825|Quinine (Q, C20H23N2O2) is historically one of the best known natural products. In this study LC-MS, 1H and 13C NMR, and MALDI-TOF-MS as well as computational techniques are utilized to study the copper(II)-quinine interaction. These techniques are used to probe (1) the formation of a quinine-quinine dimer and (2) that the copper (II) cation can accommodate two quinines (bidentate) in solution (i.e CuQ2). This study shows this metal ligand complex is dynamic in the aqueous phase. It involves the cation interacting with the nitrogen, oxygen and pi bonds on the quinine molecule. This complex shares similar chemical and physical attributes (volume, surface area, dipole moment) with the well-known natural products vinblastine and vincristine. It was tested against the National Cancer Institute's 60 cell lines and found to have activity similar to Cu(II) salt and quinine (separate), and not vinblastine or vincristine.
24321570|Little is known concerning home range and activity of large terrestrial snakes. During the course of an inventory of a large biological preserve in north-central Florida, 5 individuals of Drymarchon and Masticophis were tracked from 49 to 322 days. A single eastern indigo snake had a home range of 100185 ha depending on estimator, whereas the coachwhips used smaller home ranges that varied individually and by season. We provide information on ecdysis, feeding activity, and retreat sites for the 5 tracked individuals; these are the first such data on free-ranging coachwhips. Gopher tortoise and small mammal burrows were important retreat sites for both species, particularly during ecdysis. Both species frequented uplands habitats, with coachwhips using longleaf pine/xeric oak sandhills and former pastures, and the eastern indigo snake preferring upland mixed pine and hardwoods. Although sample sizes are small, these results, coupled with data on the movements of other upland species, suggest that large terrestrial snakes require substantial amounts of contiguous habitat in order to maintain populations.
24319439|New populations of the introduced thiarid snail, Melanoides tuberculata, were found in fresh water canals of Dade and Collier counties and in the saline mangrove areas adjacent to Biscayne Bay in the Matheson Hammock-Snapper Creek area of Coral Gables. No trematode larvae were discovered in specimens examined but the extension of the snail into brackish and marine waters increases the possibility of spread of avian trematode infection because of increased numbers of potential intermediate crustacean hosts available in the mangrove habitat.
24320334|The average, annual total phytoplankton cell density in the Indian River near Vero Beach was 1.38 X 1010 cells m-3 and the average net (>20 m) phytoplankton cell density was 9.88 X 107 cells m-3. Average total chlorophyll a for the year was 10.69 mg m-3 and 3.42 mg m-3 for the total and net fractions respectively. This portion of the river was characterized by relatively high nutrient concentrations. Yearly mean values for total nitrogen, orthophosphate and silicate were 9.24 M, 1.79 M and 53.67 M, respectively. Most biological standing stock belonged to the phytoplankton size fraction passing through a 20 m mesh net. These nanophytoplankton accounted for 99.3% of the cell density, 90.7% of the biomass and 78.0% of the active chlorophyll a observed throughout the year study. Variations in diatom cell densities accounted for most total phytoplankton cell density fluctuations. Skeletonema costatum (Grev.) Cl. was the dominant diatom in terms of numbers and biomass. The initial spring bloom was comprised mainly of relatively small chain-forming diatom species of the genera Chaetoceros, Nitzschia and Thalassiosira. This pulse was followed by a period of increased phytoflagellate and dinoflagellate numbers. The diatom genera during this period were Thalassiosira, Nitzschia and Skeletonema. The late summer-fall phytoplankton community was primarily composed of Chaetoceros, phytoflagellates, Thalassiosira, Skeletonema and Paralia. The late fall-winter phytoplankton community was dominated by phytoflagellates and a diatom assemblage comprised of Thalassiosira, Nitzschia and Skeletonema.
24320030|Although Bostrichobranchus pilularis has been reported from the Gulf of Mexico, descriptions are similar to those of B. digonas. Developmental stages of B. digonas are described and shown to be distinct from those of B. pilularis. Published literature and information presented here indicate that B. digonas is present in shallow water between central and northwestern Florida.
24321810|Low-temperature tolerances of two non-native fishes established in Florida (Hoplosternum littorale, Cichlasoma bimaculatum) were obtained with laboratory experiments using the CTmin methodology wherein temperatures were lowered by 1 C h-1. The results were compared to two other non-native cichlid fishes tested in the same manner (Cichlasoma urophthalmus, Hemichromis letourneuxi) in a previous study. Cichlasoma bimaculatum lost equilibrium at 12.6C and died 8.6C, similar to other cichlid fishes from south Florida. Hoplosternum littorale, a South American catfish, tolerated significantly lower temperatures than the cichlids, losing equilibrium at 7.8C and dying once temperatures reached 5.7C. The difference in low-temperature tolerance of these species is reflected in their introduced geographic distributions in Florida; H. littorale ranges much farther north than the cichlid species. Laboratory experiments such as these may be useful in risk assessment and screening of newly introduced non-native fishes.
24320721|Seagrass communities provide critical habitat and water quality benefits to fish and wildlife resources. Recent improvements in water quality have resulted in natural recolonization of seagrass in selected locations within Tampa Bay. However, propeller damage from increased boating activity may negate gains in natural seagrass expansion. A survey of shallow, subtidal seagrass meadows has determined the baywide extent of propeller damage and ranked the degree of damage. Characterization of scars in seagrass communities have identified the type of activity which may have generated the scar feature. Management criteria was also developed based upon scar location, activity that generated the scar and degree of damage.
24321455|The study of the vascular flora of Jonathan Dickinson State Park during the period of 1975 to the present has resulted in a list of 899 taxa (including 173 exotics and 38 endemics) in 149 families. The species richness is largely due to the wide variety of the park's plant communities (15) and the diversity associated with the overlap of temperate and subtropical species' ranges. The plant communities are discussed and mapped, and a list of species is given.
24320229|Red maples presently dominate the swamp forest at Sawgrass Lake Park. Vegatational sampling showed, however, that the maple stand is aging as young maples are underrepresented. Underrepresentation is caused by high mortality of maple seedlings and young trees. One likely reason maples die prematurely is because they require moderately strong sunlight not available under the mature maple canopy. Evidence suggests that in recent years waters also have either been too high or too low in the swamp to permit seedling survival. Mesic hardwoods might be capable of replacing maples, but presently mesic species are not well represented in the swamp. Future use of the area for flood detention is likely to make the establishment and survival of mesic hardwoods even more difficult. Recommendations are made for improving conditions for hardwood survival in the existing maple swamp.
24320113|The estuary is about 35 by 30 miles at the extremes with more than 200 miles of shoreline and comparatively little contamination. Vegetation includes salt marsh, mangrove and other peninsular Florida Gulf Coast communities which are highly productive. Of 246 fish species, 18 produce a harvest with a dockside value ofca. $3,000,000. Dredging and development have had an adverse effect on more than 11,000 acres near Port Charlotte, Punta Gorda, Cape Coral and Fort Myers. An additional 25,300 acres are closed to shellfishing because of pollution. Further manmade changes threaten the value of the estuary as a fishing ground and hatchery for commercially valuable marine fishes.
24319618|Scale structure is characterized by means of the Scanning Electron Microscope. Characters, including circuli, dentition on the crests of the circuli, the cteni and the subjacent anterior areas of the scale plate are described and their potential usefulness in taxonomy indicated. The range of diversity of the lateral line scales has been emphasized separately.
24320328|Grain size analyses have been made for 34 samples of the upper 5 cm of sediment cores from seagrass beds. Sieves were used for gravel and sand; the SEDIGRAPH was used for silt and clay. Thalassia (13 samples), Halodule (3), Syringodium (3) and bare sand areas (15) within seagrass beds were sampled in the summers of 1979 and 1980. Generally, these sediments are sands, with small admixtures of gravel, silt and clay. The average particle size is about 0.25 mm with grain size modes at 0.3 and 0.1 mm. These sediments are poorly sorted (large standard deviation), positively skewed (excess fine particles) and are leptokurtic (excessive peakedness). Sand content is greater than 90% by weight, and is mostly quartz. Gravel consists of carbonate shells and shell fragments. Mineralogy of the silt fraction is not known, and the clay is judged to be mostly kaolinite from crystal shapes seen in transmission electron microscopy. Comparison of sediment from different species of seagrasses to bare sand areas reveals little difference in terms of grain size characteristics. There are no data available to document seasonal differences. There is a significantly higher content of silt (X = 1.33%) in Thalassia sediments than in nearby sandy areas (X = 1.01%). Comparison of silt grain size data (62.5 to 3.9 m) shows that the most abundant particle sizes present in Thalassia sediment are between 15-30 m. Particle size distribution of silt in nearby sandy areas shows less concentration in this range. Preliminary results from late summer sediment trap measurements give a particle flux of 10-20 g m-2 day-1 during ordinary weather, which doubled during passage of storm DENNIS. It is not known how much of this flux has come from local resuspension of sediment particles.
24320994|Aqueous extracts of roots, stems and leaves of cattail, Typha domingensis, inhibited germination of lettuce seeds and caused inversion of some of the seedlings. The part of the plant found to be most phytotoxic in all the bioassays conducted in this study was the root, followed by the stem and the leaves. This correlated with the organic carbon (Corg) content of the three fractions. Previous studies of cattail extracts by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry had revealed the presence of 2-chlorophenol and salicylaldehyde (among other components). Bioassays using these two chemicals produced the same type of inhibition observed for the extracts. The relative concentrations of both components in the cattail extracts were determined using gas chromatography (external standard method) and were found to be in the order of milligrams per kilogram of fresh material. The chemicals were most concentrated in the root fraction, the concentration decreased in the stem and only small amounts of 2-chlorophenol were detected in the leaves. We believe that release of these and other phytotoxins enables cattails to hinder development of other species and plays a role in their aggressive colonization of water bodies.
24321030|The effect of concentration and decomposition time on the phytotoxic properties of aqueous extracts of a cattail species was examined. Cattail tissues contained water-soluble materials that were toxic to germination and growth of lettuce and cattail seeds. A strong correlation was found between extract concentration and toxicity. At very low concentrations, cattail aqueous extracts stimulated germination and root elongation, but, as the concentration increased, the phytotoxic effects became apparent. The phytotoxic effects observed included germination inhibition, inversion of the seedlings, and inhibition of growth. The extracts became generally more toxic after a week of decomposition at 23C. Longer decomposition time, however, made the extracts less active. Addition of increasing amounts of activated charcoal removed the phytotoxic properties; there was a direct correlation between the amount of adsorbent used (01.5g) and the decrease in phytotoxicity under the conditions of the bioassay.
24320500|Fine-grained, organic-rich sediments are adversely impacting portions of the coastal zone in Florida. One extreme example is found in Manatee Pocket, on the southeastern coast of Florida, where sediments with >4% organic carbon have an average thickness of about 1 m and a total volume of 340,000 m3. These deposits formed as soil and organic matter were carried into Manatee Pocket and trapped during the past 100 years of regional development. Vertical profiles for Cd, Cu, Hg, Pb, and Zn show that contamination, at 5-10 times above natural levels, is restricted to the top 15-30% of the organic-rich layers of sediment. Thus, despite a long history of sedimentation problems, incoming sediments have been burdened with contaminants only since the 1950s.
24321392|The purpose of this study was to investigate the lipid and fatty acid compositions of six species of freshwater flowering plants, Ceratophyllum demersum (coontail), Vallisneria neotropicalis (eelgrass), Myriophyllum spicatum (milfoil), Hydrilla verticillata, Pistia stratiotes (water lettuce), and Eichhornia crassipes (water hyacinth) from Kings Bay, Crystal River, Florida and three seagrasses, Halodule wrightii (shoal grass), Syringodium filiforme (manatee grass), and Thalassia testudinum (turtle grass) from Sunset Beach and/or Howard Park in Tarpon Springs, Florida. All plants analyzed contained less than 1% lipid (wet weight) and greater than 75% moisture. Freshwater plants were mainly composed of monoacylglycerols, phosphatidylserine and/or phosphatidylethanolamine. These were the major lipid classes for the seagrasses along with phosphatidylcholine. The main fatty acids in all plants analyzed included 16:0, 18:2, and 18:3 with lesser amounts of 16:1 and 18:1. This study demonstrated that the lipid and fatty acid distributions for seagrasses and freshwater plants collected in local Florida waters are similar to those found in other parts of the world.
24321675|Studies on the impact of hurricanes on the eastern oyster Crassostrea virginica have focused on individual oysters lost from beds due to dislodgement or burial. Here, we provide pre- and post-hurricane information on three other attributes associated with intertidal oyster reefs: (1) shape of reefs as measured in vertical profile, (2) prevalence and intensity of Perkinsus marinus (Dermo), and (3) mean shell height in Mosquito Lagoon, along the east coast of Florida. Research in Mosquito Lagoon has documented significant alterations to vertical reef profiles associated with wakes from recreational boating, specifically creation of dead margins (piles of loose shell) on the forereefs along boating channels. Our interest was to determine if multiple storms in 2004 (Hurricanes Charley, Frances and Jeanne) could move significant numbers of live oysters and disarticulated shells to create/remove dead margins. No dead margins were created or lost by these storms. We additionally hypothesized that physical disturbances associated with boat wakes or hurricanes could disperse and damage live oysters, resulting in stresses that might increase disease loads. In reality, P. marinus prevalence or intensity was not greater on reefs with dead margins or after the hurricanes. After the hurricanes, however, mean oyster size on all reefs decreased.
24321733|Globally, marine reserves are an increasingly popular management tool for preserving marine habitats and resources. Estimates of piscivore abundance are low on the reefs of the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary. We hypothesized that the probable explanation for the absence of strong top down effects on lower trophic levels of reef fishes in the sanctuary is that coral reef structure provides an abundance of shelter for smaller organisms, which reduces the foraging efficiency of large consumers. To test this hypothesis, replicated stationary point counts and measures of reef structure were collected at two protected sites and at a fished reef. While controlling for variation in reef structure using analysis of covariance, the composition of lower trophic levels did not vary significantly among sites. In fact, we found that reef habitat complexity, and to a lesser extent reef geometry, explained most of the variation in the composition of lower trophic levels regardless of protection status. These findings indicate that the inconsistent detection of dramatic increases in reef fishes in "no-take" zones is more likely due to variation in coral reef structure rather than an absence of strong top down effects by restored densities of higher consumers.
24319738|Four species in the Thraustochytriaceae occur consistently in the guts of Lytechinus variegatus from the Tampa Bay area. Some aspects of the biology of these fungi are discussed.
24321557|We examined diets of the native Southern Toad (Anaxyrus terrestris) and the exotic Cane Toad (Rhinella marina) from an urban south-central Florida site where these species were syntopic. Both species fed opportunistically. Their diets were broad, more so in that of that of the Cane Toad, with a high degree of overlap between them (0.86). Strong dietary overlap, and absence of any significant difference between dry and wet seasons for either of the species suggested that food limitation during any part of the year would place the Southern Toad into trophic competition with the Cane Toad, a larger species and successful colonizer of urban settings in southern Florida.
24320199|Wind dispersal characteristics of Melaleuca quinquenervia seeds were explored in laboratory and field investigations. Terminal velocities of free-falling seeds (Vt) ranged 0.45-1.75 m/s, but Vt for most seeds was approximately 1.2 m/s. Few seeds with Vt < 0.9 were viable, while the fastest classes had up to 92 % germination. Seed density decreased logarithmically with distance from seed source. The distance of effective dispersal was within 15 times the height of the seed tree. Melaleuca seeds are held for years in closed capsules, but seedfall occurred in an undamaged stand throughout the 6 mo monitored. Herbicidal injections induced sudden massive seedfalls but the seed release rate remained above normal for 3 mo.
24321204|The jellyfish Stomolophus meleagris was collected both randomly and selectively in the Fort Pierce Inlet area of the Indian River Lagoon, eastern Florida on 26 and 28 March 2003. The total number of S. meleagris randomly sampled was 382 of which 16.5% carried an associated spider crab, Libinia dubia. Two S. meleagris carried two crabs each. The male/female ratio of the crab was 0.82. The mean carapace width (CW) of the males was 22.9 mm and the females 20.0 mm. The difference in size was significant between the sexes. Crabs were only found on jellyfish with a bell diameter between 80 mm and 110 mm, while the total size range of the jellyfish was 70130 mm. More than twice as many females than males were found on jellyfish with a bell diameter of 80 mm, but otherwise the sex distribution was similar regardless of the size of S. meleagris. There was no significant difference between the sexes concerning the relationship between size (CW) and live wet weight.
24321175|Non-native species may have a higher fitness in their adventive range relative to their native ranges due to release from enemy pressure. The enemy release hypothesis implies that introduced plant species should suffer lower levels of herbivory than native congeners. The goal of this study was to quantify rates of herbivory on the southern Florida invasive shrub Ardisia elliptica and its native congener A. escallonioides and evaluate how different rates of leaf area loss may affect the growth and potential reproductive output of each species. Consistent with the enemy release hypothesis. A. elliptica experienced significantly less herbivore damage than A. escallonioides. Although there was a weak and generally non-significant response to simulated herbivory, A. escallonioides was consistently more negatively impacted by leaf area loss. During this study, two folivores and one seed borer were observed feeding on A. elliptica.
24320635|Paired ovaries, collected from 51, 11/2 year-old white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in the upper Everglades system of south Florida durig 1978-80, were examined by serial histology; the sample represented 2 paired ovaries from each calendar month, except December. Breeding occurred between 21 July and 11 October (mean = 10 August); parturition occurred between 1 February and 29 April (mean = 26 February). A corpus albicans of pregnancy was identified in 52 ovaries from 38 deer. The maximum diameter of corpora albicantia of pregnancy was approximately 4 mm among females <1-month postpartum, but had regressed to <2mm by the onset of the breeding season in late July (5 months postpartum) and to <1 mm by the onset of the hunting season in mid-November (9 months postpartum). Corpora albicantia of pregnancy <1 mm diameter were inseparable from both corpora albicantia of pregnancy of the previous year and corpora lutea of estrus. Use of corpora albicantia of pregnancy to estimate productivity of white-tailed deer in subtropical Florida is restricted to a postpartum period of approximately 4 months, which (1) precludes the option for obtaining 2 years of productivity data from the paired ovaries of a given deer, and (2) limits the assessment of productivity to be derived from ovaries of hunter-collected females in autumn to those animals harvested within 4 months of parturition
24319951|A total of 105 triploid grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella) were stocked, over a 3-month period, into a 0.05-ha aerated wastewater pond. The pond was initially covered with water-fern (Azolla caroliniana), but after a rise in water temperature a dominant cover of duckweed (Lemna minor) and water-meal (Wolffia spp.) was present when grass carp were stocked. Initially 26 grass carp were added to the pond; since these fish exhibited no visible vegetation control, two subsequent stockings (49 fish and 30 fish) raised the final number of fish to 105 (2,100 fish/ha) after which a decrease in vegetation biomass was observed, however, only 65 fish (1,300 fish/ha) were found to have survived. Triploid grass carp have the capability to control floating macrophytes in wastewater ponds if sufficient fish survival can be achieved.
24320267|Twelve Gulf of Mexico Sturgeon (Acipenser oxyrhynchus desotoi) were observed from the Apalachicola River, Florida, from 1976-1981. Seven were tagged and released with 2 being recaptured by anglers. Dates and water temperature of upriver, prespawning spring migrations along with downriver, postspawning, fall migrations were obtained. One larval sturgeon was captured in the upper Apalachicola River at a temperature of 23.9C, and a flowing male was observed in the same area at a temperature of 20.6C. An important sturgeon spawning section of the river has been identified for protection. Angler snagging of sturgeon in the upper Apalachicola River was monitored during 1981, revealing an estimated 35-40 sturgeon (average weight 33-45 kg) harvested. The Gulf of Mexico Sturgeon is currently listed as a threatened species by the Florida Committee on Rare and Endangered Plants and Animals.
24319975|The U.S. Geological Survey has the principal responsibility within the Federal Government of providing the hydrologie information and understanding needed to achieve the best use and management of the Nation's water resources. The Survey is involved in studies of ground-water contamination as part of its federally funded research program, in support of the programs of other Federal agencies, and in its cooperative water-resources program with State and local agencies. Research investigations currently (1988) active in Florida include studies of ground-water contamination from agricultural practices, landfills and hazardous waste sites, wastewater disposal, and seawater intrusion. These and other research activities, and the operation of an extensive data-collection network, provide much of the scientific basis for the ground-water management programs of about 70 State, regional, and local agencies in Florida.
24321182|A white female tiger shark, Galeocerdo cuvier, was caught on September 30, 1999, by a fishing vessel operating in the northeastern Gulf of Mexico. White specimens have been reported in several other species of elasmobranchs. However, this is the first documented record of a white specimen occurring in this species.
24319757|The worldview of health and wellbeing found among the residents of San Juan Sacatepequez, Guatemala is presented. Effects of this view of health are discussed as they pertain to the population of pregnant and lactating women and their weanling offspring. Emphasis is placed on the theory of hot and cold properties found in food, emotions and activities. Other special properties that affect food and feeding are considered.
24319834|The Biscayne aquifer is the sole-source aquifer in south east Florida. Since it is unconfined and highly permeable, it is readily susceptible to contamination. Furthermore, because of its heterogeneous nature, any quantitative prediction of water supply, or of the migration and attenuation of contaminating leachates within the aquifer can be based only on detailed local studies of the type outlined. The data presented are compiled from rigorous investigations at two sites near Homestead and present new information on the Biscayne aquifer in south Dade county. These data were derived from the detailed logging of bore-hole cores, thin-section analyses, laboratory permeability tests and field-pumping tests.
24320623|A comparison of the abundance and spatial pattern of stony corals (Milleporina and Scleractinia) and octocorals (Alcyonaria) on nearshore hard-bottom communities of the Florida Keys is presented. Two methods were used to survey coral populations on nearshore, low-relief hard-bottom communities and patch reefs: (1) species presence-absence inventories and (2) belt quadrat surveys of colony density, colony size, and cover. Sites characterized by high sedimentation and low current velocity (< 1 m/s) consisted of sparse aggregations of Siderastrea radians, Pterogorgia anceps, and Briareum asbestinum. Hard-bottom communities characterized by higher current velocity (> 1 m/s) and lower sediment accumulation were more speciose and exhibited higher coral cover. Stony corals exhibited clumped distributions on nearshore sites, while octocorals were uniformly to randomly distributed in belt quadrats. Temperature fluctuations and sediment transport are inferred to be the most important factors in controlling coral distribution on nearshore communities. Life histories of stony corals on nearshore communities are characterized by small colony size, brooding of larvae, and high recruitment rates. No significant negative associations among coral species were observed, suggesting that competition for substratum availability does not significantly influence observed distribution patterns. Vectorial (physical-chemical) and reproductive factors were inferred to exert the most influence on observed coral abundance patterns at spatial scales investigated.
24320130|Meristic and calorific relationships were determined for aquatic animals from southern Florida. The relationships derived included wet mass to length (52 species, 2 families), dry mass to length (17 species), dry mass to wet mass (17 species), and calorific value (44 taxa). The analyses we present are the first available for most of the species. Such relationships can be used in estimating standing stock and energy flow in aquatic systems.
24319776|An archaeological investigation was conducted on the proposed site of the Fletcher Avenue park for 8 wk during the summer of 1978. Site boundaries were located during the early stages of park planning so that adverse impact from park development could be minimized. Data-recovery was designed to produce cultural-historical information about the park's sites for use in on-site public displays. At the same time, problem-oriented excavations will contribute to an understanding of regional cultural processes in prehistory. Recommendations to park developers include site preservation techniques whose long-term effectiveness can be measured in the future. Scientific site preservation, coupled with public interpretation of the park's cultural resources all contribute to an overall program of management of cultural resources at the Fletcher Avenue park.
24312036|The pelagic capture and subsequent behavior of two young individuals of the rough triggerfish (Canthidermis maculatus) from the Caribbean Sea is described and discussed.
24319658|The movement of main channel Mississippi River species on an adjoining floodplain was associated with flooding. Of 62 species collected, 24 were characteristic of the main channel and 15 occurred equally in both floodplain or main channel habitats. The presence of juveniles and/or spawning adults indicate that backwaters serve as important nursery areas for riverine fishes.
24320214|The bay scallop (Argopecten irradians) showed a strong escape response when placed in contact with the asteroid Luidia clathrata. This response is characterized by rapid movements of the valves resulting in immediate displacement of the asteroid and subsequent relocation of the bivalve. The scallop demonstrated only minimal levels of response when placed in contact with the asteroid Echinaster sp. Whole animal homogenates of the 2 asteroid species injected into the mantle cavity of A. irradians resulted in similar patterns of response. The intensity of the escape response elicited by A. irradians may be related to the different feeding modes of these 2 asteroid species. Luidia clathrata feeds primarily on macrofauna (e.g., bivalves, ophiuroids, and polychaetes), while Echinaster sp feeds primarily on detritus and encrusting organisms.
24321579|Estimating Florida apple snail (Pomacea paludosa Say) abundance in wetlands is difficult due to the complex structure of the habitat. We have used throw traps for sampling snails, but significant limitations to this approach prompted investigation of alternative methods. Here, we deployed funnel traps in a mark-recapture study to estimate apple snail density in three habitat types. We compare and contrast the data quality and logistics associated with this approach to those associated with throw traps. We captured and marked 1,420 snails in our sampling grids. Density estimates based on the grid area ranged from 0.13  0.43 snails | m2. These 'nave' density estimates were 1930% higher than those adjusted to account for snails moving in and out of the grid. Capture probabilities (p) varied between sampling grids, and we illustrate why it can be misleading to compare counts of animals without adjusting for p. The funnel trap approach proved especially advantageous over throw traps in densely vegetated habitats. However, no clear advantage exists in areas with relatively sparse vegetation. Although both approaches have their limitations, which we discuss in detail, the mark-recapture approach using funnel traps accommodates a wider range of habitat types.
24319878|Four species of bats have been recorded in Florida's Lower Keys. The record of a Myotis austroriparius may be spurious. Pipistrellus subflavus and Tadarida brasiliensis are known from single individuals thought to have been waifs or dispersers outside their normal range. Only the Antillean fruit bat, Artibeus jamaicensis, seems to have a resident population. The zoogeographic significance of colonization of these continental islands from oceanic islands is discussed.
24319634|Spawning of Notropis petersoni in the upper Hillsborough River drainage, Florida, occurred MarchSeptember in water 19 to 27C. Fecundity ranged from 110694 mature ova (< 0.8 mm) per female and correlated with total length. Young-of-the-year from early spring spawning in 1972 (March or April) averaged 33.8 mm long by late June and reached adult size (60 mm) by October. Later spawned young-of-the-year grew similarly and by late December mean size of all young-of-the-year reached 59.0 mm; all were sexually mature at age 1; and post-spawning mortality occurred throughout the summer. Southern (Florida) and northernmost (North Carolina) populations of N. petersoni differ in growth rates, age structure, and life cycles.
24320714|Southwest Florida, like many parts of Florida, has been a retirement haven for the past several decades. However, other age trends are also occurring, especially in the more urban communities. The age structure of individual communities can be examined using graphic techniques based on easily-obtainable data from the U.S. Census, and can be compared to state-wide and national trends over the same period. The same techniques can also be used to examine particular segments of the population such as racial groups. Planners and policy makers need to understand local demographic structure and change, and can use or modify the techniques suggested by the author for their own planning purposes.
24319783|The identification of human skeletal remains by physical anthropologists has changed during the last decade. New techniques have been introduced and more physical anthropologists are active. The need for proper training, continuing education, and facilities is discussed and the procedures used in a typical analysis of unidentified human remains are described.
24319436|The CNDO method has been applied to a variety of AB2-type molecules in order to test the reliability of the method at geometries removed from equilibrium. In particular, the method was found to predict double minima in the bending potential of such molecules in a qualitatively correct manner. Some features of such CNDO determined potential curves are discussed.
24320783|Salmonella hartford was isolated from the lung and liver of a Florida black bear (Ursus americanus floridanus) found dead on November 14, 1993, in northern Florida. This is the first known report of the isolation of Salmonella sp. in a wild black bear from organs other than intestines. Abnormal lung and liver tissue with lesions resembling those found in other species with salmonellosis and the isolation of Salmonella hartford from these tissues support a presumptive diagnosis of salmonellosis. Salmonellosis is a potential zoonotic disease, and care should be taken when handling black bears.
24319455|Approximately 130 ca. 2 mm white eggs were encased in glair which cleared within 24 hr revealing egg attachment to the pleopods. Egg-hearing cave-dwelling crayfish have not been previously observed in Florida.
24319969|The density of Aeromonas hydrophila L. in the St. Johns river at Lake Harney was examined within the environment (water and sediment) and on striped mullet (skin and stomach) between February and August, 1982. High densities of this pathogenic bacteria occurred within the environment during midsummer when sedimentary chlorophylla and water temperature were highest. Diseased striped mullet (fish with skin lesions), containing high densities of the bacteria within their stomachs and on their skin, were more abundant during summer. This suggests that mullet, browsing on bacteria-laden sediment for algae, accumulate bacteria within their gut and on their skin which, in turn, enhances infections of red sore disease. Significant correlation coefficients were not found between Aeromonas hydrophila L. abundance (water and sediment) and dissolved oxygen, pH, total alkalinity, specific conductivity, and planktonic chlorophylla.
24321422|The fish assemblages of the Lower St. Marys River Basin (LSMR) were studied from May 2001 through April 2002 using data gathered from monthly stratified-random sampling (SRS) during the first year of a long-term fisheries-independent monitoring program in northeast Florida. Three different types of sampling gear (21.3-m seine, 6.1-m otter trawl, and 183-m seine) were used to sample the fish assemblages within different areas and habitats associated with the LSMR. A total of 37,922 animals, representing 108 taxa, were collected in 240 samples taken throughout the entire basin. Collections for all habitats were numerically dominated by a few species. Monthly species richness throughout the basin was directly correlated with water temperature for both the 21.3-m seine and 6.1-m otter trawl catches. The abundant species in the LSMR were similar to other estuaries in the region. No difference was found in the species diversity throughout the LSMR. This study provides data regarding the distribution and abundance of fish assemblages from the LSMR that will be used in the creation of future baseline community-structure models.
24319410|285 adult male and 298 adult female Red-winged Blackbirds, Agelaius phoeniceus, from localities throughout Florida were collected during the breeding season. Specimens were prepared and examined to determine the nature and extent of geographic variation in morphological characters. Mean wing length, tail length and weight decrease clinally from northwest to southeast, except that birds from the Keys are larger than birds from the Everglades. Other morphological characters vary similarly but to a lesser degree. Color of streaking in females in darkest in the northwest and lightest in the southeast. With the possible exception of the Everglades population, recognition of more than one subspecies of the Red-winged Blackbird in Florida is not warranted.
24321121|Pelvic vestiges of 129 Florida manatees (Trichechus manatus latirostris) were examined to determine if size and gender could be determined from isolated bones. The distinctions are not apparent in smaller specimens but become more obvious with increases in total body length (TBL). Animals equal to or less than 150 cm have rudimentary pelvics that are composed of cartilage. At approximately 160 cm TBL, an ossification center develops within this cartilage. At approximately 200 cm TBL, the pelvics continue to form in bone but lack sexually dimorphic features. In animals larger than 225 cm TBL, the pelvic bones gradually develop dimorphic features. There is obvious sexual dimorphism among larger individuals, with male pelvic bones being more robust than female pelvic bones.
24321862|The macroinvertebrate communities of four tidal creeks along the eastern shore of Charlotte Harbor were sampled bimonthly from May 2008 to June 2010. The objective of the sampling effort was to survey the benthic macroinvertebrate taxa and assess water quality characteristics and habitat conditions which may influence macroinvertebrate community structure. A total of 156 different taxa were found in these creeks, several of which were very common throughout the study area. Macroinvertebrate communities differed among tidal creeks and corresponded, in part, to benthic habitat type and diversity and to a lesser extent average salinity and other environmental conditions. These results emphasize the importance of both physical habitat and variability in environmental conditions such as long term salinity regimes and occurrences of large inflow events in supporting a diverse macroinvertebrate community.
24320059|The effects of dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) on regional blood flow were determined in rats using Sapirstein's method for the fractional distribution of 86Rb. In the control, 60 white rats were anesthetized with sodium pentobarbital and then given approximately 4.5 million dpm of 86Rb by the femoral vein. The experimental group was given 0.5 gskg of pure DMSO via the contralateral vein 5 min prior to 86Rb injection. Animals in both groups sacrificed at 2, 5, 10, 30, 60, and 300 sec showed no significant changes in the blood flow to the heart, lungs, kidneys, thyroids, brain or skin; however, changes were observed in the livers, stomachs, spleens, guts, and carcasses of the experimental group.
24321001|The wildlife function and value of a wetland is typically assessed by comparison with an idealized or actual standard. Described here is an alternative approach that uses Virtual Reference Wetlands (VRWs) as the standard for comparison. VRWs are established by compiling a list of all wildlife species occurring in regional wetlands from available literature. VRWs are applicable to a variety of assessment situations. The VRW approach was applied to wildlife use of a created wetland to illustrate the utility of VRWs. The created wetland wildlife community was found to be relatively rich, due in part to the occurrence of upland birds. Consistent with its physical characteristics, the wildlife community more closely resembled that of freshwater marshes of the region. Habitat specialists were just as likely to occur in the created wetland as were habitat generalists. VRWs would likely be of comparable value in other assessment situations.
24319657|Field and herbarium studies confirm 5 native, naturalized or adventive Merremia in Florida. Two of the species have not been recorded previously. Keys and illustrations are given with other data.
24319444|Excavation of 40 tunnel systems of Geomys pinetis revealed a high percentage contained a sharply pitched, tightly spiraled, "staircase" tunnel connecting shallow and deep burrow passages. In addition to the previously unknown spiral tunnels, specialized nest and food cache chambers were discovered in the bi-level tunnel system.
24320134|Recently developed scenarios of nuclear winter effects originating from a nuclear exchange in the north temperate zone point to localized periodic freezes reaching as far south as the Tropic of Capricorn. The effects of freezes on Florida's agriculture and natural ecosystems are assessed as analogs of what might occur at lower latitudes should freezing temperatures from a nuclear winter reach into the tropics. Vegetation damage, population fluctuations, restricted distributions, fish kills, and crop losses are recurrent features associated with freezes in Florida. However, Florida's freezes can only serve as a partial analog because of bioclimatic dissimilarities between tropical regions and the Florida peninsula. Florida, itself, would suffer severe environmental consequences during a nuclear winter, yet certain features of its environment may permit a relatively rapid recovery.
24319692|The passage of Hurricane David had dramatic effects on the surface to bottom salinity gradient recorded in the Ft. Pierce Inlet. The Inlet is located in the Indian River on Florida's Atlantic coast. Salinities measured at meter intervals from surface to bottom, 12 da before the passage of the Hurricane, showed the water column to be vertically homogeneous. Eight da after the Hurricane, the water column was highly stratified during the ebb tide with a maximum surface to bottom salinity difference of 11.9 ppt. The flood tide was homogeneous after about 2 hr. Thus, the extensive rainfall during Hurricane David changed what was a wellmixed inlet into a highly stratified one during the ebb tide.
24321386|As in Kentucky and North Carolina, Rafinesque's big-eared bat, Corynorhinus rafinesquii, at the southernmost known colony which is in Osceola County in central Florida fed primarily on moths throughout much of the year, although they ate a few other insects, mainly flies and beetles. Nearly all of the moths were noctuids. Several calliphorids were eaten, and it is possible that the bats caught them in the roost.
24319924|Analysis of the relationship between total energy consumption and Gross State Product and total income for the Florida economy were undertaken for the years 1960-78. Extremely robust relationships were found and the energy disruptions and price increases associated with the period 1973-74 seemed to have resulted in only a temporary decoupling between energy and economic activity. Relationships for 1977 and 1978 returned to pre-1973 levels.
24320255|The responses to low-frequency, irregularly-pulsed sounds of juvenile lemon sharks (Negaprion brevirostris) that were born in captivity and deprived of normal experience were measured. These sounds were produced by a mechanical device oscillating a transparent plastic flipper at a frequency of 12.5 Hz. The sounds were known to attract juvenile sharks that were captured in the field but experientially-deprived sharks were not attracted to these sounds in initial tests. The sharks were then provided with opportunities to capture living prey and to experience auditory stimulation associated with wounded, struggling fish. These experiences were not sufficient to overcome the possible inhibitory effect on responsiveness of social isolation during testing. To verify the existence of a social factor the sharks were then tested in groups of three. Their approach-response level indicated attraction and compared favorably with juvenile sharks that had species-typical feeding and rearing experiences. Due to the confounding of social conditions during testing with experience in the present work it is not possible to isolate the roles of experiential and social factors in responsiveness to sounds. Suggestions for further research are made to resolve these issues.
24321040|Studies were conducted to investigate the palatability of 7-spot ladybird beetles (Coccinella septapunctata) to adult males of the golden mouse, Ochrotomys nuttali, as well as to determine what cues were used by these mice to avoid contact with these beetles. Ladybird beetles were presented to captive mice either intact (unbled) or after being bled to remove the reflex hemolymph discharged after being bitten (reflex bleeding), and in various treatment groups in which the beetle's color pattern, taste, or odor were added to a palatable control bark beetle, either alone or in various combinations. Unbled 7-spot ladybird beetles were unpalatable to O. nuttalli, and were rejected by a majority of these mice even after reflex-bleeding. Twenty-eight and 40.7% of the unbled and reflex-bled beetles were rejected based on visual cues (color pattern of the elytra) alone. The overall survivorship of 7-spot beetles after an encounter with a mouse was high for both bled (82.7%) and unbled (79.3%) insects. Only 15.7% of the unbled beetles were eaten following an attack as compared to 5.6% of the reflex-bled beetles. Seventy-five and 84.6% of the bled and unbled beetles, respectively, survived an attack (chewing) indicating that these insects can survive even after some degree of mandibulation by these mice. Although golden mice responded to visual, olfactory, and gustatory cues, either singly or in combination with one another, odor alone resulted in a lower level of rejection. When presented with the color pattern of the beetle alone, there was an initial high rate of rejection by these mice which then decreased significantly after three trials.
24320663|A study was conducted (March 1988 to December 1993) to determine status of selected physico-chemical parameters of water and sediments in Lake Jessup, central Florida, and to elucidate the relationships between chemistry of the sediments and that of the overlying water. Quantitative samples of the lake water and sediments were collected from 1230 stations and analyzed. With the increase in turbidity due to wind actions or other factors, soluble reactive P (SRP) concentrations in water at the sediment-water interface and subsequently the concentrations of chlorophyll a in the lake increased. Turbidity and elevated dissolved solids in the water resulted in an increase in electrical conductivity of the water. Mean concentrations of Kjeldahl nitrogen, extractable SRP, and total organic carbon in sediments were 10.91, 0.0188, and 65.5 mg/g, respectively. Such high concentrations of these nutrients in sediments probably interact and affect the overlying water. Sediments in Lake Jessup showed a high degree of spatial variability with respect to chemical characteristics. Some areas of the lake bottom supported high levels of organic carbon. The results reported here present an initial database on nutrient status (water and sediments) of Lake Jessup.
24319427|Adult pinfish, Lagodon rhomboides, were collected during September and October, 1974 and 1975. Following a minimum of one wk holding period, females were initially injected with 200 IU human chorionic gonadotropin and injected with 400 IU every second day thereafter until mature ova (0.90-0.93 mm diam.) were produced. Ova were artificially fertilized and the embryonic period (sensu Balon, 1975) described and illustrated. Emergence occurred 48 hr after fertilization at 18C and eye pigmentation appeared 144 hr after fertilization. Larval total length at emergence was 2.3 mm; at 96 hr post-emergence, 2.7 mm; and at 120 hr post-emergence, 2.5 mm. Decrease in length and death of larvae after 96 hr post-emergence was probably due to malnutrition and subsequent infection.
24321784|The invasive Burmese python has been firmly established in southern Florida for several years, has undergone a population explosion, and is spreading northward. Unanswered questions include the python's effect on native biota, and what future effect can be expected in areas annexed into the python's range. To address these questions, mammal counts were conducted inside and outside of the python's southern Florida range, in similar habitats, to determine their effect on mammal species. Samples revealed far fewer mammals within Everglades National Park, especially small mammals which are a suitable size for consumption for most of a python's life.
24319396|Co-occurrence of turtle and alligator eggs in the same nest suggests a possible symbiotic relationship.
24321562|The biological integrity of contaminated sediments in Watson Bayou was evaluated. Results demonstrated the applicability of the biological integrity standard for estuarine systems in the State of Florida and the value of sediment quality guidelines in the development of sediment standards. Regardless of how the biological integrity data were examined, the results consistently showed that the sediments from Watson Bayou failed to meet the standard. A significant negative association between biological metrics and sediment contamination was also found. However, this comparison was performed between the highly contaminated sediments of Watson Bayou and the relatively pristine sediments found in bayous associated with North Bay.
24320259|Two thousand one hundred forty-three sharks, representing 6 families and 29 species, were examined from shark tournaments, taxidermy firms, fishing docks and longline vessels, from 28 February 1979 through 1 November 1980. Preliminary data on the recreational fisheries for sharks in the southeast United States, on the shark "by-catch" of the Japanese longline fishery for bluefin tuna, and on the biology of species found off southeast Florida are presented.
24320077|A new subspecies of Anolis baleatus, one of the three species of Hispaniolan giant anoles, is described from a single specimen taken on Isla Saona off the extreme southeastern end of Hispaniola; comparisons of the new taxon are made with the two adjacent mainland subspecies. A brief discussion of the Saonan herpetofauna reveals high incidence of subspecific endemism.
24320720|There is evidence of a changing macroalgae population in Hillsborough Bay, the northeastern section of Tampa Bay. Since 1986 there has been a steady decline in the abundance of macroalgae, with biomass falling from a peak of 86.81 grams dry weight/square meter (gdw/m2) in 1987, to 66.32 gdw/m2 in 1992. In addition to biomass reductions, there also appears to be changes occurring in species composition. Gracilaria was the dominant alga throughout the 1980s, but this species has been declining in abundance and at present Spyridia and Agardhiella are found in similar quantities as Gracilaria. Ulva and Chaetomorpha occasionally occur in large quantities as well, but there is not a clear trend found with these species.
24321734|This research examines trends in species richness and abundance of coral reef fishes from seven coral reef sites in the Florida Keys that have experienced a significant decline in coral cover between 1996 and 2000. Reef Environment Education Foundation (REEF) surveys (n = 470) collected by experts between 1994 and 2001 were used to compare the species richness and abundance of coral reef fishes. A total of 96 fish species were identified as using coral reef as their primary habitat. There were no significant declines in species richness of coral reef fishes at any of the study sites between 1994 and 2001. A comparison of coral reef fish abundance based on proportion presence combined from all seven sites resulted in a significant decline in abundance for 19 species (20%). Ten of the coral reef fishes that declined from the seven reef sites also appear to be declining region wide in the Florida Keys. REEF provides near real-time data for the Florida Keys, but long-term coral and fish surveys using other methods are still needed to identify decadal patterns in species richness and abundance in the Florida Keys.
24319981|Reproductive activity in common snook (Centropomus undecimalis) was investigated by examining 57 male and 83 female specimens collected near Fort Pierce, Florida during 1984-85. From late April to early October, yolked eggs were present and spawning could have occurred. From mid-April to mid-September, mean oocyte diameter was in the range 313-419 m, mean female gonadosomatic index was 2.0-5.0 %, and male GSI was 0.8-2.0 %.
24319779|I present some of the findings of a needs assessment survey among migrant/farm-workers in rural southern Hillsborough County. The study concentrates on educational levels, family size and income levels of the predominantly Hispanic target population. Some attitudinal data are presented.
24322342|Approximately 423 cubic meters of living oysters were relocated from Phillippi Creek in order to create artificial oyster reefs along the Intracoastal Waterway (ICWW) in Sarasota, Florida. Phillippi Creek was about to be maintenance dredged to allow the passage of small boats and, as a mitigation response, the West Coast Inland Navigation District, which was responsible for the maintenance dredging, suggested that living oysters be relocated from the creek to new locations nearby on the ICWW. This effort was closely coordinated with the Florida Department of Environmental Protection's Habitat Restoration Group (Tampa Office). Over a three year monitoring period, some of the relocation sites proved to be more conducive to growth and development of oysters than others. However, even with naturally occurring perturbations in the environment, the relocation of living oysters plus shell material from Phillippi Creek to various locations along the nearby ICWW has provided stability to shorelines as well as habitat for fish, invertebrates and birds and other wildlife. In addition, most of the sites continue to provide viable areas for settlement of spat and growth of new oysters. Overall, this effort is viewed as a successful attempt to establish viable oyster communities where none existed previously.
24320411|A study was conducted for one year before and for one year after construction of rotary ditches in breached impoundments to document water quality changes in high marsh pothole habitats. Some of the weekly collected data included salinity, dissolved oxygen, nitrogen, phosphate and turbidity. Changes in the control vs. treatment means after construction were generally not significant while some extremes were reduced, which may indicate a more stable environment. This stabilization should support a larger population and diversity offish contributing to better control in these mosquito production habitats. This study is a preliminary step to demonstrating the ability of Open Marsh Water Management by rotary ditching to enhance the high-marsh habitat.
24320381|Generally, ground water contamination is a reality associated with landfills constructed prior to about 1980-1984. In some cases this contamination has reached public and private drinking water supplies. State laws adopted in the mid-1980s requiring ground water monitoring at all landfills have accelerated discovery of ground water contamination problems associated with landfills. In addition, federal investigations under Superfund have identified sources of contamination and in some cases provided funds for remedial action at these sites. Remedial action is also being conducted by the state of Florida, municipalities and the private sector. For the past 4-5 years, landfills have been constructed in a manner that greatly reduces the potential for ground water contamination through the use of liner systems, slurry walls, leachate collection and detection systems, and mandatory ground water monitoring. However, there is a trend in Florida to reduce our reliance on the use of landfills by increasing our use of recycling and energy recovery systems.
24321395|The Atlantic cutlassfish, Trichiurus lepturus, occurs in tropical and temperate waters including United States coastal waters. Although T. lepturus is an important commercial species, and its biology and ecology have been studied in various oceans, little research has been conducted in the western Atlantic. In the winter of 2005, T. lepturus were abundant in Port Everglades, Florida. Thirty-four of thirty-six fish, collected by hook and line were females and a gonosomatic index indicated a spawning interval during the months of January and February. However, during the same months in 2006 T. lepturus were absent or of low abundance.
24320502|We observed ten amphibian and reptile species between January 1990 and April 1991 on Egmont Key, Hillsborough County, Florida. Four additional species (Anolis carolinensis, Cnemidophorus sexlineatus, Sceloporus undulatus, Scincella lateralis) are known only from museum specimens collected in 1869-1870 and 1904 and are thought to be extirpated, possibly as a result of predation by feral cats. The possible origins of the island's herpetofauna are discussed.
24321998|Differences in the volatilization temperatures and sources of inputs of nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) suggest that fire will decrease N relative to P over the short term and that N will increase relative to P over the long term after fire. In Florida scrubby flatwoodsa pyrogenic ecosystem that occurs on sandy nutrient-poor soilswe tested the hypotheses that N availability increases with time-since-fire, that P availability decreases with time-since-fire, and that the ratio of available N to P increases with time-since-fire. We measured nutrient availability and soil characteristics in scrubby flatwoods sites along a time-since-fire chronosequence (1, 4, 6, 8, and 10 yr since fire). Resin-exchangeable and K2SO4-extractable N, soil N and C pools, potential net N mineralization, chloroform-labile microbial N, resin-exchangeable PO43-, and resin-exchangeable N:P ratios did not differ significantly with time-since-fire. Turnover of organic matter likely controls nutrient availability in scrubby flatwoods; and low organic matter in sandy scrubby flatwoods soils, coupled with sequestration of nutrients in plant biomass, appears to limit accumulation of soil N with time-since-fire. In contrast to many other fire-influenced ecosystems, we did not detect a long-term effect of fire on nutrient availability in scrubby flatwoods.
24319919|Large quantities of inexpensive, sterile seawater are needed for a variety of scientific applications. A dozen organic compounds have been identified that possess the necessary properties (nontoxicity, persistence in seawater, high extinction coefficients, appropriate spectra) to exploit photodynamic action and destroy toxigenic bacteria and viruses found in seawater. These compounds were evaluated to determine their absorption by a clam (Mercenaria mercenaria) and their effectiveness toward Escherichia coli through photodynamic action. As a result of preliminary evaluation, 5 compounds expressed suitable characteristics warranting further study. These compounds killed E. coli, but did not appear to injure M. mercenaria nor were they absorbed intact by the clams. Further testing is required to establish the limits of effectiveness in sterilizing seawater through photodynamic action.
24319432|Temperature, time and cooling regimes were established for transformation of soft hematite and iron glance into maghemite in an oxidizing atmosphere; hematite structure seems to aid in retaining magnetic properties in an oxidizing atmosphere.
24319518|Acetabularia calyculus is reported from lagoons on the Florida East Coast.
24320676|Three different types of small mammal traps used for a total of 5,940 trapnights each were compared by chi-square analysis for overall sampling effectiveness and for species-related differences in captures. Two types of snap traps (museum special and Victor mouse) and Sherman live traps were tested. Results indicated differences in trapping success for various species among the 3 types, and Victor mouse traps were less effective at sampling the small mammal community as a whole.
24321032|The academic genealogical trees of over 20 members of the Department of Chemistry at the University of South Florida were assembled. This is a listing of the faculty members, their doctoral institution and the year of the degree, followed by the same information for the person who directed their doctoral dissertations (and their degree institutions and date of degree), and so on back to (typically) one of three persons about 200 years ago: Jns Jacob Berzelius, A. F. de Fourcroy, or C. L. Berthollet. Fewer than 1012 generations separate most chemists from these three chemists. Methods and sources of information used in obtaining the information are given. The advantages are the assistance to a study of the history of chemistry, and a better appreciation of the past. The disadvantages are the challenges in determining the major advisor of a given individual, and problems obtaining information for persons in interdisciplinary areas, e.g., some biochemists, and some physical chemists, whose training was in physics. The value of this analysis is self-evident.
24321225|Population dynamics and home range in populations of the Key Largo woodrat (Neotoma floridana smalli), Key Largo cotton mouse (Peromyscus gossypinus allapaticola) and the introduced black rat (Rattus rattus) were investigated in four tropical hardwood hammocks on Key Largo, Florida. The hammocks represented three different age classes: medium (disturbed between 1940 and 1959), medium-old (disturbed between 1926 and 1940), and old (disturbed before 1926). N. floridana in medium-old hammock had the highest population size and high female reproduction, where R. rattus was absent. N. floridana, in old-aged hammock, had low recruitment, low female reproduction, seasonal male reproduction, and a larger home range compared to other sites. In the presence of R. rattus, N. floridana had low population size, reduced survivorship, and a male biased population. Medium-aged hammocks had the highest abundance of P. gossypinus. However, the presence of R. rattus caused P. gossypinus to reduce their home range size in those hammocks. R. rattus was only present in a mediumaged grid, where it had high population size and recruitment.
24321388|Certain species of algae inhabit the transitional boundary between terrestrial and aquatic zones, typically found in wetlands. These species develop morphological features when they are slowly exposed to drying conditions. The fringe area of twenty wetlands with either decreasing or static water levels were compared to determine if these morphological features could be used as a potential indicator of hydrology in south Florida. One species, Microspora amoena, found in 83 percent of the samples, was found to undergo morphological changes that correlated to changes in wetland water levels. The filaments collected on the fringe of the wetlands that had undergone a drying period two weeks prior to collection had features that were indicative of desiccation tolerance, including thickened cell walls, augmentation of carotenoid pigments and the formation of resting cells. Filaments collected in the wetland areas that had not undergone a decrease in water levels or were fully submerged did not display these traits. These different morphologies would traditionally lead to separate species; however, this variation appears to be simply a response to environmental conditions.
24320244|Asiatic clams (Corbicula manilensis Philippi) were sampled at 12 stations along a 16 km reach of the Wekiva River, Florida at 3-mo intervals between August 1976 and June 1977. The abundance of the clams range from 4-1,210 per m2. The greatest numbers of clams were found where the bottom sediments were comprised of clean, fine sand; lowest numbers were found in silty, organic sediments near the headwaters. Seasonally, larger clams were collected in December 1976 (mean shell length = 13.7 mm), whereas small clams were most evident in March 1977 (mean shell length = 13.1 mm).
24320121|A taxonomic and biogeographic analysis was made of populations of two Cafius species from the coasts of the Caribbean, Gulf of Mexico, and Atlantic North America. Cafius bilineatus (Erichson), whose type locality is St. John's, Antigua, is a synonym of C. bistriatus (Erichson), whose type locality is Long Island, New York. Two subspecies of C. bistriatus are recognized: C. b. bistriatus [new status] from the Caribbean, Gulf of Mexico, and Atlantic North America, and C. b. fulgens Frank [new subspecies] from the coasts of the Gulf of California, Baja California, and the Salton Sea. The typical subspecies has two disjunct populations: a northern population from Virginia northwards at least to the Gulf of St. Lawrence, and a southern population in the Caribbean, the southern part of the Gulf of Mexico, and lower peninsular Florida. The principal habitat of C. bistriatus is stranded macrophytic algae. Distribution of this species appears to be determined by the distribution of such algae, for they form the basal material of the food chain in which Cafius adults and larvae exist as predators. Cafius rufifrons Bierig, whose type locality is Havana, Cuba, is restricted to part of Cuba and extreme southern Florida; adults differ in color and structure from those of C. bistriatus and are of smaller average size. Cafius rufifrons and C. bistriatus occur in the same habitats in extreme southern Florida and the reason for the very restricted distribution of C. rufifrons is not clear.
24321105|This study analyzed the effects of aging and chronic diet restriction on the concentrations of monoamine neurotransmitters (NTs) in the cerebral cortex of young (6 months) and old (30 months) males of the Florida mouse, Podomys floridanus. Control animals were fed ad libitum (AL). Aging per se had no significant effect on either the levels of dopamine (DA), norepinephrine (NE), 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT = serotonin) or some of their metabolites such as 3.4-dihydroxyphenyl-acetic acid (DOPAC), homovanilic acid (HVA) and 5-hydroxy-indoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), in the frontal cortex. Dietary restriction (DR) in old mice caused a significant increase in levels of 5-HT and the DOPAC + HVA / DA ratio. Aging and DR had no effect on NTs or their metabolites in the parietal cortex. In the occipital cortex, levels of 5-HT were significantly higher in old mice as compared to younger conspecifics; there was no difference in the levels of DA or NE. The ratio of 5-HIAA / 5-HT was significantly reduced in older animals. The results also suggest that serotonergic neurons are influenced to a greater extent by senescence than catecholaminergic neurons. DR during the aging process resulted in higher DA concentrations in the frontal cortex.
24321669|The findings of the first 24 years of an ongoing study of the species composition, population structures, and population trends of marine turtles in the central region of the Indian River Lagoon are reported. This region serves as developmental habitat for loggerheads (Caretta caretta) and green turtles (Chelonia mydas). There is significant variation in the seasonal population structure of green turtles but not that of loggerheads. There are no meaningful long-term trends in the population structure for either species. There is significant variation in the seasonal abundance of green turtles but not of loggerheads. Green turtles have shown an increase in long-term abundance which, when viewed along with green turtle nesting trends in Florida and with genetic data identifying the origin of the juveniles in the lagoon and juvenile green turtles in other foraging aggregations, suggests that the Florida green turtle population is beginning to recover. Although loggerheads have shown an increase in abundance recently, no trend is discernable.
24320993|An analysis is made of the cost of processing etchant wastes from electronic industries using a process of reduction with sugar, followed by chelation and extraction with a cloud-point technique. This less-common extraction method was previously used to extract chromium(III) ion from aqueous solution. Using a nonionic surfactant solution and 8-hydroxyquinoline (or a derivative), a chromium(III) complex and unreacted chelating agent were extracted into the micellar phase at a temperature above the cloud-point temperature within two hours. The molar ratio, pH, temperature and hydrophobicity of the chelating agent were factors determining the extraction efficiency. Extraction efficiency was improved to 99%, and chromium concentration was reduced from 55 ppm to less than 1 ppm when excess chelating agent was used at pH 5.5 at 70 C. Analysis indicates the procedure could be much cheaper than current hazardous waste disposal practices.
24319451|Seventy extractions of chlorophyll a from leaves along a vertical profile yielded the following results: 1) chlorophyll a content in g/m2 leaf surface was 0.289 (0.021 to 0.396); 2) leaves from different species did not indicate any clear differences; 3) Margalef ratios (OD430/OD665) averaged 2.04 with 4.00 observed for leaf litter; and 4) chlorophyll a content was 1.7 g/m2 ground surface. It is suggested that a uniform chlorophyll distribution in the forest permits quick responses in the photosynthetic machinery to changes in solar energy inputs, thus maintaining optimum power output of photosynthesis. Comparison of several steady-state and successional systems suggests that Margalef ratios may not be useful as indicators of succession for terrestrial ecosystems.
24320501|This paper presents a descriptive and comparative analysis of skeletal remains from the Briarwoods Site (8Pa66), Pasco County, Florida, dated circa A.D. 1000-1500. The fragmentary sample (N=87), included a minimum of 28 males and 11 females for whom sex could he determined. Where age estimation was possible, adults outnumbered juveniles 45 to 12. Stature averaged 158.2 cm (N=4 males). When several sites were compared, sex and adult:subadult ratios, and stature for all sites showed wide variation. At 17.4%, the frequency of pathological lesions or anomalies at Briarwoods was considerably higher than the other burial sites. Adult teeth were characterized by occlusal attrition to the dentin, but no caries.
24321172|The use of the Lemna minor L. species of duckweed has proven to be effective in uptake and control of nitrogen and phosphorus levels. This research examines the uptake of nitrogen and phosphorus by L. minor under controlled environmental conditions using two 1600-mL Plexiglas L. minor growth reactors in tandem that permitted known concentrations of micronutrients to be added at known rates. Nutrient concentrations were measured until a depleted concentration state was reached (in a two-week period) A modified high nitrate Hillman's medium was used, and there was a 10% surface harvest every other day after the fourteenth day. This setup mimics the effluent wastewater going from one duckweed pond to another. The harvest improved the removal of nitrogen and phosphorus since the duckweed had room to grow.
24320285|Minimum temperatures of less than 0C were recorded on 2 nights during January, 1981 in Taylor Slough within the Everglades National Park. Resulting frost severely damaged 16 plant species, did moderate damage to 12 species, and had no apparent effect on 12 species. The effect was a minor short-term impact on plant species with a more pronounced impact on live and dead biomass. Measurements pre- and post-frost indicated a significant 25 % decrease in live biomass with a corresponding 12% increase in the dead component. Seasonally occurring frosts can have a significant impact on fuels of less than 6 mm size, and may influence fire behavior.
24320014|The Florida Department of Environmental Regulation has established detailed dissolved oxygen standards for the various classes of surface water in the state. The results of this study and a review of the literature reveal that many natural humic-colored aquatic systems (usually Class III waters) rarely meet the established 5 mg/L criteria. We believe, based on our studies, that these conditions are natural and do not result from organic pollution. In view of this, we believe a review of the current DER Standard, for humic-colored waters only, is in order.
24321835|In April and May 2000, we conducted surveys for rare vertebrate species on the Fisheating Creek Phase I easement lands, Glades County, FL, which contains ca. 3.3% of Florida's remaining dry prairie habitat. A large population of gopher tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus) is present, and we documented the gopher frog (Lithobates capito), American crocodile (Crocodylus acutus), eastern diamondback rattlesnake (Crotalus adamanteus), eastern indigo snake (Drymarchon couperi), and Florida pine snake (Pituophis melanoleucus). We recorded 68 families of Florida scrub-jays (Aphelocoma coerulescens) totaling 157 individuals and three active clusters of red-cockaded woodpeckers (Picoides borealis). The easement and adjacent lands had 16 possible previous nest sites of Florida sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis), seven Audubon's crested caracara (Caracara cheriway) territories, five southern bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) nests, and six swallow-tailed kite (Elanoides forficatus) nests. We observed signs of Florida black bear (Ursus americanus), and a male Florida panther (Puma concolor) moved onto the property and died of unknown causes. More intensive surveys would be necessary to document additional wildlife species and to determine population levels. We recommend the timely use of prescribed fire as a management tool to maintain or restore dry prairie, scrubby flatwoods, and scrub habitats for wildlife, cattle, and biological diversity.
24320759|Records from government agencies, local industries, consultants and individuals who had conducted air quality research in Duval County over the past 30 years were searched to find all documentable papers. The literature search is described in this first of a three-part series which was part of an attempt to find the cause for the high lung cancer rate in Duval County (50% higher than the national average among white males).
24320314|Field studies in a shallow lagoon indicated that quantitatively reliable estimates of inorganic nutrients, active phytoplankton chlorophyll a, and copepod nauplii can be obtained with a tube-type sampler. Samples collected in shallow, well-mixed water by a water column sampler (=7.62-cm ID, 4.57 m long, 0.021 m3 capacityPVC tube) and a discrete-depth sampler (=7.62-cm ID, 0.49 m long, 0.005 m3 capacityNiskin bottle) were statistically similar. The number of copepod nauplii captured in the tube sampler was significantly greater (ca. 2X) than the densities obtained in a 25-cm ID, 64-m mesh net.
24321201|The major objective of this study was to quantify temporal and spatial patterns of hypoxia in the Cedar Key salt marsh of northwestern Florida and identify predictors of dissolved oxygen availability. In the tidal creeks of the marsh, dissolved oxygen levels were highly variable, conforming to the general trend of coastal salt marshes. Hypoxic conditions (<2.0 mg l1) were not infrequent events at the collection site, occurring on 10 of the 13 sampling dates over a 21-mo period. Despite the number of interactive variables influencing dissolved oxygen concentration, there were clear diurnal trends, with oxygen levels being lower near sunrise. In addition, oxygen levels varied with season and tidal cycles. Daily mean dissolved oxygen measured when the morning tide was low was lowest in the summer and highest in the winter. Daily mean dissolved oxygen taken on an afternoon low tide was lowest in the summer and highest in the fall.
24319734|Several occurrences of an unknown species of Tricholoma were recorded during the summer of 1978. Pileus diameters of mature basidiocarps ranged from 20-75 cm. Habitat features are characterized. Aspects of growth and development under natural conditions are discussed.
24320620|Morphometric variables (body weight, beard length, spur lengths) were compared from male turkeys harvested from private tracts and Wildlife Management Areas during the 1992 and 1993 spring turkey seasons. Differences across years and between land type, age class, and regional zone were not significant. In data pooled across year and zone, differences in variables were not significant for hatching-year individuals. Differences in all variables for after-hatching-year (AHY) individuals were significant (P<0.0003), as was age at harvest. Compared to AHY turkeys harvested from public lands, those harvested from private lands were older (X=8.5 months), weighed significantly more, and had significantly longer beards and spurs.
24321662|The Indian River Lagoon (IRL) is a highly complex ecosystem that continues to defy full scientific understanding. This presents significant challenges to public understanding, effective ecosystem management, and long-term stewardship. For the IRL, the 21st century brings many challenges to maintain the health and biological diversity of this unique ecosystem in a region of unprecedented human population growth and coastal development. To address environmental challenges created by growth management policy failures, continued rapid expansion of the region's human population and emerging regional or global trends, IRL scientists must work to 1. Create a unified vision for IRL scientific research development and implementation; 2. Accelerate implementation of multidisciplinary research and monitoring programs that consider emerging threats and integrate both applied and basic research at a variety of spatial and temporal scales; and 3. Implement a coordinated and comprehensive approach to IRL education and information outreach to enhance scientific literacy and promote public understanding for the complex nature and value of the IRL (from molecular to ecosystem levels, with balanced integration of ecological, economic, and human-value perspectives). These actions require the application of leading-edge scientific knowledge, emerging new technologies in scientific research and communication, increased funding, and innovative thinking about the biotic and abiotic processes (including the human interactions) that serve as the functional cornerstones for IRL ecosystem health and sustainability.
24321219|Densities and length frequencies were different for Corbicula fluminea (Muller, 1774) collected from two habitat types, pool and run, in the New River (Suwannee Drainage), Florida. An area of 250 m2 in each habitat type was searched and excavated to determine Asian clam densities. Densities were greatest in the pool habitat, ranging from 0 to 512 individuals/0.25 m2 with a mean density of 26.9 individuals/0.25 m2 (SD = 49.47). Densities in the run ranged from 0 to 260 individuals/0.25 m2 with a mean density of 16.2 individuals/0.25 m2 (SD = 23.96). In the pool habitat, densities were greatest in clay and coarse sand substrates. In the run habitat, densities were greatest in sandy mud and detritus sediments. Length ranged from 8 to 25 mm in the pool and 3 to 27 mm in the run. Mean length in the pool habitat was 18.7 mm (SD = 2.15) and 17.9 mm (SD = 3.84) in the run habitat. Mean length was significantly greater in the pool (n = 2000, p = 1.5E09).
24319967|Equal access to education, employment opportunities, career options and independent functioning has long been the aspiration of individuals with physical handicaps. Historically, physically handicapped persons have been denied access to public education and employment opportunities commensurate with their abilities. This study supported these contentions and further indicated that barriers still exist for individuals with physical handicaps. The purpose of this study was to identify physically handicapped scientists in the State of Florida and to determine the extent to which businesses, agencies and organizations were employing scientists with handicaps. From the 608 businesses, agencies, and organizations surveyed, only 16 physically handicapped scientists were identified. A questionnaire was then sent to these 16 scientists to obtain specific information related to their educational training and professional career development. Analysis of the results revealed that, overall, few scientists with handicaps reside within the State of Florida; businesses, agencies and organizations are not employing the physically handicapped in scientific areas; and there is still gross underrepresentation of physically handicapped scientists in scientific fields.
24319987|More children previously thought unadoptable are being adopted. "Special needs" children can be successfully placed, but the process requires careful guidance. Twelve key informants were interviewed to produce information on adoption agencies in the Tampa Bay area. Questionnaires were administered to 132 providers and consumers of adoption counseling services, including foster, prospective and adoptive parents, adoptees, and various professional support personnel. The questionnaire concerned vital statistics, rating and ranking of counseling services, assessment of need for expanding existing services or creating new ones, and comments. Findings suggest that there is a need for expansion of counseling services. Shortages of staff, time, and funds place limitations on the amount and quality of counseling services provided.
24321544|A phylogenetic analysis of large ribosomal subunit (26S) rRNA gene DNA sequences suggests that the southern Indian pipe, Monotropa brittonii Small, is not a distinct species. Specifically, results from this analysis indicate that this taxon is phylogenetically indistinct from a set of North American representatives of M. uniflora, M. brittonii is most appropriately treated as synonym of M. uniflora.
24319554|The known number of living Indiana bats (Myotis sodalis) has declined 28% in the last 15 yr. Winter populations represent two large breeding units, Kentucky and Missouri, and other smaller units not delimited by existing data. Kentucky populations have declined 73%; an apparent 8% decline in Missouri reflects weather influence at one exposed roost, and Missouri populations are judged to be stable. Suitable winter habitat consists of caves and mines that have cool and stable temperatures all winter long. Typically these roosts have temperatures of 4 - 8C, enabling the bats to maintain such a low metabolism that their fat will last until spring. Causes of the decline are natural catastrophes (flooding and freezing in caves), disturbance by biologists and caving enthusiasts, and destruction of winter and summer habitat. Loss of 60,000 bats at one cave is attributable mainly to disturbance. About half of the total decline has resulted from habitat alteration structures built at cave entrances interfere with cave thermodynamic processes and make roosts too warm for bat survival. This habitat can be restored, and the decline may be reversible. Proper management should enable the species to increase its numbers to at least 615,000 individuals.
24319691|Specimens of the simultaneously hermaphroditic fish species Diplectrum formosum, the sandperch, and D. bivittatum, the dwarf sandperch, were collected near the Dry Tortugas, Florida, by means of shrimp trawl during December 1976. Stomach contents of 326 D. formosum (100 empty) and 325 D. bivittatum (131 empty) revealed little or no differences in their food habits relative to number and volume of food items, size of food items or the contribution, in grams, each food item makes to each fish. Both species primarily consumed amphipods, shrimp, crabs, fish, and polychaetes. Temporally, both species fed at the same 2 diurnal periods. Species were collected sympatrically but there were areas where each species dominates in relative abundance.
24320410|A finite element program, GROSEEP, was developed to estimate the groundwater seepage from the surficial aquifer into Indian River lagoon along a selected cross-section in Port St. Lucie, Florida. The model is a general purpose model and can be used at other cross-sections. Model results using a single layer indicate that groundwater seepage could be an important freshwater source into the lagoon. Sensitivity analysis using a threelayer model predicted that among other parameters the presence of windows in the clay layers could significantly affect seepage rates into the lagoon.
24319752|A new ecotype of Stylosanthes hamata (L.) Taub. was collected north of the Jupiter inlet. This S. hamata differed from previous collected ones in having smaller leaves, a more prostrate growth and stronger lateral branching. It could be grown at a wider range of pH's than most other ecotypes.
24321249|A stage-structured matrix model for the endangered American Crocodile (Crocodylus acutus) in Florida was constructed using published data and biologically reasonable estimates. The baseline version of the model yields a population growth rate d of 1.006, consistent with observations that the C. acutus population is slowly increasing in Florida. Elasticity or the proportional sensitivity of d with respect to changes in annual survivorship indicates that annual survivorship of sub-adults (1 m  2.25 m) has the greatest proportional effect on population growth. Annual survivorships can be affected by management and are, therefore, the parameters of most interest in this elasticity analysis. Simulated management scenarios further demonstrate the degree to which sub-adult annual survivorship can affect population growth. The finding that sub-adult annual survivorship has the greatest proportional effect on d suggests that management efforts should be concentrated toward this stage of the American crocodile.
24321535|New locality records are presented for five species of flies collected in south Florida: Aedes albopictus, Culex quinquefasciatus, Diachlorus ferrugatus, Drino rhoeo, and Stomoxys calcitrans.
24322279|We examined the diet of a February-May sample of the southern toad (Bufo terrestris) from the Everglades National Park. Above the familial level, 13 taxa were consumed, but ants (Hymenoptera) and beetles (Coleoptera) were consumed most by, and in the greatest number of stomachs of, juveniles, males, and females. Its diet was similar to that of other southern Florida populations and to that of its close relative, the Fowler's toad (B. woodhousei fowleri). Ants and beetles were likewise important dietary components of several other syntopic species in the southern Everglades where B. terrestris was one of the few ant and beetle specialists. The impact of its absence from much of urban southern Florida can not be underestimated when explaining the success of a number of exotic amphibians and reptiles that to some degree exploit or rely on one or both of these food resources.
24320350|Inputs oj copper from anti-fouling paints presently pose an environmental stress on some restricted embayments of the Indian River Lagoon, Florida. Over an 18 mo period, samples of water, suspended matter, sediments, barnacles, clams and crabs from selected sites along the Indian River and the Eau Gallie River, have been analyzed for copper. Higher than normal copper concentrations were consistently observed in the water column, sediments, barnacles and crabs collected from the Eau Gallie Harbor. Point sources of copper could be directly traced to vessel-related activities. From field data and laboratory experiments on the leaching of copper from anti-fouling paints, an estimated flux of 40 kg/yr to Eau Gallie Harbor was calculated. Up to 75 % of the total copper input to the harbor may be retained there. Outside such tributaries along the Indian River from Vero Beach to Melbourne, copper levels were within normal limits.
24321897|The 198384 Caribbean-wide mortality of the long-spined sea urchin Diadema antillarum Philippi was followed by a second mortality event in the Florida Keys in 1991. The demise of this formerly ubiquitous echinoid is one of several factors attributable to coral reef change. Over a 12-year period during 19992011, we examined densities and test sizes of D. antillarum at 1,411 sites spanning 250 km of the Florida Keys encompassing multiple habitats from inshore to the fore-reef slope. Underwater visual surveys along belt transects were used to enumerate numbers of individuals and test sizes in a stratified random sampling design. While pre-1983 densities were reported to be as high as 6 individuals/m2, surveys since 1999 indicate that current densities are well below 1 individual/m2. Although the maximum site-level density recorded during 19992011 was only 0.33 individuals/m2, there have been significant increases in the average size and maximum sizes of D. antillarum. The slow rate of population recovery may be due to low fertilization rates due to reduced population size, low larval survivorship, a lack of suitable recruitment sites, high early post-settlement mortality from predation or storms, and/or persistence of the pathogen. Regression analysis indicates that it could potentially take decades, if not longer, for D. antillarum to recover to pre-1983 density levels.
24321876|The Charlotte Harbor National Estuary Program (CHNEP) has established a foundation of objective, science-based tools to guide management of estuarine water quality and is furthering its goals under its Comprehensive Conservation and Management Plan (CCMP) to protect and restore water quality through rigorous assessment of these tools. In this study, we furthered the objectives of the CCMP by developing a water clarity evaluation and tracking tool for CHNEP estuarine waters. Benchmark points along a reference period distribution of water clarity were identified as management level criteria for evaluating water clarity and the binomial test was used to establish a scoring system to identify deviations from reference water quality conditions. The scoring system uses a rating scale that varies between -2 and 2. The resulting scores are tabulated and the numerical values are reported as color coded grades (i.e., red, yellow, or green). The grades are then compiled for each estuarine segment of the CHNEP into a table that can be easily integrated into public media formats including the new CHNEP Water Atlas.
24320051|Some 122 species and 4 varieties of benthic algae are reported from one or more of 10 different substrata, excluding seagrass leaves, or in the drift in the Anclote estuary near Tarpon Springs, Florida Gulf coast.
24319454|Young rose corals were intentionally undernourished to ease dissection of mesenterial filaments. Two types of capsular nematocysts were found in the filament; the distal ones being cylindrical and the proximal ones being tapered with a prominent axial shaft at the thicker end. Functions of these holotrichs and microbasic p-mastigophorea are not clear although extension of mesenterial filaments may have a defense/sacrifice role.
24321860|Seagrasses are important to estuarine health, influencing physical, chemical and biological environments of coastal waters. Seagrasses stabilize sediments, filter nutrients, and provide habitat for estuarine organisms. Understanding seagrass distribution and trends relative to freshwater input aids resource management. From 19962009, hydroacoustic technology was used to assess spatial and temporal fluctuations in seagrass coverage of the Caloosahatchee River Estuary relative to annual rainfall. Three estuarine areas, with different salinity regimes and species composition, were monitored three times a year for percent seagrass coverage and plant height. Sampling was performed at the beginning (spring), middle (summer), and end (fall) of the seagrass growing season. Results showed that seagrass percent coverage, percent volume infestation and plant height increased with distance downstream. All three parameters were greatest in summer, intermediate in fall and lowest during spring months. Annual rainfall influenced seagrass abundance differently. During average and wet years, seagrass measurements were greatest in summer, while in dry years measurements were similar in summer and fall. Study results indicated that seagrasses in the Caloosahatchee River Estuary are sensitive to inter-annual changes in rainfall. While there is considerable year to year variation, seagrass coverage has been relatively stable over the 13 year study period.
24319566|Zooplankton was collected from Lake Wales, Florida, from October, 1974, through September, 1975. Cladocera were the most numerous and diverse group of organisms: seven to nine species were collected each month. Cladocera abundance was seasonal, increasing in the spring as the water warmed. Copepod abundance was also related to season, with greater numbers collected in April, August and September. Rotifers were not well represented in monthly samples, but were abundant during January, April and August. Diurnal studies indicated that both Cladocera and cyclopoid copepod numbers differed significantly between day and night. Cladocera distributions were depth related, with greater numbers collected at mid-depth (1-2 m). Rotifers and calanoid copepod numbers were not correlated with either time of day or depth. The Lake Wales zooplankton community is similar to those in other central Florida lakes studied previously, but with a greater diversity of Cladocera and a paucity of rotifers.
24321406|Snags (submerged wood debris) provide one of the only stable substrates in the sand-bottomed rivers of Florida, and snag invertebrate communities are consistently one of the most species rich, diverse, and abundant of riverine ecosystem types. However, limited information exists on aquatic invertebrate communities in spring-run streams, and less exists on snag invertebrates in those ecosystems. Aquatic invertebrates on snags in the Ichetucknee River, a first-magnitude spring and spring-run stream complex located in north central Florida, were sampled in spring 2004. Invertebrates were abundant (mean density- 40,500/m2) and diverse (mean taxa richness- 33, evenness- 0.72, and diversity- 3.62) throughout the 4-km study area. Taxa from the groups Chironomidae, Trichoptera, aquatic Acari, and Amphipoda attained the greatest densities. Filterer/collectors (31%), gatherer/collectors (29%), shredders (15%), predators (12%), and scrapers (8%) account for 95% of snag invertebrates found in the study area. Community structure varied among the three morphometrically distinct reaches of the study area along with environmental conditions (current velocity, dissolved oxygen, canopy cover, and snag epiphyton biomass). As the human population of Florida continues to grow rapidly, it is imperative to monitor and protect the health of the state's springs. This data set, from a minimally-impacted spring-run stream, represents a baseline to which other spring-run streams can be compared.
24319448|Red algae are the most frequently encountered of the epiphytic marine forms in Puerto Rico. In all, 78 algal species were found to be epiphytic on 80 host species.
24320661|The Tosohatchee State Reserve in east Orange County, Florida, has a rich flora. Twelve plant species are reported from the reserve because of their uncommon occurrence or unusual distribution in central Florida.
24320415|Hourly current measurements recorded along the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway are used to quantify amplitudes and local phase angles of the principal tidal constituents in Florida's Indian River lagoon. Twenty-seven study sites located between latitudes 2710 and 2817N were occupied for periods of 12 months each during 19761988. Six principal tidal constituents (M2, S2, N2, K1, O1, and P1) have amplitudes greater than the precision of the measurements used to make the calculations. The semi-diurnal M2 constituent dominates all other tidal constituents. M2 amplitudes exceed 60 cm/s in the vicinity of Ft. Pierce Inlet; the amplitude just north of St. Lucie Inlet is approximately 45 cm/s. M2 amplitudes are relatively small in the vicinity of Sebastian Inlet: Values of 11 and 19 cm/s are computed from data obtained at study sites approximately 3 km north and south of the inlet, respectively. M2 amplitudes north of 2811N are less than 1 cm/s. A comparison of phase angles indicates that tidal wave forms propagate at speeds of 510 km/h. In the central parts of the central and southern segments of the lagoon, the time delay of any phase of the tide is 6.5 and 5 h, respectively, relative to Ft. Pierce Inlet.
24319904|A modified live trap for the capture of southeastern pocket gophers (Geomys pinetis) was developed for use in sandhill populations. Trapping success rate was 69 %. The rate of plugging of traps by pocket gophers was lower and capture rate much higher than for Sherman pocket gopher traps.
24322352|Comparing fish communities inhabiting ditches and diked shorelines associated with saltmarsh impoundments in the northern Indian River Lagoon, Florida, under a variety of management and reconnection strategies would be useful for predicting which strategies best benefit estuarine fishes. Sampling fish in impoundment habitats, however, has been challenging, particularly in impoundment ditches (borrow ditches used to provide fill for dikes), where soft sediments, sticks and debris, and fringing mangroves present problems for traditional sampling gear such as seines. The effectiveness of a cast net was tested by comparing the fish assemblages collected by this gear to those collected by throw trap and seine. Cast-net efficiency in impoundment ditches was estimated to be 0.100.28 (i.e., fish densities from cast net sampling represented 1028% of the true population). Although cast-net efficiency was less than that reported for throw traps and seines, species composition and sizes of fish were found to be comparable to the other gear. In addition to understanding differences in fish standing stock among habitats, measuring the ability of fishes to move through culverts that connect many impounded marshes to the estuary is important in gauging the success of reconnection efforts. The effectiveness of a modified culvert trap, which is lighter and less expensive than those previously used in impoundment studies, was tested. The culvert trap was successful at capturing fish moving through culverts in the microtidal environment of the northern Indian River Lagoon, and the retention efficiency of the trap was found to be 0.25 after 1012-hr sets. The cast net and modified culvert trap together allow for a comprehensive understanding of the fish community in impounded marshes, and each may have applications to other sampling conditions.
24319549|The collection of Ammocrypta bifascia from the Apalachicola River below Woodruff Dam, Florida, represents the first recorded occurrence of the genus Ammocrypta in this major drainage and constitutes an important eastward range extension for sand darters in the Gulf coastal region.
24319647|The Pleistocene Miami Limestone Formation presently consists of the Miami Oolite and Key Largo Reef facies. It is proposed here that the Miami Oolite fades he considered as 2 separate units within the Miami Limestone Formation and penecontemporaneous to the Key Largo Reef limestone. The lower unit is called the Key West Oolite and the upper is called the Fort Dallas Oolite. The Fort Dallas unit is considered an eolian dune field formed by the breakdown of various oolitic marine bars across the mouth of Florida Bay, while the Key West unit is the remanents of some of these bars formed behind the Key Largo Reef in Sangamon time. This new division of the Miami Limestone Formation was based on field outcrops, above and below the water, the fossils, well cuttings, and an SEM study of the ooids.
24320347|A study of the most abundant sipunculan found in the Indian River Lagoon, Phascolion cryptus Hendrix, 1975, was conducted on a monthly basis from June 1976 through May 1977. These animals, which inhabit discarded gastropod shells in shallow water, were found in densities of 667 to 3,856/m2 at a station 9.25 km north of the Fort Pierce Inlet, Florida. Adult Phascolion were common in shells of 5 species of gastropods. Most frequently they inhabited Cerithium muscarum shells which comprised an average of 85% of those available for inhabitance. Population numbers were not limited by shell availability. Reproductive activity was estimated by the developmental state of coelomic gametes and spawning in the laboratory. Animals were reproductive throughout the year with a trend for higher reproductive activity from November through May. Juveniles, commonly occupying shells of Bittium varium, comprised 37 to 58% of the population during winter, spring and summer, decreasing to an average of 15.5% in the fall.
24319736|Observations of 4 spawnings of Geophagus hondae revealed a ritualized spawning sequence. The female began mouthbrooding of eggs immediately after egg deposition.
24321050|Commercially available selenium-supplement tablets, obtained from a supermarket and a health food store in several lots were analyzed to compare reported and observed values of total selenium. Atomic absorption spectrometry with a hydride generator was used, and the results were confirmed for selected lots using inductively coupled plasma (ICP) spectrometry. Results indicate more variation than might be suspected. Several lots contained a significantly higher amount of selenium than reported with one lot having 50% more. One brand contained only 2025% of the reported concentration, a significantly lower amount. Tablets were analyzed and compared to determine which brand, if any, had the most reliable amount per tablet.
24320999|Algae of the three habitats are mostly unicellular chlorophytes and cyanophytes, but chrysophycean, diatom, and euglenoid taxa are often well represented. Earlier studies were concerned with identification of the organisms in relation to specific habitats, in contrast to more recent research where confident identifications and quantitative data have been obtained from laboratory and field research. The organisms cause human and animal disease, fertilize soil, and deteriorate natural and man-made structures.
24321986|Plants have evolved chemical, morphological and biological mechanisms to defend against attack by insect herbivores, with virtually all plants employing more than one strategy. We asked whether simulated herbivory on passionflower (Passiflora incarnata) would increase leaf thickness, trichome length or density, or the production of extrafloral (EF) nectar and whether there were tradeoffs between these traits. Fifty-seven potted plants, belonging to nine genotypes, were divided into two groups. Plants in the control group were unmanipulated, while the leaves of plants in the treatment group were clipped in half with scissors throughout the summer of 2011. We quantified the amount of EF nectar produced by each plant on two separate occasions in June. At the final plant harvest in September, we measured leaf thickness, trichome density and trichome length on three haphazardly chosen leaves from each mature plant. Both leaf thickness and EF nectar production increased with herbivory (both p < 0.05), but there was no effect of treatment on trichome density or length. There were differences among genotypes for three traits, and evidence for negative genetic correlations between two pairs of traits. Such tradeoffs could constrain evolutionary response to selection and may be responsible for the evolution and maintenance of alternative plant defense strategies within a species.
24320458|This paper is a study of sea turtle hatchling, post-hatchling, and sub-adult behavior and growth. Some of my here-to-fore unpublished observations on jellyfish in Florida coastal waters, scatophagy by captive green turtles and long-term survival of headstarted green turtles are reported. The effects of ocean currents on such turtles are considered as well as information on the oceanic distribution of suitable food resources.
24321014|Aerial surveys of manatees (Trichechus manatus latirostris) were conducted between March 1994 and May 1998 to assess temporal trends in counts and activities of manatees in the Lower St. Johns River (LSJR) and Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway (ICW). More manatees were observed in the LSJR compared to the ICW. Most (5079%) manatees in LSJR were engaged in resting activity, followed by traveling (1721%) and feeding (1121%), with few observed cavorting (410%). In the ICW, manatees engaged in traveling (876%) and resting (1889%) predominantly, with little feeding (011%) and no cavorting. This suggested that the ICW was used primarily as a travel corridor for seasonal north/south migrations. Seasonal analysis revealed that manatees were distributed throughout most of the study area except in winter months, when manatees congregated at industrial sites that discharge warm-water (information about manatee usage of these sites is also discussed). Manatee seasonal distribution was correlated with high concentrations of tape grass (Vallisneria americana) which is a preferred food source for manatees. Most manatees were distributed within 91 m from shore and used the protected areas near lines of private and commercial docks to rest, feed, travel and cavort.
24321735|We examined spatial patterns of regeneration in two fringing mangrove forests along Biscayne Bay, Florida, five years after Hurricane Andrew. We quantified the intra- and interspecific spatial dispersion of Avicennia germinans (L.) Stearn (black mangrove), Laguncularia racemosa Gaertn.f. (white mangrove) and Rhizophora mangle L. (red mangrove) within plots affected by the northern eyewall (Cutler Canal, higher maximum winds and storm tide) and by the eye (Mowry Canal, lower maximum winds and storm tide) of the hurricane. We used point-to-plant and plant-to-plant distances to calculate dispersion indices for surviving trees and saplings of each species. Trees and saplings of all species were strongly aggregated at both sites. However, saplings of all species were hyperdispersed from hurricane-surviving trees and heterospecific saplings. This pattern tended to be stronger at Mowry Canal than Cutler Canal. Furthermore, aggregates of saplings at Mowry Canal tended to be monospecific, whereas more local mixing of species occurred at Cutler Canal. We hypothesize that greater storm intensity and higher mortality of Rhizophora advance recruits at Cutler Canal may have contributed to these differences in regeneration. Our results suggest that local variation in hurricane effects may be important to spatial patterns in south Florida fringing mangrove forests.
24321477|Observations of Strymon acis bartrami feeding and territorial behavior are described. Additional records of plant nectar sources for adult S. a. bartrami and larval feeding on sap are also reported. Seasonal occurrence of Anaea troglodyta floridalis at Sphyrapicus varius feeding holes is documented. Use of frass chains by early instar A. t. floridalis larvae is discussed.
24320770|The dominant term in the estimation of net flux calculation, between a marsh and a source of tidal water is often the exchange of water. The purpose of this study was to provide a description of the methodology used to estimate the volumetric exchange of surface waters between a managed marsh and the Indian River Lagoon during the managed and unmanaged periods. The paper also documents the simplifying assumptions that had to be made to estimate the exchanges both during the managed and unmanaged period. These assumptions had to be made either because the data were limited mainly due to the cost constraints of the project, or the hydrologic variables were functions of random processes that were difficult to model. The volumetric exchanges during the managed period were computed using direct flow measurements as well as by water balance and the estimated values were within 4.4 percent of each other. The exchanges during the unmanaged period were computed using only direct flow measurements. During the unmanaged period, the bulk of the water is exchanged during mid tide but the magnitude of the exchange depends on the high tide elevation.
24320376|The postures of immobile woodland salamanders (15 species of the genus Plethodon) were observed in the field throughout the southeastern United States. There were a few significant differences among species in the frequency of three generalized posture categories, but these differences are not interpretable in terms of morphological, phylogentic, or ecological differences between species. Linear configurations were most commonly observed. Small-bodied species coiled more than large-bodied species. The duration of immobility varied significantly among posture categories, but salamander length was only marginally different among categories. There probably are no specific immobility postures in Plethodon that serve solely antipredator functions. Individuals remain immobile in the position in which they are encountered.
24320150|Management of citrus blight, a condition resulting in declining fruit production, involves the rapid detection and removal of trees displaying early symptoms. Since the spectral quality of light reflected from affected trees is modified as the disease progresses, spectra from trees in different health states were analyzed using a least squares technique to determine if the health class could be assessed by computer. The spectrum from a given tree was compared, using an Apple computer, with a set of library spectra representing trees of different health classes. The computed solutions indicated a very close agreement with field observations. In addition, the computed results also indicated that many trees were heterogeneous, with portions of the crown being in different health classes. Although the degree of heterogeneity was not assessed in the field data, it was frequently observed in the diseased trees. These preliminary results indicate that solving aerial spectral reflectance data may permit accurate classification of objects even when dissimilar objects contribute to the spectrum.
24320204|Dental and postcranial remains of the primitive three-toed browsing horse Hypohippus chico, new species, are described from the Bone Valley phosphate mining district of central Florida. This is the first report of this genus from eastern North America. Hypohippus chico, the smallest known species of Hypohippus, is clearly referable to this genus based on several diagnostic dental characters. The Florida Hypohippus chico supports the presence of medial Miocene (i.e., pre-Hemphillian) units within the Bone Valley Formation.
24321223|Data from fixed-station sampling conducted during 19911997 were used to determine the timing of recruitment, the seasonal changes in abundance, and the growth and mortality rates ofage-0 spot (Leiostomus xanthurus) populations in the Indian River Lagoon (IRL) and Halifax River (HR) along the Atlantic coast of Florida. The magnitude of recruitment was greater in the HR system than in the IRL, particularly during the comparatively weak year-class of 1994. In the IRL, juvenile growth rates varied between years, with the instantaneous growth coefficient (G) ranging from 0.28 to 0.73. In the HR, however, growth varied little, with G ranging from 0.36 to 0.43. Estimates of mortality (Z) ranged from 0.02 to 0.08/d for the IRL and from 0.02 to 0.03/dfor the HR. For age-0 spot, recruitment, growth, and mortality varied greatly between years and systems and may be strongly constrained by the impact advective processes have on larval supply to the estuary and by the distance to the nursery habitats has on the distribution and survival of settling juveniles within the estuary.
24319674|The occurrence of yellow bullheads, Ictalurus natalis, in two caves is recorded. The bullheads are associated with another troglophilic fish, Hybopsis harperi, in both caves. Analysis of stomach contents of the bullheads indicates that mud, leaf detritus, pieces of limestone rock, and springtails (Collembola) are commonly ingested. One specimen had ingested a troglobitic crayfish, Procambarus lucifugus. The presence of juvenile bullheads in the caves suggests possible spawning in the subterranean system. Developmental abnormalities (lack of pelvic fins, lack of adipose fin, deformed caudal fin) were noted for several specimens, indicating that inbreeding in a small, isolated population may be occurring.
24321865|Fish communities in the Peace River were assessed biannually via electrofishing from fall 2007 through spring 2010. Habitat characteristics were quantified for each electrofishing transect to allow comparison with fish community data. We determined fish population characteristics, calculated habitat suitability indices and curves, and compared fish communities across river section, season, year, and with physicochemical parameters. Fish communities differed in each section of the river (i.e., lower, middle, upper) but did not differ across seasons or years. The strongest correlations of changes in community structure with physicochemical variables and habitat metrics occurred for measures of habitat complexity, followed by water velocity and conductivity. Species-specific habitat affinities were found to overlap substantially, but some differences were apparent and could explain broad-scale distributional differences in habitat use among the species. In conclusion, the sections used to delineate the river in this study, based primarily on differences in geology and hydrology along the course of the river, were comprised of different fish communities. The habitat affinities of fishes identified in this study should be useful to resource managers for modeling biotic responses to changes in river water levels and habitat availability.
24321792|Estuarine trophic transfer depends on many biological, chemical, and hydrodynamic factors, among which are size, biodiversity and ecology of the resident populations. In the Indian River Lagoon (IRL), Florida, USA, a biogeographically transitional area between temperate and tropical zones, we hypothesized that measuring the size fractions of planktonic chlorophyll as a proxy for microalgal biomass was insufficient to determine the trophic transfer potential and ecological preference of microalgal biodiversity. Over a period covering two rainy seasons and one dryer season, our goals were to: (1) clarify the alpha-diversity of dominant microalgae found in the plankton; (2) compare the relative contributions of size fractions as chlorophyll in rainy and dryer periods; (3) determine the efficacy of filtration for chlorophyll size fractions in separating morphologically and ecologically dissimilar microalgal species. Our chlorophyll results show substantial variability in time and space between the "rainy" and "dryer" annual cycle. The contribution of the <10m fraction of plankton chlorophyll is highly variable in the short term but not unusual when compared with other areas, even though historically the choice of screen mesh size to separate smaller sizes may be highly individualistic. Many of the dominant microalgae are not truly planktonic in an ecological sense, but include benthic, epiphytic, epizoic, and habitat indifferent species. Separating microalgae on the basis of size using mesh netting is misleading because of variability in microalgal morphology, variability of microalgal life cycles, and the complexity of interaction between microalgae and their grazers. Thus, the size fractionation of chlorophyll may have limited utility in understanding the ecology of the IRL system. We suggest that microhabitats, morphological variability, life cycle phenomena, and grazer interaction are important considerations in the use of size-fractionated chlorophyll in questions of trophic transfer.
24320114|The tremendous surge in population and development in the area has placed a severe strain on the System which is comprised of five contiguous areas1) Old Tampa Bay, 2) Hillsborough Bay, 3) Tampa Bay, 4) Boca Ciega Bay, and 5) Terra Ceia Bay. The System extends over some 346 square miles and includes 212 miles of shoreline. Coliform bacteria counts in Old Tampa Bay and Hillsborough Bay have been high enough to justify limiting contact sports and shellfishing. Water quality is affected by discharges from 55 sewage treatment plants, more than 90 industries and over 100 marinas. Primary productivity is among the highest in the world. A great diversity of marine life is present from both temperate and tropical regions. Projects in progress or proposed threaten every part of the System and a means for proper management must be established to avoid a degradation of its waters.
24319641|Circulation of the Fort Pierce Inlet and adjacent portions of the Indian River on Florida's Central East Coast was investigated during a 2 yr period. The currents were predominantly tidally driven, with wind effects becoming more important in the shallower areas of the Indian River and with increasing distance from the Inlet area. Variations in the salinity structure of the waters in the inlet area occur largely with the tidal stage.
24321547|In response to low lake levels in 2007, a habitat enhancement project was conducted on Lake Okeechobee to remove excess organic sediments and associated vegetation. These types of projects are commonly done in Florida lakes to benefit sport fish populations. However, little attention has been given to the impacts of these projects on reptiles and amphibians. As bulldozers scraped the lake bottom back to mineral soil, monitoring was done to identify the impacted herpetofauna. The most detected species was the greater siren (Siren lacertina), a large, benthic salamander that burrows into the organic sediments on the lake bottom and reduces metabolic activity (aestivates) to survive dry conditions.
24321883|A collaborative partnership of public agencies, private consultants, private developers, and the academic community is being successfully applied to monitoring the effectiveness of Best Management Practices (BMPs) used to treat stormwater in southwest Florida within the Charlotte Harbor National Estuary Program (CHNEP). The resulting publicly available data generated can be used to guide practical stormwater policy revisions by supplying region- and BMP-specific information to policy makers. The public-private-academic partnership provides a mechanism by which the strengths of each partner have combined into a common effort towards completing research projects efficiently, while generating quality data. This partnership has engaged in multiple BMP research projects, including a green roof study, a pervious/impervious pavement study, wet detention/aeration studies, a long term discharge study and a groundwater-surface water interaction study. The studies, some still ongoing, have produced notable results. Variations in stormwater volume and associated pollutant loading discharge are sensitive to site-specific conditions including amount of impervious area, depth to groundwater tables, rainfall distribution, and local geology. Additional monitoring is needed to better understand these relationships. Enhanced local information on BMP function and efficiency will facilitate the creation of treatment trains to best protect downstream receiving waters and meet the needs of natural systems.
24320959|We compared the densities of plant species in Lake Wales Ridge scrubby flatwoods communities between gaps and shrub-dominated (matrix) microsites across a chronosequence composed of sites differing in time since last fire. Gap areas were dynamic with over half of the landscape area in gaps and open sand following fire. However, the landscape quickly returned to a matrix-dominated state with prefire levels for gap size (mean: 12 m2), gap area (mean: 1218 %), and open sand (mean: 310 %) after three years postfire. Gap specialists, mainly herbs, comprised 28% of locally common and 84% of locally uncommon species. Variation in small ramet density was consistently correlated with time-since-fire for 11 of 18 common species. Microhabitat (gap or matrix) proved to be an important factor for four species, but gap size and percent litter in the gap did not generally affect ramet densities. Periodic fires or a fire mosaic are needed to create gaps, which may be especially critical for the regeneration and persistence of gap-dependent species in scrubby flatwoods communities. Time-since-fire is especially important for gap specialists in scrubby flatwoods in contrast to the weak coupling of gap availability with fire in the more open, xeric rosemary scrub.
24321869|Seasonal abundances of two large fishes, common snook Centropomus undecimalis and largemouth bass Micropterus salmoides, were surveyed in the lower portion of the Peace River, Florida, 20042010. During and just prior to the study period, a number of environmental disturbances occurred: the passage of five hurricanes over the river's basin in 2004 and 2005, resulting in high river flows and one large-scale hypoxic event, and extreme cold temperatures in 2010. The two species responded differently to these events. In the year following hurricane-induced hypoxia (20042005), adult largemouth bass were absent from our collections. Common snook, however, were up to three times more abundant than during subsequent years (20072010); increased river flow, abundance of prey, and lack of interspecific competition may have contributed to the high abundance. A record cold winter in 2010 initially reduced the abundance of common snook in the lower river, but abundance quickly returned to pre-event levels. Largemouth bass abundance appeared unaffected by the extreme cold event. These results illustrate how disturbance events can temporarily affect the community structure of aquatic systems and create challenges for managers striving to track long-term trends in species populations.
24321887|Charlotte Harbor, Florida, is a series of interconnected shallow estuaries surrounded by low-lying uplands and a population of approximately 780,000 people. Direct and indirect impacts of human development as well as an accelerating rate of sea level rise have had and will continue to have dramatic effects on the distribution of this system's coastal habitats. The long term sustainability of this estuarine system and surrounding human communities depends on understanding past and predicted future coastal scenarios, allowing effective adaptation, restoration and management decisions. To understand historical changes, we compared recent coastal habitat distribution information to that reported in an earlier study (Harris et al., 1983) using geospatial analysis. To understand likely future conditions, we applied the Sea Level Affecting Marshes Model (SLAMM) over a 100 year period using slower, moderate and faster sea level rise (SLR) scenarios of 0.7 m, 1.0 m and 2.0 m, respectively. Our analyses show that while some coastal wetland habitats increased over the sixty year period from 1945 to present, modeling results through 2100 predicted net losses of tidal flat, coastal forest and inland freshwater marsh under all three SLR scenarios. Mangrove swamp and saltmarsh decreased under the fastest rate of SLR modeled.
24321070|Weather and water temperature data from two study sites in the northern part of Florida Bay are used to describe freshwater gains and losses by precipitation and evaporation from December 1996 to March 1997. Weather data from a third study site in southern Florida Bay provide estimates of evaporative water losses from July to December 1998, and from February to July 1999. Average evaporation rates at Johnson Key and Butternut Key in northern Florida bay are 0.015 and 0.012 cm h-1, respectively. High-frequency fluctuations about the mean are irregular, and a consistent diurnal cycle is poorly defined. Day-to-day maximum evaporation rates are highly variable, with evaporative losses usually exceeding 0.02 cm h-1 and occasionally exceeding 0.06 cm h-1. At both Johnson Key and Butternut Key, freshwater gains during the winter dry season are substantially less than evaporative losses. Results from southern Florida Bay include an average evaporative loss of 0.024 cm h-1 during the first of two field studies, and 0.023 cm h-1 during the second. Again, high-frequency variability is prominent, and the diurnal cycle is poorly defined.
24321821|We investigated the behavioral response of Florida bog frog (Lithobates [Rana] okaloosae), bronze frog (L. clamitans), and southern leopard frog (L. sphenocephala) tadpoles to chemical cues from two predators, the banded water snake (Colubridae: Nerodia fasciata) and the red fin pickerel (Esocidae: Esox americanus). Bog and bronze frogs are close relatives that breed in permanentwater habitats. The leopard frog is a more distant relative to L. okaloosae and typically breeds in ephemeral habitats. Predation pressure differs between permanent and ephemeral habitats. Banded water snakes occur in the habitats of all tadpole species used in this study. Large pickerel, however, are common only in the deeper sections of the permanent streams inhabited by L. okaloosae and L. clamitans and typically are absent from the ephemeral breeding wetlands of L. sphenocephala. Bog frog tadpoles were the least active (i.e., less time swimming) ranid in all predator treatments. Despite the close relationship and similar habitats of bog and bronze frogs, L. clamitans was the most active species. L. sphenocephala tadpoles swam less in predator treatments than the control; a result that contrasts with previous research that suggested species that breed in ephemeral wetlands should respond less to predators.
24319858|The first United States collections of the Mayan cichlid (Cichlasoma urophthalmus), a native of Central America, were made in January 1983 in Everglades National Park, Florida. Subsequent surveys have shown that its distribution is limited to two areas in the Taylor Slough drainage basin. Several dozen specimens, both juveniles and adults, ranging from 54.0 mm to 191.0 mm S.L., were collected and observed from 1983 to 1985. The larger population inhabits an estuarine creek system where spawning was observed in 1984 and 1985 at salinities of 26  and 10 , respectively. A smaller population occurs in a strictly freshwater habitat subject to seasonally-fluctuating water levels. Establishment of the Mayan cichlid is indicated by observations of spawning activity, the wide range of specimen lengths, and its persistence for three years in park waters. The potential for range expansion is enhanced by its exceptional tolerance of changes in salinity and water levels and its ability to colonize varied habitats. These data suggest that the Mayan cichlid may become a permanent member of Florida's ichthyofauna. The source of the introduction remains unknown.
24321923|Florida LAKEWATCH is a successful example of a long-term volunteer water quality-monitoring program that started in 1986. Working with thousands of volunteers, these dedicated citizen scientists have collected reliable long-term water quality data for over 1100 lakes, 175 coastal sites, 120 rivers, and 5 springs. These data encompass water resources in 57 Florida counties. This manuscript describes the start and evolution of LAKEWATCH, including discussions of the following two major (of the many) hurdles to the continued success of the program: 1) demonstrating to professional groups that trained volunteers are capable of collecting credible (research and regulatory quality) data, and 2) maintaining consistent long-term funding. Funding is especially critical because trained and committed core staff is needed to work along with volunteers. Quality staff members are also important to provide direction, ensuring consistent data are collected and enough sites are monitored to answer statewide questions such as how geology impacts water chemistry in Florida. Examples are also provided on how LAKEWATCH data have been used to address lake management issues (i.e., "fixing" the problem) in the State of Florida. We hope the Florida LAKEWATCH experience assists other groups who have a vast army of citizen scientists waiting to get involved and then to best develop a successful monitoring program.
24320516|Two 28-day experiments were conducted with White Leghorn hens to determine whether the effect of Crotalaria spectabilis (Roth) was at least partially due to reduced feed intake and to examine nutrient fortification as a means of managing low-level contamination problems. Pair-fed birds performed comparably to those receiving their respective levels of seed addition. Increased dietary nutrient density was associated with significantly improved egg production at each level of seed addition. Daily feed intake was also improved for 368 and 736 mg/kg seed treatments. The mortality rate was not affected in either study. A substantial portion of crotalaria's effect appeared related to reduced feed intake, and nutrient fortification may be helpful in the management of such contamination problems.
24321927|The debate over teaching evolution in Florida's schools has been active since the 1920s. Historically, the struggle to retain science-based curricula has relied on individual efforts. In 2005 a volunteer group of Floridians formed Florida Citizens for Science to promote and publicly champion sound science education in the state's schools. The members worked to ensure proponents of evolution instruction were represented on Florida's science standards committee in 2007, and have been active and prominent with ongoing public education and outreach efforts.
24321128|Pollinator visitation may affect fecundity and gene flow, and itself is affected by myriad habitat features. We examined the relative effects of flower density, fruiting plant density, and fire history on pollinator visitation rate to patches of Hypericum cumulicola, a rare, self-compatible Florida scrub endemic. We also measured seed set across a range of pollinator visitation rates. Small native solitary bees of the genus Dialictus (Hymenoptera: Halictidae) made 99% (348/ 350) of all observed visits. Visiting Dialictus were supported atop the anthers by stiff filaments as they harvested the abundant pollen, but were too small to make frequent contact with the stigmas during foraging. Dialictus bees were observed contacting stigmas most often when first arriving at flowers, likely increasing the chances of outcrossing. While short visits (< 10 s) occurred all morning, duration of the longest visits decreased as the morning progressed, probably reflecting depleted pollen supplies. Visitation rate (visits per plant per minute) increased with flower density (In flowers per m2) indicating that visitation rate to H. cumulicola is positively density-dependent. Fire history, fruiting plant density, and flower height did not directly affect visitation rate. Populations that had higher visitation rates had higher average seed set. Since flowering density decreases with time since last fire, long unburned patches of H. cumulicola suffer lower fecundity, and are likely more susceptible to inbreeding depression due to the compound effects of few potential mates and low pollinator visitation rates.
24320177|A floodplain forest in north Florida produced more flower and fruit biomass in annual litter fall than did a pine plantation or a cypress dome during the same year. This suggests that, although all three ecosystems were common in the north Florida landscape, floodplain forests were the most important to frugivorous wildlife. In all three ecosystems, fruit availability was greatest in spring and fall.
24319628|Distribution of the isopod Sphaeroma terebrans in Florida was recorded by measuring its relative density at 51 stations located around the State. The species was found continuously on the west coast from Tarpon Springs to Flamingo, and on the east coast, intermittently from New Smyrna Beach to Jupiter and continuously from Jupiter to Card Sound. The organism was absent from the Florida Keys. Sphaeroma was usually found in the prop roots of Rhizophora mangle but was also observed in branches and roots of Laguncularia racemosa, Avicennia nitida and at one location in Conocarpus erectus where exposed to water.
24319862|The distribution and status of the 84 species of birds from the Cay Sal Bank islands (8 recorded for the first time) and 42 from the Ragged Islands (13 recorded for the first time) are discussed. The 137 new locality records for these 2 groups of Bahama Islands are based largely on unpublished materials from the Paul Bartsch Expedition of 1930. The 24 species that probably breed (or bred formerly) on the Cal Sal Bank include 10 seabirds and 9 land birds; 11 seabirds and 13 land birds are among the 31 that probably breed in the Raggeds. The resident birds in both areas are species generally widespread in the Bahaman-Antillean region.
24319585|In a series of experiments, the scallop's shell closure responses to visual stimulation were studied. Recordings were made of the animal's responses to repeated offsets of illumination. The findings indicated that the responses declined in amplitude over a series of offsets. The decline in responding increased as the length of the interval between offsets decreased. It was found that the decline in responding could not be attributed to either an effector or receptor mechanism. It was therefore concluded that the decline was due to a central process. The investigation also revealed that the amplitude of the response to the first offset was found to depend upon both the duration and the intensity of the light.
24321843|Little is known about turtle-mediated seed dispersal (chelonochory) in riparian ecosystems. During a mark-recapture study of turtles in the Santa Fe River in northern Florida, we opportunistically collected 79 Common Persimmon (Diospyros virginiana) seeds defecated by wild-caught Snapping Turtles (Chelydra serpentina), Suwannee Alligator Snapping Turtles (Macrochelys suwanniensis), and Yellow-bellied Sliders (Trachemys scripta). Thirty-five of the seeds germinated when planted under semi-natural conditions. The proportion of seeds that germinated was not significantly different among the samples from each of the three turtle species. We suggest that terrestrial placement of seeds probably occurs when a turtle defecates in an inundated floodplain and seeds sink but later germinate in situ after the flooded river recedes to the main channel. This requires synchronization of D. virginiana fruiting and river flooding, which only occurred twice in the Santa Fe River during the past ten years. Thus, turtles likely play a minor role as dispersers of D. virginiana seeds in the Santa Fe River ecosystem.
24320401|The increase in the number of environmental regulations have created a new awareness in the validity of laboratory data. What was once thought of as being only the responsibility of the laboratory has now been reevaluated. The five aspects of environmental data, comparability, representativeness, precision, accuracy, and completeness, should now be considered the joint responsibility of the laboratory and consultant.
24319781|I discuss the results of a 5-mo study that is concerned with work-related activities and attitudes of nonsupervisory white collar workers in a bureaucratic setting. Problems and advantages of the ethnographic method of study are addressed. Job functions are related to attitudes towards supervisory personnel, job attitudes, and job tasks. Suggestions are made as to input by the nonsupervisory staff.
24319587|The occurrence and frequency of Azotobacter spp. present on leaf surfaces of central Florida citrus trees bearing sooty mold fungi and in soil in which the trees grew were determined. Azotobacter chroococcum, Azotobacter beijerinkii and an unidentified Azotobacter sp. which produces a large mucoid colony were evenly dispersed in the canopy. The dispersion of the mucoid colony producing Azotobacter sp. in the soil was uneven and was not in the control soil devoid of citrus trees. This study indicates that nitrogen-fixing Azotobacter spp. may be regularly associated with the sooty mold colony on citrus leaves in Central Florida.
24319468|The first known colonies of the oriental snail Melanoides tuberculata were collected in South Florida in 1971. The snails were found in both fresh and brackish canal waters. Melanoides is also known to be an intermediate host of a human parasite Philohthalmus sp. Both the snail and the parasite are prevalent in the Orient and have been reported in San Antonio, Texas. The potential for human infestation does exist in Florida with the presence of the intermediate host but is probably unlikely.
24320980|Drift fence arrays were used to survey the herpetofauna of sandhill, sand pine (Pinus clausa) plantation, mesic flatwoods, coastal and inland hydric hammocks, basin swamp, dome swamp, basin marsh, depression marsh, and tidal marsh habitats in the Spring Creek (SC) and Tide Swamp (TS) units of the Big Bend Wildlife Management Area in Taylor County, Florida. We also surveyed xeric hammock in SC and scrub in TS. Sampling was conducted with 27 arrays in SC for 153 days in 1992 and with 20 arrays in TS for 218 days in 1993. We captured 1,916 amphibians of 25 species and 414 reptiles of 35 species in SC and 632 amphibians of 16 species and 350 reptiles of 29 species in TS. The proportion of aquatic, semiaquatic, terrestrial, arboreal, and fossorial species in comparable habitats in SC and TS typically differed because aquatic/semiaquatic species were proportionally more dominant in SC than in TS habitats. Capture rates were higher in SC than in TS because of more captures of aquatic/semiaquatic herpetofauna, especially in wetland habitats, which was probably related to greater precipitation and longer hydroperiods during the survey of SC. Weekly capture rates of amphibians were correlated with amount of precipitation in SC terrestrial and wetland habitats and in TS terrestrial habitats. Nine new species were documented for Taylor County. In wetland habitats sampled by silt-fence arrays, single arrays captured an average of only 54.3% (SC) and 68.1% (TS) of the total number of species documented in a given habitat type using multiple arrays. In terrestrial habitats sampled by metal-valley arrays, single arrays in SC and TS captured an average of 65.6% and 67.5%, respectively, of the total number of species documented in a habitat type using multiple arrays. During the first month of trapping, drift fence arrays captured an average of 59.4% (SC) and 31.1% (TS) of the total number of species that were eventually captured in a habitat type. Xeric hammock was the most productive terrestrial habitat and dome swamp the most productive wetland habitat in terms of herpetofaunal abundance and species richness. Herpetofaunal diversity of sand pine plantations was similar to that of altered sandhill habitat.
24321206|This annotated bibliography represents a revised effort to compile the available material dealing, either primarily or peripherally, with the sand pine scrub community in Florida. The literature survey utilized a computer search of four data bases, a hand search of local libraries, references contained in pertinent articles, unpublished studies and research projects, and resource information from private, state, and federal agencies. References concerning taxonomic botany and faunal associates are for the most part not included. The Scrub ecosystem is one of the oldest plant communities in Florida and is rapidly becoming fragmented and isolated due to encroachment of urban areas. As much as 95% or more of this upland plant community has been lost in Palm Beach County alone due to development over the past 20 years. Other areas such as the Lakes Wales Ridge in central Florida, once thought of as a wilderness island, have seen most of the natural scrub being replaced by large scale citrus groves, with estimates of loss ranging from 8090% of the original scrub. About 40% of the scrub ecosystems in Brevard County are contained within federal government ownership, but recent mapping studies indicate that about 75% or more of this plant community has been eliminated over the past 40 years. Estimates suggest that by the year 2000, as much as 80% of the scrub in southern Florida may have been lost or impacted due to urban sprawl. A growing concern for the disappearance of this relic community has resulted in the Federal listing of many scrub endemics, as well as a rapid increase in land acquisition for nature preserves around the state. This rapid demise has led to a three-fold increase in the amount of research and study of this unique plant community. This bibliography represents an updated effort to include research on plants, animals, and insects endemic to the scrub pine community. Included is the most recent research on management and preservation of the scrub ecosystem.
24319955|Rays were collected in the central section of the Indian River lagoon, primarily during the summer and fall months of 1982-1986. We took data on 369 individuals of seven species: Dasyatis americana, Dasyatis sabina, Dasyatis sayi, Gymnura micrura, Rhinoptera bonasus, Aetobatus narinari, and Mobula hypostoma. Of those species regularly collected, Dasyatis sayi was most abundant, D. americana least abundant. Both sexes of all species were captured, but the sex ratio of G. micrura was strongly skewed in favor of females. Size-frequency data suggest that both immature and mature individuals of D. sayi, D. americana, and A. narinari reside in the lagoon. No sawfish (Pristis pectinata) were captured, adding further evidence to the suggestion that this species has been extirpated from the lagoon system. Mobula hypostoma is reported for the first time from the Indian River lagoon system. The species captured and their relative abundance confirm the importance of ocean inlets to the distribution of fishes in the Indian River lagoon system.
24320708|This paper summarizes the rationale for consolidating data for the Cockroach Bay Aquatic Preserve study area and describes the procedural usage for the Consensus Croup methodology developed by the State of Florida's Growth Management Data Network Coordinating Council. Examples of draft and final Issue Statements are provided as well as examples of how this voluntary process has worked for this project. The use of Data Descriptive Summaries proved to be particularly effective in targeting data for acquisition. Although this is an ongoing project, to date over a million dollars worth of data already produced by public expenditure for other purposes has been transferred. The developmem of data is usually the most expensive phase and the sharing of data represents a compounding of the value of each public dollar spent while reducing the likelihood of needless duplication of data development.
24319397|Runoff water quality from urban land use forms was determined in residential areas of Miami, Florida. Runoff from parking areas contained extremely high levels of bacteria and macronutrients. Pollutional input from rainwater was also monitored and correlated with a general air pollution index. An urban canal system was investigated chemically and ecologically to determine the water quality impact of the stormwater discharge. In most cases the water quality of the canal system was degraded due to stormwater inputs. High levels of all contaminants occurred during periods of high rainfall intensity. In addition an indicator algal index showed the canal section receiving the stormwater discharges to have higher numbers of pollution tolerant algal genera.
24320245|Shells of adult Gopherus polyphemus and Gopherus berlandieri were examined to determine the frequency and distribution of bone anomalies. A broad spectrum of anomalies was present in both species; supernumerary bones in the neural region of the carapace occurred with regularity and had opposite correlations with average size in males and females.
24321596|A suburban south Florida population of the Giant Ameiva (Ameiva ameiva) was monitored during October 2006September 2008. Historically the studied population comprised only one subspecies, A. a. petersi, however, animals of our study site now comprise an intergradation with A. a. ameiva, as well as the two forms. Daily observations provided estimations of seasonal and diel activity patterns of this widely foraging and heliothermic lizard. Individuals were active throughout the year. Males were the most commonly observed segment of the population and most often observed in May and October. This population exhibited a bimodal diel activity pattern of 9001300 and 1500 hrs. Daily activity was longest during mid-summer and was curtailed in the coolest months. This species adheres to the continuous activity observed elsewhere in its geographic range and the bimodal pattern to its activity that typifies other populations of the Giant Ameiva and many other neotropical and temperate teiid lizards. Activity patterns of the Giant Ameiva increase the likelihood of interacting with the two other exotic and single native microteiid with which it could be a competitor or predator. The predictability associated with its activity patterns should be useful when formulating management plans that require estimates of relative abundance.
24320749|This study of borehole logs summarizes some preliminary interpretations of the geologic evolution of the Broward County (Florida) area in terms of the paleo-environmental conditions under which Neogene (later Tertiary, Miocene and Pliocene) and Pleistocene sedimentary deposits formed. The coastal geological framework of Broward County consists predominantly of thick marine shallow-water sequences alternating with thin fresh- and brackish-water deposits. The lithologic components of dominant stratigraphic sections mostly contain carbonate rocks, but clastic deposits are more important in older sequences and in eastern Broward along coastal sectors. This lithologic relationship probably reflects local paleo-environmental evolutionary trends that changed from: (a) offshore marine deposits (silts, clays and mixtures) during the early Miocene, to (b) nearshore carbonates and inner shelf sands during the late Miocene and Pliocene, to (c) subaerial and submerged coastal deposits during the Pleistocene. Changes in environmental conditions and associated sedimentary deposits were conditioned by variations in shoreline position and water depth.
24319521|Ovigerous females with viable eggs which hatched occurred in South Relief Canal, Indian River County, but the population may have been eliminated by the January 1977 cold period.
24319385|Over the past 20 yr, the University of Florida Solar Laboratory has contributed to knowledge now utilized in solar energy applications. The Laboratories now are investigating many principles established in the past in light of state-of-the-art materials and techniques. Research areas include: space heating and cooling with solar energy, refrigeration, solar distillation, solar to electric power conversion and solar cookingto name a few. Work already done is reviewed as well as an overview of present research endeavors and future activities such as the United Nations project for establishing world-wide energy centers.
24321546|This study characterizes the species composition, structure, and seasonal habitat usage of fishes on Atlantic-side beaches in the middle and lower Florida Keys. Fishes and selected environmental variables were monitored at six fixed stations from July 1994 to July 1997 where 47,243 fishes (120 taxa) were collected in 130 beach-seine hauls. The species composition varied seasonally. Correspondence analysis separated the assemblage into three distinct species groups that were significantly correlated to temperature and wind; 1) summer-recruiting species (i.e. lutjanids, haemulonids, and gerreids), 2) winter-recruiting species (i.e. Albula spp., Menticirrhus spp., Mugil spp. and Umbrina coroides) and 3) nearshore pelagics (i.e. engraulids and clupeids) that were present in all months except during the warmest-water periods. Shifts in species composition were driven by seasonal recruitment of early-stage juveniles.
24320399|Reports of sightings of the eastern chipmunk in Florida were solicited from the public and used to locate areas where chipmunks occur. Field observations and collected specimens were used to outline the chipmunk's known distribution, which now includes portions of five northwestern Florida counties (Escambia, Santa Rosa, Okaloosa, Walton, and Holmes) and the watersheds of the Escambia, Blackwater, Yellow, and Choctawhatchee rivers. The species may have been present here since the Pleistocene, but the historical range in Florida is not known. Chipmunks in Florida are associated with hardwood or mixed hardwood-pine (Pinus spp.) forests, but they appear to be unevenly distributed within their range. Because the size of the population in Florida is unknown and the range is small, the chipmunk's current legal status as a Species of Special Concern should be retained.
24321595|A small specimen of the nine-rayed Luidia senegalensis found in Tampa Bay has five long rays and four short rays, one of which is in each of four contiguous interradii. Based on number and length of rays, L. senegalensis shows pentaradial symmetry at metamorphosis, bilateral symmetry in small individuals and nonaradial symmetry in large individuals.
24321132|We made this study with the objective of establishing parameters which could be used to determine minimum Suwannee River flows at which significant damage would occur to the environment. Significant damage is defined as that level of degradation of the environment beyond which the system will not be able to return to its former healthy state. We inventoried plant species distribution in the marsh, determined some characteristics of the soils, and measured water salinity. We found many more species of plants in the marshes of the Suwannee delta than is common in tidal marshes distant from fresh water. Some of these plants are highly salt tolerant such as Distichlis spicata (L.) Greene (saltgrass) and Juncus roemerianus Scheele (needlerush). Some have less salt tolerance i.e. Sagittaria lancifolia L. (arrowhead) and Scirpus americanus Pers. (three-square). The soils are high organic mineral soils or organic soils (> 30% organic matter), anoxic, and contain high amounts of sulfur. Soil salinity, measured by electrical conductivity (EC) is higher near the Gulf and decreases as one goes upriver. There is little significant correlation between soil EC and the distribution of most plants. Although saltgrass and needlerush are very common in the areas of highest EC, the generally low salinity levels permit the growth of a variety of plants. Another phenomenon resulting in erratic distribution of plants is wrack, plant debris deposited by storms over existing vegetation, resulting in the death of the original plants and the invasion or expansion by opportunistic species. Low rainfall and low river flow in June, 2000 resulted in an increase in soil water EC of l7% to l42% and damage to several plant species in the Delta.
24321000|Movements and reproduction were studied in a population of eastern narrowmouth toads, Gastrophryne carolinensis, in south-central Florida. Nearly all adult movements occurred in association with the presence of gravid females (MaySeptember) which closely overlapped the nocturnal calling season (MayOctober). Seasonal movements related to reproduction occurred when monthly volume of rainfall was at least 10.8 cm and mean thermal minima and maxima were 16.2 C and 34.4 C, respectively, in 1994. Nightly values of rainfall and temperature associated with movements corroborated the seasonal restrictions within which reproductive activity in G. carolinensis occurred. Breeding season records from other locations exhibit an abrupt latitudinal shift to a highly restricted breeding season in the northernmost populations, which correlated with thermal thresholds observed in this study. Therefore, for G. carolinensis, climatic constraints dictate its breeding season and ultimately determine the northern limit of its geographic range.
24319760|The incidence of adult-onset diabetes has increased dramatically since the 1950s among the Florida Seminole Indians. Four months were spent at the Brighton Reservation identifying economic, social and cultural factors which may: 1) influence dietary behavior and the incidence of obesity and diabetes, and 2) account for the inability of health care personnel to induce dietary modification and weight loss. Suggestions are made as to how changes in dietary behavior and weight loss might be achieved.
24319847|The mountain mullet (Agonostomus monticola) is a rare component of the Florida ichthyofauna. Until recently, records for the southern half of the peninsula were nearly nonexistent. We document and summarize the range, size distribution, and habitat occurrence of the mountain mullet in southern Florida. Florida populations are characterized by low numbers of small individuals that are probably recruited from the West Indies via surface ocean currents. Its rarity in southern Florida seems due to the absence of suitable freshwater stream habitats. Mountain mullet persistently occur in southern Florida in an artifically maintained stream with access to salt water. We collected 5 mountain mullet from this population, including the largest documented United States specimen. We also observed additional adult-sized mullet there. Based on current understanding of the life history of A. monticola, we discuss the possibility that Parrot Jungle may hold the first breeding population for the United States.
24320226|In a sample of registered voters, we found strong support for a religious explanation of creation and for teaching those views in schools. Creationists tend to be of lower social status and have less exposure to science information and education.
24321042|During recent surveys between March and August 2002, we found established populations of the Madagascar giant day gecko (Phelsuma madagascariensis grandis) in the Florida Keys, Monroe County. We recorded 29 individuals on Little Torch Key and three individuals on Grassy Key. Additional records were obtained from Grassy Key, Big Pine Key, and Plantation Key. Both genders and all size classes were recorded on each island illustrating that this species is presently established as an element of Florida's introduced herpetofauna. Population monitoring, documentation of ecological impacts on Florida's native flora and fauna, and/or eradication efforts should be conducted.
24322135|This paper describes a methodology for estimating pesticide hazards in surface water by Water Body ID (WBID). Southwest Florida was selected as the area of interest. The methodology considers agriculture (citrus and row crops), mosquito management, lawn maintenance, and golf course maintenance. For each pesticide, physical chemical properties are used to predict transport and fate in surface water and this is combined with acute toxicity data on fish, aquatic invertebrates, insects, and birds. This together with the quantity of each pesticide used by WBID helps to estimate the relative pesticide hazards for each WBID. Row crops contribute the greatest hazard with tomatoes and bell peppers leading the list followed by citrus, lawn maintenance, mosquito management and finally golf course maintenance. The most hazardous pesticides were: the fumigants methyl bromide and chloropicrin followed by oxadiazon (lawn herbicide), copper hydroxide (agricultural fungicide), permethrin (lawn insecticide), bromacil (lawn herbicide), mancozeb (lawn fungicide), atrazine (lawn herbicide), diuron (agricultural herbicide), chlorothalonil (agricultural and lawn fungicide), and glyphosate (agricultural herbicide). The methodology predicted that the most affected WBIDs lie in the agricultural areas of Collier and Hendry Counties.
24319646|Bird remains from prehistoric sites may offer both significant archaeological information on the ecological conditions, types of habitats exploited, and settlement patterning at the time of human occupation, and zoological data regarding the past distribution of certain species of avifauna. The analysis of such remains from 2 South Florida middens, Fort Center in Glades County, and Boca Weir in Palm Beach County, provides evidence for possible year-round habitation at the former site and a winter settlement at the latter site. Furthermore, the recovery of a great auk, razor-billed auk, and great black-backed gull, may indicate a period of cooler climate in Florida at approximately A.D. 1000.
24321552|During a yearlong ichthyoplankton survey conducted in the Florida Current, a single ocean sunfish, Mola mola, was found from the 284 samples and 1,454 identified specimens. This sunfish larva is one of only 17 on record from the Gulf of Mexico and northwest Atlantic.
24320086|The Florida spiny lobster fishery is faced with declining catch rates resulting from increasing fishing pressure by commercial and recreational fishermen. Conflicts between users have developed and economic returns, at least to the commercial fishery, are not optimal. Management action is suggested. Phase 1 of a management program should allocate the resource in an effective manner between recreational and commercial interests, adopt uniform interstate regulations to protect the resource, and augment the collection of fishery statistics for both recreational and commercial harvests. Phase 2 of the program should establish a management scheme to obtain the optimum sustainable yield.
24321181|The Kennedy Space Center (KSC) is one of the largest areas of public land in eastern Florida. Here, we report the results of a 25-year assessment of the herpetofauna of the KSC, with specific emphasis on long-term changes in populations. Exclusive of marine turtles, we found 69 species of amphibians and reptiles. With one exception, all species found during earlier surveys in the 1970s were still present 25 years later and an additional 14 species were identified. There were no significant changes in the total number of snakes found on a road survey route, but there were significant changes in the relative species composition among snake species, especially for cottonmouths and Florida green water snakes. In addition, diamondback terrapin populations declined markedly, and introduced diseases and habitat alterations may be a threat to other species.
24321404|The fish assemblage in the Everglades Nutrient Removal Project (ENRP), a 1,544 ha constructed freshwater wetland built for Everglades restoration, is compared to the freshwater fish assemblages of other Florida wetlands. The ENRP supported 28 fish species in 16 families; five of these species were exotics. Average total density (76.9 fishes m-2) and biomass (1.4 g dry weight m-2) of fishes in the ENRP were elevated relative to nearby oligotrophic marshes. Numerically dominant fishes were small-bodied species belonging to the families Cyprinodontidae, Fundulidae and Poeciliidae. Largebodied species were most abundant in deep-water canals, whereas small-bodied fishes were most abundant in densely vegetated habitats. The ENRP fish assemblage was most similar to the adjacent Water Conservation Area 1 (Jaccard similarity coefficient = 0.700). Community similarity of the ENRP with the other Florida wetlands was inversely proportional to their distance from the ENRP. Null model analyses suggested that the pattern of species co-occurrence among wetlands was random and not structured by competition or other factors. Species richness was highly correlated with family richness and both varied as power functions of wetland surface area. The ENRP provided quality aquatic habitat and the diversity of its fish assemblage was comparable to fish assemblages of other Florida wetlands.
24319446|An Air Force program on the Eglin Air Force Base Reservation, Florida, of testing spray equipment designed to apply herbicides and other biologically active materials by aerial means, has given rise to the possibility that the testing program might affect the biota outside the test area. Observations made as part of the present project show that changes have been induced in the vascular flora, but that they are not extensive in terms of distance from the test area, duration, or magnitude. No species can be demonstrated to be reduced in numbers near the test area, although certain weedy species can be shown to increase in numbers near the area following the temporary defoliation of the forest canopy.
24319786|The utilization of power by crewleaders in the control, manipulation, and exploitation of agricultural laborers was observed for 14 mo in 6 south Florida counties. The more successful crewleaders employed a multi-dimensional power base with only a partial reliance upon the use of coercive power to achieve their goals. This finding is in contrast to most previous studies which stressed coercive power as the primary, and sometimes exclusive, element in the power base foundation of crewleaders.
24321013|Conservation institutions worldwide such as the Royal Botanical Gardens at Kew (U.K.) have frequently used in vitro propagation (micropropagation) as a valuable tool to support the conservation of some threatened and endangered species. Although many of the endemic species of Florida's scrub ecosystem are extremely rare, they have not been widely researched using tissue culture techniques. In this paper, the amenability of Conradina etonia, an endangered scrub mint species, to in vitro growth and propagation was investigated using shoot tips. Callus formed and grew rapidly in the presence of both cytokinins and auxins. Rhizogenesis from callus occurred in both the presence and absence of growth regulators. Induction of axillary shoots from the main explant stem occurred on media containing 3.0 mg/ L 6-[,-dimethylallylamino]purine + 0.3 mg/L indole-3-acetic acid. When excised and placed on fresh media, these shoots produced three to four adventitious shoots each. Subculturing the adventitious shoots onto media devoid of growth regulators resulted in stem elongation, leaf production, and occasionally root formation. The results suggest that micropropagation may be an option for the propagation of this species.
24321427|The analysis of serum chemistries is becoming a vital diagnostic tool for assessing the health of free-ranging birds of prey. The serum chemistries of 21 free-ranging swallow-tailed kites, Elanoides forficatus, nestlings were measured in 1995 and 2003 in several regions of Florida, Georgia and South Carolina. One hematological value (PCV) and twenty-four serum values were measured to establish normal baseline parameters for the kites. Microbial health assessment applications in wildlife monitoring are in the infancy stage. Microbial organisms were identified from cloacal and choanal swabs. Escherichia coli (88%), Enterobacter cloacae and Klebsiella pneumoniae (44%) and Proteus mirabilis (43%) were the predominant microbial organisms.
24320327|References to the toxic dinoflagellate, Gonyaulax monilata Howell, in the Indian and Banana rivers are compiled from published and unpublished sources. The inability of researchers to find motile cells for extended periods indicates that benthic resting cysts or hypnozygotes may be the only source for the seed population.
24320294|An adult male gray fox was radio-instrumented at Archbold Biological Station, Highlands County, on 24 December 1980, and its movements and activity were monitored intermittently until its death from canine parvovirus on 20 February 1981. Maximum home range was 2.69 km2; maximum range length was 2.64 km. The fox was most active in early morning and late afternoon-evening, and least active during the middle of the day. Natural habitats were preferred to man-modified areas.
24322138|A stressor response model in the form of a habitat suitability index was created for blue crab to quantify impacts of alternative management actions and to assist managers in policy decisions. The model simulates system response by examining impact of freshwater input into southwest Florida estuaries and is being used to help bring together research and monitoring components within southwest Florida ecosystems as part of the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan. The model uses both a larval-component index and spawning female component index and has been incorporated into a geographic information system to portray responses spatially and temporally to facilitate policy decisions. This habitat suitability stressor response model can be applied at other locations using information from the literature, expert knowledge and available local field data and can be easily modified or refined as additional data becomes available. This study examines four hydrological scenarios: a target flow, 2000 base, and 2050 with and without Comprehensive Everglades Restoration, on the habitat suitability of the estuary for blue crabs. The model indicates that preferred flow frequency distribution and the future conditions with Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan have higher habitat suitability values than existing or future without Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan conditions.
24321139|Over 30 million tons of phosphogypsum (PG) are produced annually in Florida as a by-product of the production of phosphoric acid and derivatives. A previous study examined the environmental impacts of creating borrow pits to obtain fill for road building versus using phosphogypsum as a source of road fill. This study describes a survey that was conducted of approximately 50 qualified persons to identify as many issues and concerns as possible relative to this possible application.
24321218|Sphaeroma terebrans Bate is a widespread estuarine, wood-boring isopod found in red mangrove (Rhizophora mangle) forests of tropical and subtropical estuarine waters. Because it causes extensive damage to man-made structures in marine coastal zones and is resistant to common methods of wood preservation, it is important to understand fully how S. terebrans uses the wood into which it bores. Previous studies indicate that S. terebrans is primarily a filter-feeder and does not utilize bored wood as a nutritive substrate. However, laboratory feeding data obtained in this study indicate that juvenile S. terebrans specimens can survive on a diet of pure cellulose significantly longer than individuals given no food. In addition, enzyme assays show that digestive caeca homogenates from S. terebrans have active cellulose-digesting enzymes. Furthermore, SEM and TEM studies of this organism indicate that cellulose-like material is present in the hindgut of these organisms. These data taken collectively indicate that S. terebrans has the ability to use the wood as a food source.
24321149|Although many aspects concerning the nutrient requirements of insectivores are poorly understood, it is important to ascertain the nutrient composition of a wide range of invertebrate prey species so that more informed decisions can be made with respect to the feeding regimes used to maintain insectivores in captivity. In addition, this information is essential for a more comprehensive understanding of the diet composition and optimal foraging decisions of insectivores under natural conditions. In this study I report on the nutrient composition (water content, ash, crude fat, total nitrogen, minerals and trace elements, and fat-soluble vitamins) of 16 species of arachnids comprising 4 orders and 20 species of insects comprising 9 orders. Water content ranged from 5871%. Crude fat content (as % dry matter, DM) ranged from 1172%, with typically higher values observed for larval stages of insects as compared to adults. Total nitrogen, neutral detergent fiber, and ash ranged from 310% DM, 1019%, and 29%, respectively. The insects and arachnids sampled in this study met the dietary requirements of insectivores with respect to minerals and trace elements including Mg, P, Ca, Cu, Fe, Mn and Zn. Concentrations of vitamins E and A were quite variable among the taxa. In spiders, vitamin E content ranged from 43.2201.2 IU/kg; vitamin A levels ranged from 144.5426.3 IU/kg. Scorpions and whipscorpions had significantly lower levels of vitamin E. In insects, vitamin E levels ranged from 17.7512.5 IU/kg; vitamin A levels ranged from 11.4803.2 IU/kg. The values recorded for these fat-soluble vitamins fell below the daily requirements that are known for some insectivores.
24321138|Adults of the subtropical cockroach Eurycotis fioridana emit a defensive chemical spray from their abdomens consisting primarily of (E)-2-hexenaI. Nymphs are similar in size to the adults, but lack the chemical defense. The ability of the defensive spray to repel predators has received relatively little study. We conducted feeding trials with two species of mice, Peromyscus gossypinus and P. polionotus, that are abundant in the natural habitats that support Eurycotis in central Florida, and potentially important predators on Eurycotis. We offered Eurycotis nymphs and adults to captive mice and recorded compared handling times among trials. Both species of mice were adept at handling nymphs but were visibly distressed when exposed to (E)-2-hexenal. Peromyscus polionotus proved largely unable to handle adult Eurycotis because of the inability of this mouse to deal with the chemical defense. In contrast, P. gossypinus dealt well with adult Eurycotis by thrusting the roach's abdomen into the substrate and feeding from the head end to avoid exposure to the chemical defense. We conclude that the chemical defense of Eurycotis is an effective deterrent to small mammal predators, but that at least some individuals of P. gossypinus adopt a behavior to neutralize that defense.
24319973|Legal issues relating to groundwater contamination in Florida are rapidly changing. The regulators responsible for protecting groundwater are increasingly more aggressive as scientific technique reveals the heretofore unknown scope of contamination caused by hazardous waste, hazardous substances, petroleum products, and pesticides. The states including Florida and private individuals recently have asserted common law remedies such as negligence, nuisance, trespass, and indemnification to remedy groundwater contamination. Florida law is undergoing rapid metamorphosis and existing statutory and common law theories are being reevaluated. Congress and the Florida Legislature should reexamine the legal issues and prepare new more meaningful remedies to groundwater contamination in Florida.
24321228|Typically total lead has been taken as a measure of the toxicity of lead in a sample, whereas a direct measurement of toxicity would seem to be a more meaningful measure. This study summarizes analysis of lead using a Microtox 500 toxicity analyzer. The instrument examines the effect of samples on the luminescent bacterium Vibrio fischeri. We compared the effect of standard solutions of aqueous lead nitrate with soil samples containing known amounts of lead nitrate. The LD50 for soluble lead was about 2 ppm. There was no notable difference between a control sample (lead-free soil) and high-organic soil containing about 1000 ppm lead. The LD50 for both samples was about 50,000 ppm. The latter value is likely a function of the nature of the soil type and the organic content, but it does demonstrate that high-organic soil is capable of absorbing soluble lead. It also demonstrates the need for a specific measurement of toxicity as a guide to bioavailability and bioaccumulation.
24321021|A critical component of ecosystem restoration is the ability to evaluate restoration success. Fishes have been identified as useful indicators of biotic integrity in flowing ecosystems, because they integrate watershed conditions at relevant spatial and temporal scales. In this paper we evaluated the usefulness of characteristics of individual fish (allometric relationships and growth rates) as potential metrics for use in the analysis of ecosystem enhancement and/or restoration projects. We evaluated the effects of ecosystem enhancement on two components of individual fitness of largemouth bass, bluegill and redear sunfish (family Centrarchidae): (1) growth exponent bthe slope of log-linear relationship of wet mass on standard length and (2) growth rates within two control pools and one enhanced pool of the channelized Kissimmee River ecosystem, central Florida, USA. Persistence of low dissolved oxygen in the enhanced pool and broad performance curves of the three species produced limited levels of response. Nonetheless, our analyses indicate allometric W-SL relationships and growth rates of fishes, two quick and inexpensive measures, potentially integrate ecosystem enhancement effects, and therefore warrant further research as metrics for evaluation of ecosystem enhancement and restoration.
24319516|Stratigraphic placement of the Tamiami FormationHawthorn Formation contact has been arbitrary in subsurface investigations in southwest Florida. This contact is properly positioned beneath a dark colored carbonate mud unit, which contains large concentrations of detrital phosphorite, quartz sand, and various clay minerals. The mud unit, known informally as the Fort Myers clay member of the Tamiami Formation, covers the Hawthorn Formation in nearly all of southwest Florida. The formational contact is distinctive in western Lee and Charlotte Counties, where it is a stratigraphic disconformity, and becomes less distinctive to the south and east, where deposition has been continuous and no break in the stratigraphic record is evident.
24320595|Commercial tomato producers were surveyed throughout the state of Florida to determine the degree to which they have adopted production practices which minimize undesirable environmental impacts. The survey focused on water, pest, and nutrient management practices. Environmentally sound production practices and changes in production practices that have occurred over the past decade are described. We examine the relationships between scale of production (size of production unit) and adoption of recommended practices and examine the degree to which scale serves as a predictor of adoption. The debate over the degree to which farmers are moving toward more environmentally sound systems of agricultural production is an important one. The debate is particularly important in Florida. Much of our agriculture is large scale and input intensive. Further, many major production areas, particularly for vegetable crops, occupy regions of the state with particularly sensitive natural ecosystems. The on-going controversy over natural resource use in the Everglades Agricultural Area provides a good example. Special care must be taken by growers in the EAA to prevent deterioration of the natural Everglades ecosystem. Excessive concentrations of nutrients or pesticides in the water system, for example, are issues of major concern.
24320622|Rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) were translocated to Key Lois in 1973 and to Raccoon Key in 1976. All animals captured on the two islands are routinely screened for whipworm eggs. We reviewed the results of 2,216 fecal samples analyzed using Sheather's sugar flotation technique and noted the presence or absence of ova and the sex of the monkey from whom the sample was taken. Ova were found more than twice as often in samples from Key Lois than from Raccoon Key. We also found a sex difference; the infection rate was 36% (N=399) for males and 29% (N=323) for females. These results may be due in part to differences in population density and microhabitat between the two islands.
24321475|The freshwater sponge Trochospongilla leidii was collected from a logging channel adjoining the St. Johns River in Volusia County, Florida. Determination of the species was supported by scanning electron micrographs of diagnostic traits of the gemmule, a minute mass of cells encapsulated by a layer of siliceous spicules (gemmoscleres) and acting as the asexually reproductive body in the Spongillidae.
24320784|Three species of the the cladoceran genus Simocephalus from Florida were reared on a nonliving nutritive medium, and their per capita rates of increase, r, were determined. The per capita rates found (0.668 in S. exspinosus, 0.651 in S. serrulatus, and 0.622 in S. vetulus) are similar to those recorded for cladocerans in general or Simocephalus species in particular reared on a diet of algae, suggesting that this nutritive medium is adequate for culturing cladocerans.
24321721|Beavers from Florida and Georgia were examined for ectoparasitic mites of the genus Schizocarpus (Acari: Chirodiscidae). Seven of 17 Schizocarpus species known previously from the North American beavers were recorded: S. alascensis Fain et Whitaker, 1988, S. posticus Fain et Whitaker, 1988, and S. spinifer Fain, Whitaker et Smith, 1984 from Georgia; S. inversus Fain, Whitaker et Jones, 1984, S. paramingaudi Fain et Whitaker, 1988, and S. reductus Fain et Whitaker, 1988 from Florida. Only one species, S. mingaudi Trouessart, 1896 was recorded from beavers in both states. The male hysterosoma of S. spinifer is described and figured for the first time.
24320324|The Indian River system extends from Ponce de Leon Inlet to St. Lucie Inlet and drains an increasingly populated watershed. The Future of the Indian River system Steering Committee was formed in April 1981 by representatives of 4 Florida scientific institutions to promote the wise utilization and optimum productivity of the Indian River system. This system is a significant economic, scientific, educational, recreational, and aesthetic resource. The FIRST Steering Committee will form a permanent organization to act as a clearing house for information on the Indian River system and to sponsor annual symposia. Symposia will alternate between research needs, and potential solutions will be discussed and referred to decision makers. The Indian River System Information Symposium is the first of the research meetings.
24321438|New locality records are presented for two species of insects and two species of millipedes collected in the Florida Keys, Monroe County: Diachlorus ferrugatus, Empicoris subparallelus, Anadenobolus monilicornis, and Trigoniulus corallinus. St. Andrew's stainer, Dysdercus andreae (Hemiptera: Pyrrhocoridae), was observed feeding on a dead tropical house gecko.
24320184|In a study on the Archbold Biological Station in southcentral Florida, body weight and carapace and plastron measurements of 37 gopher tortoises were strongly correlated (r = 0.77 to 0.88) with widths of their burrows at three depths (20, 50, 70 cm). There were no significant differences (P>0.05) between r values in any of the comparisons. Correlation coefficients between carapace length and burrow width in this and two previous studies in northern Florida were not significantly different, providing further evidence that tortoise size estimates based on burrow width are comparable across habitats and geographic locations.
24321723|Closure of the Suwannee Strait is a recognized vicariance event influencing the genetic divergence of populations of freshwater fauna on either side of the Atlantic/Gulf drainage divide. The macrophyte Hymenocallis coronaria also exhibits this divergence pattern, and a molecular clock analysis dates the divergence of populations to 8.6 million years ago (95% confidence interval 9.3 to 7.9 MYA), a divergence date consistent with the closure of the Suwannee Strait. This divergence pattern, along with other local scale genetic patterns, suggests a potential role of ichthyochory in the dispersal and migration of H. coronaria. We also discuss preliminary results from limited controlled ichthyochory experiments involving Ictalurus punctatus.
24320056|Hydrilla verticillata and the water in which it grew were analyzed from a lake and a ditch over 12 mo. Hydrilla from the ditch, compared to that from the lake had more Ca (2.6), Fe (3), Na (1.8), similar amounts of P, Mg, Cr, and less Zn (.8), K (.66), Cu (.07), Mn (.25). Ditch compared to lake water had more Ca (5), Fe (9), Na (3), P (10), Mg (4), Zn (4), Cu (1.6), and similar amounts of Cr, K, Mn.
24321226|We used Geographic Information Systems (GIS) as an assessment tool to predict the amount and distribution of available habitat for the Neotoma floridana smalli (Key Largo woodrat) and the Peromyscus gossypinus allapaticola (Key Largo cotton mouse) on North Key Largo, Florida. Three times as many cotton mice were live trapped in the hammock than were woodrats. None of the habitat variables used in the analyses; hardwood hammock age class, fragment size, runway density and presence of exotic vegetation, were significantly associated with Key Largo woodrat abundance estimates. Key Largo cotton mouse abundance was highest in medium-old hammocks, smaller fragments, hammocks with high runway densities and in hammocks where the exotic vegetation was absent. A stepwise multiple regression analysis revealed that hammock age class and fragment size explained most of the variation in cotton mice abundance. ArcView's Spatial Analyst GIS was used to analyze the stepwise multiple regression equations of the four habitat variables. The output was a map of the habitat which predicted areas of high (greater than 30) and low (less than 30) cotton mice abundance.
24321044|Studies were conducted to assess the spatial learning ability of the shrews, Sorex palustris and Blarina carolinensis. Spatial navigation was assessed in S. palustris using the Morris apparatus whereby subjects were required to locate a visible or invisible escape platform in a tank containing water made opaque by the addition of a non-toxic white dye. Adult males learned to locate a platform that they could not see, hear, or smell provided it remained in a fixed spatial location relative to distal room cues. Learning resulted in a significant decrease in the amount of time required to locate the platform (escape latency), as well as a reduction in the distance taken to locate it (path length), over a 20-trial test period lasting 5 days. Learning occurred rapidly except for a test group in which the platform was below the water surface and whose position was randomly changed from trial to trial. Transfer tests revealed that a spatial location search strategy was utilized by those animals for whom the platform was invisible but in a fixed location. Spatial learning ability was evaluated in B. carolinensis using a complex maze. The number of blind alley errors decreased significantly over a 10-day training period, from a mean of 72.4  13.8 SD on day 1, to 2.5  0.2 errors on day 10. Similarly, the time required to traverse the maze decreased significantly from 483.2  47.9 sec on day 1 to 109.4  11.9 sec on day 10. This represents the first demonstration of spatial learning ability in these soricids. The data are discussed in relation to spatial learning studies conducted on the Norway rat, and the adaptive significance of spatial learning to foraging animals is addressed.
24320618|The effects of fog on predawn water potential of two scrub oak individuals (Quercus chapmanii Sarg., Q. myrtifolia Willd.) were studied on the Lake Wales Ridge of central Florida during two winter dry seasons. Daily changes in water potential were correlated with rain, fog indices, and moisture sensor weights. Rainfall during the two dry seasons was slightly below normal, and rainfall events elevated predawn water potential on the following morning, but not thereafter. On days without rain, the presence of fog significantly increased predawn water potentials in both species, without affecting soil moisture. The effect of a foggy morning was similar to that of an average rain. Predawn water potentials on the second and later days subsequent to fog were unaffected by fog. The day to day pattern of water potential gain and the lack of fog effects on soil moisture suggest that plants may obtain fog water through foliar uptake. The small net difference between water potential increases on mornings with heavy fog and decreases on fogless mornings (mean differences about 0.1 MPa) suggests that the ecological effects of individual fog events are minor. However, the accumulation of drought stress relief during weeks of fog could be important, especially during extreme droughts, if low predawn water potentials lead to midday stonmtal closure.
24320477|An exotic crane (Grus antigone) was observed in Pasco County foraging with native sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis pratensis). This is the first record of this presumably escaped exotic bird in central Florida.
24320687|The compatibility between monoecious pollen donors and dioecious egg donors was evaluated in an international hydrilla [Hydrilla verticillata (L.F.) Royle] germplasm collection. Seed were produced in 46 of the 48 crosses between four dioecious pistillate plants and pollen donors from twelve monoecious plants. Viable progeny resulted from 30 of the crosses. Seed numbers varied from 4076 in the cross between the dioecious egg donor from Jaipur, India and the monoecious pollen donor from Pangalengan, Java to none in two of the crosses. Seed germination varied from 0% to 55%. There was considerable variability in the fitness of the progeny. The results of this study confirm the observations of an earlier study: that pollen from monoecious donors is viable and capable of interaction with dioecious egg donors to produce viable progeny.
24321670|Fibropapillomatosis (FP) is a tumor disease that is reported in the hard shelled sea turtle species. The frequency of FP, however, is much higher in green turtles (Chelonia mydas) than in any other species. The distribution of this mysterious disease is worldwide, but the etiology is still not understood. We captured 310, 256 and 82 juvenile green turtles by large mesh tangle nets in the Indian River Lagoon (Lagoon), the nearshore reef (Ocean) and the Trident submarine Basin (Port) on the East coast of Florida in 1998 and 1999. FP prevalence at the Lagoon, Ocean and Port study sites were 61.6, 14.8 and 0% respectively. All tumors were examined and measured, and we assigned overall severity of FP (tumor score 03) to all turtles that were captured in the three study sites, based on size, number and location of external FP tumors. The range of tumor size is from less than 1 cm to more than 10 cm in length. The number of tumors varies from 1 to as many as 70 among individuals in the Lagoon. Twenty-two of 25 recaptured turtles showed regression of FP tumors by comparison and examination of initial and recapture photographs. The explanation of different FP prevalence in two physically similar sites, the Port and the Ocean, is unknown. One difference between the Port and the Ocean sites is that the Ocean is located closer to the inlets that connect the open ocean to the Indian River Lagoon, where FP prevalence is consistently higher.
24320621|The Key tree-cactus, Cereus robinii (Lemaire) L. Benson, known from Cuba and the Florida Keys, is classified as endangered. Populations of the cactus on Upper Matecumbe, Long, and Big Pine Keys, Florida, were subjected to mosquito insecticide (naled) spraying that reached environmental concentrations of up to 0.017 g per cm2. Observations of pollinators, sticky trapping, bagging buds to exclude pollinators, germination of seed, and sampling of naled residues were performed on the Big Pine Key population. Blooms, observed year-round, were sparse and opened for one night, and had a garlic-like odor suggestive of bat pollination. No pollinators were observed, and bagged and non-bagged (open pollinated) blooms in naled-sprayed hammocks set fruit and produced viable seed. Vegetative propagation of windthrows and limb buds of the tree-cactus and one natural seedling were observed. C. pentagonus (Linnaeus) Haworth and C. gracilis var. simpsonii (Small) L. Benson from the same area also produced seed in bagged and non-bagged treatments.
24319774|Studies initiated by the Victim Assistance for Older Adults Program (VAP) confirm findings of federally-conducted surveys taken in major metropolitan areas that elderly persons (aged 55 + ) are more fearful of crime than any other age-group, although they are victimized least in proportion to population size. The VAP provides short-term crisis intervention, support and referral services, victim advocacy, and crime prevention information to all elderly victims of Part I crimes in Hillsborough County, Florida. The program, which began in January 1978, has aided more than 2,500 victims to-date. Still to be investigated are VAP findings that suggest anxiety accompanies fear, especially among victims who have been made aware of preventive measures that could have been taken to avoid the crime and its consequences.
24321093|We report on the eradication of a reproducing population of nonindigenous convict cichlids, Cichlasoma nigrofasciatum (Cichlidae), from a closed basin on the University of Florida (UF) campus in Gainesville, Alachua County, Florida, in December 2001. The population had persisted for three or more years despite cold winter air temperatures owing to the thermal refuge afforded by a constant influx of warm water from UF cooling systems. A brief shutdown of the water flow allowed the use of rotenone to renovate the pond. Over 1000 convict cichlids were removed and data were collected from representative specimens. Relations of standard length, weight, and body depth to total length were estimated. Plant material dominated the stomach contents in frequency of occurrence, followed by unidentified organic material and amphipods. However, fish and plant material made up the greatest volume of stomach contents. Although it was winter, three of 14 females examined had apparently ripe eggs and there were nests and brood pits within the pond. Two other nonindigenous fish species were foundtwo black pacus, Colossoma macropomum (Characidae), and an oscar, Astronotus ocellatus (Cichlidae). Also collected were native yellow bullhead, Ameiurus natalis (Ictaluridae), eastern mosquitofish, Gambusia holbrooki (Poeciliidae), and sailfin molly, Poecilia latipinna (Poeciliidae).
24320998|Kemp's ridley is one of the world's most endangered vertebrates. The primary nesting site of the species is Rancho Nuevo, Tamaulipas, Mexico; secondary nesting beaches are located near Rancho Nuevo. Isolated nesting has occurred at various other locations within the Gulf of Mexico, and more recently on the eastern coast of the United States. We report the first confirmed nesting of a Kemp's ridley on the eastern coast of Florida (two nests in Volusia Co.) and an additional nesting on Florida's west coast (Lee Co.). Genetic analysis showed that hatchlings from one of the Volusia Co. nests were pure L. kempi and not hybrids. Including the nests reported here, five L. kempi nests, involving three individual turtles, have been confirmed on Florida's beaches thus far. There is no evidence that these individuals were part of the Kemp's ridley headstart program, although that possibility cannot be excluded.
24321411|Parasitoids are important biological control agents for environmentally friendly insect management programs. However, few parasitoids have been examined on the genomic level, with most sequences being used only as indicator genetic markers. We propose that as more Ribosomal Protein, RP, sequences become available in the public database, their use in studies of molecular phylogenetics and diagnostics will proportionately increase. Putative cytoplasmic RP gene sequences were therefore selected as a subset from a cDNA library of 7,762 mRNA sequences, constructed from adults of the aphid parasitoid, Lysiphlebus testaceipes (Cresson). Over 100 novel RP cDNAs from L. testaceipes were cloned, sequenced, and identified. All sequences were deposited in the GenBank database under the consecutive accession numbers EH009595-EH017357, with the RP sequences under AY961484-AY961584 and DQ062217-DQ062237. Isoforms and allelic forms of some proteins are represented.
24319875|The skipper Synapte malitiosa is reported for the first time from the Antillean island of Hispaniola. The subspecific status of the Hispaniolan population remains uncertain. Data are presented on collecting sites, temperature, and times of days of collections, as well as behavior of the skippers.
24321072|Schistocerca ceratiola Hubbell and Walker, the rosemary grasshopper, was collected from a Ceratiola ericoides Michx plant community on a sand ridge in Levy County, northern Florida where its presence has been suspected for many years. The grasshopper's behavior and distribution on the unique ridges of the Florida peninsula are discussed.
24321252|Infection with upper respiratory tract disease (URTD) has been linked to population declines of tortoises. Here we test whether gopher tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus) at Archbold Biological Station (ABS), a long-protected area in south-centraI Florida, have been exposed to, or are currently infected with Mycoplasma agassizii, a causal agent of URTD. We examined all gopher tortoises encountered for clinical signs of URTD. In addition, we collected blood (n = 11) and nasal samples (n = 10) from tortoises found throughout ABS. We used PCR-based tests of nasal samples to determine if gopher tortoises are currently infected with M. agassizii and ELISAs for blood samples to test if exposure to this mycoplasmid has taken place. No tortoise at ABS showed any clinical signs of URTD. Furthermore, all blood samples were seronegative, indicating that no tortoise had developed a detectable immune response to M. agassizii. All nasal lavages were also negative for the presence of M. agassizii. Thus, gopher tortoises at ABS have not been exposed to this mycoplasmid. Comparisons of characteristics between populations with varying levels of URTD prevalence, including sites such as ABS without any cases of infection, will help decipher the role that this disease plays in population declines of gopher tortoises.
24320338|Effects of water depth, water temperature, light intensity, epiphyte coverage, detrital accumulation and sediment resuspension and shifting on seagrass ecology in the Indian River Lagoon system were studied from April 1977 through June 1979. Seagrass beds containing Halophila engelmannii, Halodule wrightii and Syringodium filiforme located between Cocoa and Grant, Florida, were chosen as sampling sites. Increases in vegetative growth for all 3 seagrasses occurred in spring and to a lesser extent in fall months. Water temperatures ranged between 22 and 30C. Decreased detrital accumulation, sediment resuspension and shifting, and water depth, increased light transmission and intensities at the seagrass blade level, and reduced epiphytic coverage (less than 300 mg epiphytes/gm blade) were observed during spring. Overall epiphyte levels (expressed as seasonal averages) were 850, 615 and 210 mg epiphytes/gm blade for Syringodium, Halodule and Halophila, respectively. Net photosynthetic rates were highest during spring and fall, 1185, 1090 and 670 g C fixed/mg Chl-hr. Periods of decreased vegetative growth (in summer and winter months) were accompanied by increased blade necrosis, rhizome and/or blade detachment, more dense epiphyte coverage (in excess of 100 mg epiphytes/gm blade) and reduced photosynthetic rates. Decreased light intensities at blade level, sub-optimal temperatures (< 20C in winter and > 30C in summer), and extensive sediment shifting and detrital accumulation were observed at these times.
24321253|Surveillance for gastrointestinal parasites among Mayan Indians was conducted in San Antonio Palopo, Santa Catarina Palopo, Santa Cruz Laguna and Jaibalito, four villages around Lake Atitlan, Guatemala. In January and June 2001, 234 patients with gastrointestinal symptoms of abdominal pain were identified and their stools examined for parasites. Feces were collected from patients and zinc sulfate flotation was performed on each specimen. Both helminth and protozoan parasites were detected in varying rates from people in the different villages. Ascaris lumbricoides was the most frequent helminth infection detected followed by Trichuris trichiura and Hymenolepis nana. Entamoeba histolytica/dispar was the most common protozoan infection followed by Giardia duodenalis. Results demonstrated that parasite transmission is largely in children and the prevalence rate of infection is related to the time of year. This identification of the prevalence of parasites in different villages in relation to the current risk factors is suggestive of the type of preventative measures necessary to reduce parasitic infection rates.
24322343|Juvenile reptile activity and behavioral patterns are scant in the literature, especially in long-lived species including turtles and tortoises. To better understand activity patterns, we used automated camera units to record daily activities of hatchling and juvenile gopher tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus). This species concentrates activity around self-excavated burrows, and by placing cameras at burrow entrances we were able to gather activity data on both tortoises and other species using tortoise burrows. Hatchling tortoises spent more than twice as much time outside burrows as juveniles, but on average juveniles emerged from burrows slightly more often than hatchlings. Neither group emerged from burrows daily, and most emergences were during the morning. We also documented the first data on gopher tortoises emerging from burrows at night, when they appear to drink during heavy rainstorms. Mammals and reptiles were the major commensal species. Young tortoises emerge from burrows on a regular basis and spend considerable time outside burrows, although their habitat preferences when out foraging, as well as their small size, may contribute to the paucity of observations on immature gopher tortoises.
24319944|Flooding and desiccation probably caused mortality of eggs of the American Crocodile (Crocodylus acutus) in Everglades National Park. Flooding was subterranean with no sign evident above ground. Apparent desiccation occurred in a year (1981) of abnormally low rainfall. The timing of nesting seems to be rigidly scheduled, with the developmental period bracketed by possibly desiccating and flooding conditions. The success of this strategy is shown by the relatively low rate of embryonic mortality in most years.
24320414|This study examined the coastal response of central Brevard County to rising Holocene sea level as it has been recorded in sediments of Indian River lagoon. The typical Holocene sediment sequence, in ascending order, consists of: (1) depauperate marsh muds, (2) sandy muds and muddy sands that contain a restricted marine fauna, and (3) sands and muddy sands that contain an abundant, more normal marine fauna. This transgressive sequence developed as rising Holocene sea level flooded a Pleistocene topographic depression (paleolagoon). It is often capped by (4) a coarser sand that exhibits a decrease in faunal abundance and diversity. The origin of this sediment type remains problematic. "Muck", a fine-grained, organic-rich sediment, occurs in bathymetric depressions of the lagoon and was not identified at any other stratigraphic position. This observation supports the hypothesis that "muck" is an anthropogenic sediment type. Stratigraphie cross-sections along the axis of the lagoon reveal a concomitant increase in mud and decrease in sand from south to north. This sediment gradient is logically related to the morphology of the present barrier island system. In the northern area, the relatively broad width of the barrier island and its well-developed ridge-and-swale topography may have limited the flux of quartz sand into the lagoon during major storms and hurricanes.
24319407|Small's Acacia, Acacia smallii Isely, is a bushy tree known from northeastern Mexico eastward along the Gulf Coast to Louisiana. It was discovered at Pensacola, Escambia County, Florida, in 1901 and 1903, but has since not been confirmed to exist in Florida. Several populations along the edge of Pensacola Bay were recently discovered to be well established. A key is provided to Florida species of Acacia.
24320997|We radio-tracked one northern yellow bat (Lasiurus intermedius), three Seminole bats (L. seminolus), three evening bats (Nycticeius humeralis), and one eastern pipistrelle (Pipistrellus subflavus) to locate and characterize their tree roosts. The northern yellow bat roosted in Spanish moss (Tillandsia usneoides) in live oaks (Quercus virginiana), located in a oak-hammock community. The Seminole bats roosted in slash pines (Pinus elliottii), loblolly pines (P. taeda), live oaks, and pond pine (P. serotina). Thirty-two of these 34 roost trees were in pine-dominated communities. Evening bats roosted in slash pines, loblolly pines, and live oaks. Thirteen of 14 roost trees were located in loblolly-slash pine communities. The eastern pipistrelle roosted in a community dominated by live oaks. Each eastern pipistrelle roost was located in Spanish moss in understory trees on exposed high-marsh hammocks. Our results support previous studies documenting the tree roosting habits of the northern yellow bat, evening bat, and eastern pipistrelle. We could find no records documenting strong roosting associations of Seminole bats with pines. Our findings suggest that during the period of parturition and lactation, Seminole bats commonly roost in pines.
24319541|The Black Creek Crayfish (Procambarus pictus (Hobbs) ), is endemic to cool, steep-gradient, tannic-stained creeks in the Black Creek drainage in northeast Florida. It appears to be extremely susceptible to human interference, particularly alteration of headwater areas and pollution. Currently, this crayfish is doing well but with additional pressure from urbanization, particularly with its proximity to the Jacksonville metropolitan area, the species might quickly be brought to the brink of extinction. Because of this, we are recommending Procambarus pictus for the Special Concern category, as outlined in the Florida Audubon Society's Inventory of Rare and Endangered Biota of Florida.
24320512|The turtle community of Rainbow Run, Marion Co., Florida was studied using mark and recapture methods. Population size and structure were determined for Sternotherus minor and Sternotherus odoratus, and turtle community structure was compared to results from a study conducted in the 1940s. Profound changes in the turtle community of Rainbow Run have occurred over the last 50 years. Emydid turtles of the genus Pseudemys predominated in the turtle fauna in the 1940's, the genus Sternotherus predominates today.
24319768|An innovation was diffused to a regional human service system using the community college as a vehicle. The roles performed by the anthropologist in the project are described.
24319932|A method has been developed to remove coral tissue from coral skeleton using high pressure gas. When used with a scuba tank fitted with a single stage pressure regulator and a molecular sieve trap, tissue can be removed from corals at remote sampling sites thus avoiding the transport of bulky carbonate skeleton.
24320483|Pondcypress (Taxodium distichum var ascendens) swamps were studied to assess the impacts of fire on cypress regeneration. Transects were established in 1990 in swamps that were burned by wildfires in 1985, in swamps that were burned by prescribed fires in 1987, and in swamps with no recent fire history. Although basal sprout reproduction by cypress was common in the burned swamps, no seedlings were found. This suggests that other factors, such as hydroperiod, are important in regeneration of cypress swamps.
24320021|A Florida mouse was observed collecting and transporting a fruit of the flag pawpaw (Asimina incarna). This is the first record of pawpaw in the diet of this species.
24320161|Lake Wauberg, Florida, has a long history of blue-green algal dominance throughout the year, with annual mean Secchi depths of 0.5 m. Growth of periphytic algal species on submersed glass slides was negligible in winter under the usual bloom conditions. In February, 1981, the phytoplankton population drastically decreased in biomass. Secchi depth rose to 3.0 m, and periphytic algal standing crops on glass slides dramatically increased. As the phytoplankton populations recovered, periphytic algal standing crop decreased. A succession of green algae in February, green algae and cryptomonad in March, and blue-green algae by April, 1982, was observed as the phytoplankton recovered pre-collapse densities. The periphyton succession was dominated by green algae in March, green algae and diatoms in April-May, and by blue-green algae in June and July. Phytoplankton diversity decreased during the recovery period, and was negatively correlated with total biovolume. Periphyton diversity increased as the phytoplankton recovered and periphyton biovolume decreased to annual mean levels.
24322275|New county and locality records of biting midges (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) and frogbiting midges (Diptera: Corethrellidae) are reported from the Florida Keys (Monroe County). Atrichopogon geminus Boesel, Forcipomyia (Euprojoannisia) blantoni Soria and Bystrak, F. (Lepidohelea) eadsi Wirth and Spinelli, Dasyhelea oppressa Thomsen, Culicoides travisi Vargas, and Corethrella wirthi Stone, are all new records for Monroe County, Florida. New locality records within Monroe County are provided for Forcipomyia (Blantonia) caribbea Wirth and Dow, F. (Euprojoannisia) calcarata (Coquillett), F. (Microhelea) eriophora Williston, F. (M.) fuliginosa (Meigen), F. (Synthridomyia) floridensis Dow and Wirth, Dasyhelea grisea (Coquillett), D. mutabilis (Coquillett), D. pseudoincisurata Waugh and Wirth, and Brachypogon (B.) fuscivenosus (Lutz).
24321269|We examined foraging selectivity of big brown bats (Eptesicus fuscus) in a maternity colony located in Clarke County, Georgia. We tested to see if diet differed among four stages of reproduction: pre-parturition, parturition, early lactation, and late lactation. We determined available prey using insect light traps and the diet of the colony by examining fecal pellets. The remains of insects from four of the nine insect orders captured were encountered during fecal analysis: Coleoptera, Lepidoptera, Hymenoptera, and Diptera. The relative availability of three insect orders differed among the four stages of reproduction. The proportion of Coleoptera consumed also differed among the four stages of reproduction. Despite differences in the relative abundance of the three insect orders and the proportion of one insect order consumed during the four stages of reproduction, general foraging patterns of the bats in the colony remained unchanged from pre-parturition to late lactation; the bats consumed more coleopterans and fewer lepidopterans, dipterans, and hymenopterans than expected based on the relative abundance of these orders throughout all stages of reproduction. Thus, the diet of bats may be affected by the differing energetic demands of each reproductive stage. These differences, while statistically significant, may not reflect general foraging preferences.
24319463|Four new records from Florida and two from Georgia confirm an expanded range for Clemmys guttata.
24320587|Cactophilic yeast were sampled from decaying stems and fruit of two Opuntia species at four locations in Florida. Species composition of the community differed between stems and fruits with very few species occurring in both habitats, although fruits and stems were interspersed. Stem communities were more homogeneous than fruit communities. The yeast communitites from stems of different species of cacti were dominated by different species of yeast. Analysis of the pH of decaying tissue supported the hypothesis that the number of yeast species per stem increased through time. There were several significant pair-wise associations (both positive and negative) in the distributions of the most common cactophilic species. Some negative associations could be explained as the outcome of the ability of some of yeast to kill yeasts with which they were negatively associated.
24320315|Recent fish collections made along the coast of east-central Florida have produced 98 species previously unrecorded in this region of Florida. Twelve families have also been added to the regional check-list.
24321879|Biological fouling is the accumulation and growth of aquatic organisms on submerged surfaces. Fouling can reduce the operation time and quality of data from aquatic real-time sensors. The SCCF Marine Laboratory currently has seven 'River, Estuary and Coastal Observation Network' (RECON) real-time sensor arrays deployed in the waters throughout southwest Florida. This study's goal was to compare eight commercially available anti-fouling coatings at three RECON stations (Redfish Pass, Gulf of Mexico and Shell Point). At all locations, PVC frames holding six plates (each 10.2cm2) with various treatments were deployed. At the RECON sites, plates were deployed for four months and sampled monthly using digital photography. Plate images were analyzed using image analysis software Coral Point Count, for percent cover of organisms such as biofilm and barnacles. Four copper-based coating types were the most effective at preventing fouling, particularly by damaging barnacles and amphipod tubes, especially at high fouling locations. Using the correct coating type at a given RECON site is essential in preventing fouling while also minimizing down-time for redeployment.
24322459|Anthropogenic activities have altered streams and rivers throughout Florida. Silvicultural practices, deadhead logging, road and bridge maintenance, de-snagging for navigation and flood control, and the clearing of riparian buffers for development have all impacted Florida's streams and rivers through the loss of ecologically important woody material from stream banks and channels. Repercussions from these impacts include changes to sedimentation patterns and stream morphology, erosion of banks and bars, and the consequent loss of habitat structure and diversity. The loss of large woody material (LWM) presents far-reaching impacts on the hydrology, ecology, and water quality of southeastern coastal plain streams, however federal and state law regulating the removal and/or reintroduction of LWM remains murky. Current decision-making does not adequately account for LWM's importance to Florida streams, and in many cases, the law appears to treat the removal of LWM more favorably than it does its reintroduction. We conclude that use of Best Management Practices associated with current statutory exemptions and categorical permits, as well as stakeholder education, offers the greatest promise of reducing the adverse impacts historic loss of LWM has had on coastal plain streams in Florida. Specific challenges include working with regionally appropriate techniques, balancing safety and accessibility with natural processes, and allowing for uncertainties.
24321788|We determined the amount of peat that has been lost during the ensuing century, to evaluate the impact of drainage for agricultural development and urbanization on the Everglades. To do this, we used spatially referenced peat surface data created for a Natural System Regional Simulation Model (NSRSM) and recent information gathered within the Everglades Protection Area (EPA) and the Everglades Agricultural Area (EAA) for the South Florida Topography Project. These two surfaces were spatially projected using a Geographic Information System to calculate peat loss and the resultant carbon emissions. The EPA is divided into Water Conservation Areas (WCAs) and Everglades National Park (ENP). We estimated a decrease in the elevation of the peat surface for the EPA over a period of about 130 years. The peat surface elevation decreased from 0.01 m (0.1 ft) to 1.7 m (5.5 ft) which resulted in carbon dioxide emissions from peat loss on the order of 0.02 to 0.41 g m-2 hr-1 (0.2 to 3.5 kilograms m-2 yr-1). The decrease in elevation of the peat surface and carbon dioxide emissions from the Water Conservation Areas fell between these values. If restoration of these regions is successful, the region has the potential of becoming a significant sink for carbon.
24319769|Anthropology at the community college has continually been viewed with skepticism by anthropologists at senior institutions. A primary reason for this is the minimal anthropological background of anthropology instructors at the community college level. A survey of the anthropology instructors in Florida's community colleges substantiated this. Consequently, a definite need exists for adequate preparation of these instructors.
24320533|Data comparing Departments of Chemistry at six Florida universities (number of faculty, postdoctoral appointments, degrees granted at the masters and doctoral levels) were gathered. These were compared with faculty productivity, including total number of publications for a two-year period (January 1, 1985 through December 31, 1986), mean number of publications per faculty member, percentage of those faculty who did not publish during that period, and the maximum number of publications for one faculty member in the department.
24321385|The effect of Calamintha ashei's allelopathy on the distribution of other Florida scrub species was evaluated in the field, in both intact and degraded scrub. Experimental treatments (aboveground biomass removal and application of activated carbon) were used to remove the potential source of allelochemicals and neutralize any remaining in the soil. It was expected that these treatments would result in an increase in species diversity due to the emergence of seedlings in the absence of C. ashei (as germination would have been suppressed in the presence of the allelopathic chemicals). There was higher herb/graminoid density and richness as well as higher overall species richness in the absence of C. ashei. The plant communities of intact and degraded scrub sites differed significantly in their species compositions. Overall species diversity and lichen diversity were significantly higher in intact scrub than degraded scrub. Removal of C. ashei did not increase seedling emergence of other species in either type of scrub. Therefore, a field and/or laboratory study involving the direct application of leachate and manipulation of water and other resources may be useful to determine whether Calamintha ashei is affecting other species via competition for resources or via the production of allelopathic chemicals.
24319960|Strip transects were monitored from April 1977 to February 1982 to census birds in habitats associated with north Florida flatwoods before and after harvest (clearcutting) of slash pine (Pinus elliottii). Four habitats were designated: pine, harvested pine, cypress (Taxodium distichum), and edge (areas within 10 m of the interface of 2 other habitat types). Bird densities generally were greater in edge and cypress habitats than in pine or in harvested habitats during spring, summer, and fall seasons. Flocking winter visitors used cypress, harvested, and edge habitats at greater densities than they used pine habitats. Densities of species resident year-round were low in harvested pine. The avian community in edge habitats was dominated by the same species that were common in the other 3 habitats. Seasonal fluctuations were evident in edge, cypress, and harvested habitats with greatest densities occurring in December and January. Densities in pine showed no appreciable changes with time of year. Impacts of clearcutting on flatwoods avifauna may be partially mitigated by retaining cypress habitats when pines are harvested.
24321556|Mechanical treatments such as roller-chopping, mowing, chain-sawing, and logging, and herbicide application, are increasingly used to manage fire-maintained Florida ecosystems. Goals include achieving or restoring desired vegetation structure and composition, providing habitat for listed species, and allowing the reintroduction of fire. We review studies evaluating mechanical treatments and herbicide effects on Florida's plant and animal communities. Mechanical treatments and herbicide often accelerated vegetation structure changes, but ecological benefits were generally greatest when they were combined with fire. Soil disturbances, weedy species increases, and rapid hardwood resprouting were sometimes problems with mechanical treatments. Fire itself was crucial for maintenance of individual species and species diversity. When feasible, mechanical and herbicide treatments should be used as pretreatments for fire rather than as fire surrogates. Managers should segue to fire-only approaches as soon as possible. The effects of removing fire, the most evolutionarily significant disturbance in Florida, on fire-adapted plants and animals requires more study. If we increase the use of mechanical agents, how will this affect ecosystem resilience? We suggest caution in using these evolutionarily novel treatments, with close monitoring of their effects. More information on the long-term effects of repeated non-fire treatments is needed before such approaches are adopted uncritically.
24319763|Previous historical research suggests that slaves supplemented their weekly food allotments with domestic and wild foodstuffs. Our research project, which utilized ecological, archeological and zooarcheological data, provides concrete evidence that slaves extensively exploited the wild food resources of the coastal ecozone of South Carolina, Georgia and northern Florida.
24320070|A checklist of plants found on the Merritt Island peninsula and the offshore barrier island complex encompassing Cape Canaveral is presented. Located midway along Florida's east coast, the region covered by the checklist extends about 70 mi north to south and includes about 225 sq mi. Although much of the original vegetation present in the southern half was destroyed as a consequence of rapid development in the 1960's, a diverse flora still exists. A total of 943 native or naturalized taxa plus 124 plants persisting from cultivation around abandoned homesites are listed. The flora represents approximately 25% of all the taxa estimated to be native to the state of Florida.
24321378|The attraction of larvae of the black salt marsh mosquito, Ochlerotatus taeniorhynchus, to blue, green, yellow and red colored lights was investigated. Aquatic light traps provided with chemical light sticks collected more mosquito larvae than did unlit control traps. Traps with blue light sticks collected the most mosquito larvae, followed in descending order by green, yellow, and red light sticks.
24319450|Acetylsalicylic acid and acetaminophen caused exaggerated increase in body temperature during heat stress. No beneficial effect was determined for survival time under heat stress.
24320292|Populations of native Cereus were studied over a 4-yr period, and all were found to be declining. Taxonomic confusion and different concepts of taxa are discussed and conclusions drawn.
24320741|Water level records from 37 locations in Florida Bay are used to quantify semidiurnal, diurnal, fortnightly, monthly, semiannual and annual tidal constituents. Semidiurnal and diurnal waves enter primarily from the Gulf side of the bay, but also through tidal channels that connect Florida Bay with the Atlantic Ocean. M2 amplitudes in the northwest corner of the bay are 35 cm; amplitudes in tidal channels along the southeast side of the bay are 1520 cm. S2 amplitudes decrease along the western boundary of the bay from 11 cm in the northwest corner to 2 cm at the southern end. Highest S2 amplitudes in tidal channels are 46 cm. K1 and O1 constituents have highest amplitudes of 15 and 12 cm in the northwest corner of the bay. Semidiurnal and diurnal tidal waves converging toward the interior of the bay are heavily damped, and amplitudes are less than 1 cm in the northcentral and northeast parts of the bay. Long-period tides are damped less. Amplitudes of the fortnightly and monthly constituents are 13 cm at all stations. The amplitude of the annual tidal constituent is 810 cm throughout Florida Bay. Nontidal forcing introduces considerable station-to-station, and year-to-year variability in the phase angles of the semiannual and annual constituents. Semiannual constituent amplitudes are 35 cm and act to delay annual maximum water levels to late September.
24320496|Fragments from sixteen separate races of hydrilla [Hydrilla verticillata, (L.f.) Royle] collected worldwide were evaluated in outside aquaria for ability to survive and grow. Differences were observed between races in their potential to establish and grow from fragments. Total biomass varied approximately sevenfold between the least and most productive races. The difference between the initial fragment and final weights ranged from 14 to 250 fold. Survival varied between 10 and 73%. A significant negative relationship was observed between first root development time and biomass. The number of rooted nodes which developed on stolons was the best single predictor of biomass production. Rates of root development on fragments of the various hydrilla races are criteria that may be useful in predicting the ability of the races to become established. Differences in shoot and root development were observed between races in their responses to applied plant growth regulators.
24320222|To understand physician involvement in hypertension treatment, selected specialists in Florida were queried with 2 mail questionnaires. Four-hundred forty-eight physicians, primarily cardiologists, internists and family/general practitioners responded. Over 74% treat hypertension, spending over 15% of their time doing so. Of treating physicians, over one-third do not provide hypertensive patients with educational materials; over 60% felt that a catalog of local hypertension services would not be of benefit to them. This research suggests that physician supervised treatment of hypertension by nurses and other allied health care personnel will become a reality because physicians will be forced to delegate treatment duties as more and more of the millions of currently undetected and untreated hypertensives seek treatment.
24322140|Environmental education has been part of the curriculum in Southwest Florida public schools. Curriculum objectives, such as environmental awareness, knowledge, and attitude, have been investigated in the literature as ways to improve the overall behavior of future citizens toward the environment. The purpose of this study was to conduct a preliminary evaluation of the aforementioned objectives among the following groups: environmental education specialists, high school instructors, high school students, and the parents of the corresponding students in three Southwest Florida counties. The returned surveys represented responses from 27 environmental education specialists, 15 high school instructors, 224 high school students, and 222 parents. This study found significant differences among the groups regarding the levels of environmental awareness, knowledge, and attitude. The environmental education specialists scored the highest for these components as compared to the lowest levels presented by parent awareness, parent attitude, and high school student knowledge. In addition, demographic factors such as socioeconomic status and preference of leisure activities resulted in differences among the groups. This study presents an alternative for the usually independent evaluation of awareness, knowledge, and attitude as an appropriate approach to the evaluation of environmental curriculum objectives.
24322129|Seagrass areal coverage is estimated through seagrass polygon maps created almost biennially in Charlotte Harbor, Florida by photo-interpreting aerial photographs. This effort reports and analyzes coverage data for 19822003 for Upper and Lower Charlotte Harbor regions and 13 seagrass segments. Analyses did not detect trends in Upper or Lower Charlotte Harbor regions from 19822003. The Placida and Pine Island segments displayed increasing trends from 19822003, while the Peace River segment demonstrated a decreasing trend. From 19882003 the Placida segment displayed an increasing trend in areal extent, while the nearby South Harbor segment demonstrated a decreasing trend. Several segments demonstrated trends in seagrass polygon classification from "patchy" to "continuous" or vice versa, whereas these segments displayed no trend in areal extent. Relatively large changes occurred between the 1996 and 1999 mapping events, potentially a result of above-average rainfall with the 19971998 El Nio. This effort proposes that the changes may also be resultant in part from changes in the timing of data acquisition. Despite regional stability in seagrass coverage, declining water quality in some areas and the potential for future declines in others give reason for concern for the long-term maintenance of seagrass coverage in the Charlotte Harbor area.
24321052|A 31.6 ha (78 acre) created wetland in east central Florida was used by 103 species of wildlife in the first two years following construction. Fauna included nine amphibians, six reptiles, 78 birds, and 10 mammals. Amphibians, birds, and mammals were observed in the first week of the first sampling period, and reptiles were first observed six months later. Cumulative species richness increased throughout the study. Both wetland and upland species were observed.
24321924|Now, more than ever, conservation and technology are crossing paths. The Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission (FWC) launched a citizen science portal to help with statewide gopher tortoise conservation. With the Florida Gopher Tortoise smartphone application ("app"), Florida residents and visitors can play a more significant role in species conservation. App users can help by submitting photos of opportunistic observations of gopher tortoises, including the location data, to FWC directly from their smartphone. The app also includes a quiz, information on the biology of the gopher tortoise, laws that protect it and its burrow, and how to report a suspected violation to law enforcement. The FWC has received an overwhelming amount of positive feedback from users and the media throughout Florida. The Florida Gopher Tortoise app's success fueled the development of additional citizen science initiatives that include volunteer and student intern programs. With the help of citizen scientists, volunteers, and interns, FWC is working to fill several data gaps that will help accomplish the goal of the Gopher Tortoise Management Plan and help conserve many other fish and wildlife species in Florida.
24319543|Twenty-one children from a second grade class were given the WISC in the spring of 1976. In December of that year they were again given a WISC, a WISC-R and a Stanford-Binet. The children scored significantly lower on the WISC-R than on either of the two WISC examinations or the Stanford-Binet. This has implications for the placement of children in academically handicapped or gifted programs. It appears that use of the WISC-R will result in more academically handicapped and fewer gifted children in a given sample than would be the case if the WISC had been used.
24321911|Good and cogent reasons exist for the removal of halides from natural water systems. This study was concerned with evaluating the ease or possibility of removing fluoride, chloride, and bromide ions from water by column chromatography with Octolig, commercially available supported chelating agents (polyethylenediimines covalently attached to a high-surface-area silica gel) (CAS Registry No. 404899-06-5). Previous research suggested a mechanism, for removal of certain anions, subsequent research indicated the efficacy for removal of fluoride ion, and still other research indicated that bromide was not removed under similar conditions. Plotting percent removal as a function of charge/ion volume ratio suggested that perhaps 20% removal might be anticipated for chloride ion; the actual result in deionized water was consistently 10%. Anomalous results observed with the attempted removal of chloride from solutions of well water are presented and considered.
24321097|Seagrass losses have been reported for the area of St. Andrew Bay known as West Bay, in Bay County, Florida. Utilizing both field density observations and aerial photography extrapolation for 1953, 1964, 1980, and 1992 images, estimated seagrass losses from West Bay have been reported by the U.S. Geological Survey to be over 1,000 acres or approximately 50%. Noteworthy anthropogenic events altering the condition of West Bay during this time period have included: 1) U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' (USCOE) construction of the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway (GIWW) between Choctawhatchee Bay and West Bay in 1938; 2) the creation of wetland drainage canals for both transportation and silvicultural purposes around the 1960s; 3) the 1970 implementation of an aquacultural endeavor, and 4) the 1971 introduction of a wastewater effluent to southern West Bay from a municipal sewage treatment plant. In an effort to better understand the cause of seagrass losses for the purpose of designing restoration efforts, a water and sediment quality survey was conducted. Suspected sediment contamination (potentially resulting from extensive use of antifouling coatings for nets and equipment during the aquacultural enterprise) was not confirmed with sediment sampling and analyses for metals and organotin compounds. Water column surveys revealed important differences in turbidity (NTU), water clarity (Secchi depth), and salinity (ppt). However, small differences in dissolved oxygen (mg/L), pH (SU), chlorophyll a (g/L), and temperature (EC) were not thought as important to seagrass loss or restoration efforts. Differences in water quality appeared to be heavily dependent on depth, wind direction, recent precipitation, tidal flow, and proximity to points of allochthonous inputs such as the GIWW, wetland drainage canals, stormwater runoff, and a wastewater effluent outfall.
24321933|The little free-tailed bat, Molossus molossus, on Boca Chica Key, Monroe County, Florida, feeds mostly on Coleoptera (81.4% volume), including Carabidae (35.9%), Scarabaeidae (9.7%), and Chrysomelidae (2.7%). These were followed by Hemiptera (24.7%), primarily Lygaeidae (9.6%), and Pentatomidae (2.9% volume). Very few lepidopterans, dipterans, homopterans, and hymenopterans (Formicidae, 1.3% volume) were eaten. This bat is one of relatively few species that feeds very heavily on hard bodied insects, mainly beetles, but also hemipterans. This mode of feeding for this species may have arisen through food partitioning.
24319706|A species association index based on presenceabsence data was used to identify 5 species complexes on Lake Conway, Florida. These complexes include Lepisosteus platyrhincusPomoxis nigromaculatus, Micropterus salmoidesLepomis macrochirus, Dorosoma petenenseLabidesthes sicculus, Gambusia affinisLucania goodei, and Lepomis gulosusEnneacanthus gloriosus associations. The 2 species with the largest index of affinity bear the complex name. All complexes were correlated with basic habitat features. Species pairs with the largest individual affinity indices included Dorosoma petenenseLabidesthes sicculus, Lucania goodeiGambusia affinis, and Micropterus salmoidesLepomis macrochirus.
24320684|Cladophora sp. filaments densely aggregated in ball-like structures, 1.5 to 2 cm in diameter, were found floating in shallow water (10 cm deep) and rolling on the bottom of a hypersaline pond. Diatoms, blue-green algae, dinoflagellates, and metazoaall in a healthy conditionthrived within the balls. The richly branched filaments interlaced by numerous rhizoids, and the environmental conditions of the habitat may account for the spherical shape of the structures. In the same location brown mounds of intertwined Phormidium sp. filaments securely attached to flat rocks formed low domes 1 to 3 cm tall and 1 to 7 cm in diameter. The mounds mainly consisted of alternating bands of filaments and carbonate particles, but diatoms, blue-green algae, red algae, and debris were also present. It is suggested that entrapment of carbonate particles by the mucilaginous sheaths of the filaments and seasonal growth of the mounds account for the bands of algae and particles.
24319531|The vegetation of southern Florida has been of interest to ecologists for many years. Five physiographic provinces are recognized for the area: the Sandy Flatwoods, the Everglades, the Big Cypress Swamp, the Atlantic Coastal Ridge, and the Coastal Marshes and Mangrove Swamps. There are 1647 species of vascular plants in this area with 60.6% of the total of tropical origin. The four components of the vegetation are the tropical flora, the temperate flora, the endemic flora, and the introduced flora. The endemic flora is approximately 10% of the total and most of these appear to be related to the temperate Appalachian flora. Additional research is needed to clarify the origin of Florida 's endemic species.
24319551|Ecotypes of Stylosanthes hamata (L.) Taub. were collected from along the east coast of south Florida. Among these, tetraploid types grew more vigorously than did diploid types. Some of the ecotypes of this native legume have a potential for use as a forage plant in south Florida pastures.
24320178|Interspecific brood size-body length comparisons for snakes indicate that the two variables are positively correlated. Three factors (reproductive mode, taxonomic group, and habitat type) are identified as significant correlates of relative fecundity (brood size/body length). Snakes with the highest relative fecundities are typically viviparous, tend to be from certain taxonomic (phylogenetic?) categories (primarily the Natricinae, Xenodontinae, and Viperinae), and/or are most often aquatic, semi-aquatic, or semi-fossorial.
24320175|A program to monitor sea turtle nesting activity was initiated by the Florida Department of Natural Resources (FDNR) in 1979. The total number of nests counted has increased each year; however, the length of beach surveyed has also increased. Analysis of nest density (number of nests/km) and data from beaches surveyed consistently over a number of years suggest that loggerhead (Caretta caretta) and leatherback (Dermochelys coriacea) nesting activity remained fairly stable during the seven year period while green turtle (Chelonia mydas) nesting activity increased markedly during the 1985 season.
24319536|Advanced eutrophication of the lake has resulted in massive algal blooms which have shaded out bottom dwelling plants so effectively that some can be found there no longer.
24320247|Antillophis parvifrons stygius was collected on Isla Saona, Repblica Dominicana. A female that was gravid when collected laid 4 eggs on 22 July and 3 eggs on 4 September. The hatchlings differed in coloration and pattern from adults of A. p. stygius and were reminiscent of A. p. paraniger. Adult A. p. stygius exhibited dorsoventral neck flattening, but this behavior was not observed in the hatchlings.
24319915|Archaeologically, portions of south Florida are still poorly known. A salvage archaeology excavation of a burial mound at the Nebot site (8Pb219) in Palm Beach establishes a Glades IIIc (A.D.1513-1700) occupation with several unique artifacts. Analysis of decorated bone pins and a projectile point presumed associated with two burials give insights into local mortuary practices as well as the use of metal alloy in decoration. Data are also presented suggesting cultural patterns common to other cultural areas in Florida.
24321012|The distribution of Aedes albopictus in Indian River County, Florida, was determined by larval and pupal collections. This mosquito is found in the eastern and central parts of the county, with the western portion free of infestation. Possible explanations for this distribution include sanitation, restricted public access, and St. John's Marsh serving as a barrier to movement.
24321539|The Atlantic Ridge Preserve State Park (ARPSP) in east central Martin County, Florida was surveyed for terrestrial amphibian and reptile species from December of 2001 to October 2003. The survey was conducted through drift fence arrays and opportunistic captures resulting in 328 animals captured representing 31 species (29 native, 2 introduced). The survey had a total of 1302 array days and was conducted in the park's predominant wet flatwoods plant community. The ARPSP contains many of the terrestrial species known to inhabit Martin County and shares most (82%) of the same species as are found in the wet flatwoods of nearby Jonathan Dickinson State Park.
24319782|In 1975, the Florida Legislature adopted the "Local Government Comprehensive Planning Act". This act requires all counties and municipalities to create a comprehensive plan to guide future urban development. I discuss the application of anthropological techniques and skills to the production of a comprehensive plan. I demonstrate the integration of ethnography and ethnoscience into the urban planning process. The perspective of this report is that of an interdisciplinary approach, as practiced through a private consulting firm.
24319937|Three species of intestional helminths were recovered from 100 Cuban anoles, Anolis sagrei sagrei, collected from residential areas of Tampa, Florida between May and October, 1981. Physaloptera squamatae was in the stomachs of 56(56 %) hosts with a mean intensity of infection of 19.1 worms. Cyrtosomum scelopori was recovered from the intestine less frequently (35 %), but had a higher mean intensity (99.6). Mesocoelium monas was in the intestine and stomach of 10 % of the hosts and exhibited the lowest mean intensity of infection (3.6). Physaloptera squamatae and M. monas are new host records. Significant positive correlations were observed between the prevalence and mean intensity of the 2 nematodes and host length. Male and female Cuban anoles had similar prevalences and mean intensities for all parasites.
24321727|A study of the hexapod biodiversity was performed on an urban university campus. Habitas included extensive turf/garden areas as well as a highly degraded pine scrub plot. Species were sorted into morphospecies and classified to the lowest taxonomic level possible. A total of 541 species representing 18 orders was collected and identified. The greatest species richness was represented in the Hemiptera (21.8%), Coleoptera (20.3%), Diptera (19.2%), Lepidoptera (18.9%) and Hymenoptera (13.5%) accounting for 93.7% of the total taxa collected. These same orders accounted for 82.9% of the 140 families represented. Based on the data collected it is inferred that the inventory is far from complete, although many of the taxa are likely adventive (not indigenous) to the area. Biodiversity was also assessed indirectly through comparison with reported ant diversity and beetle diversity from the region. The proportion of exotic ants on campus (46%) is much greater than that which has been reported for other regional sites. The highly disturbed environment, the exotic flora and subtropical location all appear to influence the proportion of exotic species found. These data provide a baseline for other studies on South Florida invertebrates and illustrate the ease with which exotic species can become established in a subtropical environment.
24319643|Carpiodes cyprinus and C. velifer were captured with a boat-mounted electrofishing apparatus in various habitats in the Escambia and Choctawhatchee rivers, and C. cyprinus was similarly captured in the Apalachicola River. There was much overlap in habitat, but in the Escambia River C. cyprinus occurred in mid-river more than would have been expected had the 2 species of carpsuckers been similarly distributed. Carpiodes cyprinus was concentrated in mid-river in late summer and early fall during low water in all 3 rivers, and during high water C. cyprinus occupied areas of reduced current. On the other hand, C. velifer occupied areas of reduced current in the Escambia and Choctawhatchee rivers throughout the year.
24319701|In recent years, there has been a decline in Florida's waterfowl population, especially among the dabbling ducks and geese. There is much speculation as to what is responsible for this decline. Although Florida has an abundance of potential areas for waterfowl populations, very little intensive management is practiced on a statewide basis. I discuss the types of waterfowl management employed on Florida's wetlands and compare these practices with waterfowl populations occurring within the State. Problems confronting wetlands managers and some possible alternatives for management are discussed.
24320313|Three species of cichlid fishes (Cichlasoma octofasciatum, Tilapia melanotheron, and T. mossambica) and 2 poeciliid species (Xiphophorus maculatus and X. helleri) have been introduced recently into the coastal canals and waterways of the Banana-Indian River estuary near Satellite Beach, Brevard County, Florida. Collections taken during 1980 and 1981 indicate that the cichlids are firmly established, rapidly expanding their ranges, and capable of tolerating saline conditions and low water temperatures. Of immediate concern is the possibility of the detrimental impact on commercially-important native species, which use the estuaries as nursery grounds.
24320968|Information is scarce on the herpetofaunal community of upland hardwood forest. Three drift fence arrays were used over a one-year period to survey the herpetofauna of a tract of upland hardwood forest in Gadsden County, Florida. A total of 914 individuals of 18 amphibian and 14 reptile species was captured. Coverboards and incidental observations yielded one additional amphibian and seven additional reptile species. The most frequently captured species were the southern toad (Bufo terrestris), three-lined salamander (Eurycea guttolineata), southern two-lined salamander (E. cirrigera), and southeastern slimy salamander (Plethodon grobmani). Recaptures constituted 13.3% of all captures. Reptiles exhibited a bimodal pattern of seasonal activity. Most anurans (95.6%) and reptiles (81.6%) were captured from April to October. Over one-half of the anurans captured were immature individuals. Salamanders exhibited more year-round activity than anurans, particularly during periods of precipitation during their breeding seasons. Bimonthly capture rates for anurans were correlated with lowest recorded minimum air temperature and amount of precipitation, whereas capture rates for salamanders were only correlated with amount of precipitation. Noteworthy findings were the presence of four-toed (Hemidactylium scutatum) and Apalachicola dusky (Desmognathus apalachicolae) salamanders. Retention of undisturbed hardwood forests along streams and protection of the quantity and quality of water in streams and seepage areas are recommended to maintain a diverse amphibian community in a fragmented rural or residential landscape.
24320388|Foods of young blue tilapia, Oreochromis aureus, and larvae of sympatric fishes in Lake George, Florida, were examined to characterize the early trophic ecology of this introduced species under natural conditions and to estimate the extent of overlap in food between young blue tilapia and the young of native fishes. Brooded blue tilapia positively selected for rotifers and the cladoceran Bosmina, but phytoplankton and detritus were about 90% of the gut contents (volumetrically). Newly independent blue tilapia ate mostly immature copepods, Bosmina, and rotifers. Bosmina, Diaphanosoma, and adult calanoid copepods were positively selected for; about 10 % of the volume of the gut contents consisted of planktonic algae and particulate detritus. Similarity of diets of shads (Dorosoma spp.) and independent blue tilapia was relatively high, suggesting that exploitative competition between early life history stages of these species may contribute to the declines in shad population abundances observed following introductions of blue tilapia.
24319662|Three fishes were collected for the first time in Louisiana during recent ecological investigations in the Mississippi River. The known ranges of Hybopsis gelida, H. meekei and Noturus flavus were extended 1125, 642, and 370 river km, respectively.
24321062|The Surficial Aquifer on Kennedy Space Center, Merritt Island, Florida occurs in unconsolidated Pleistocene and Holocene deposits; it is divided into four subaquifers (Dune, Dune-Swale, West Plain, Marsh) based on recharge areas and groundwater characteristics. We determined background characteristics from shallow (4.6 m, N = 24), intermediate (10.7 m, N = 16), and deep (15.2 m, N = 11) wells distributed among the four subaquifers. Wells were located away from known contamination. Organochlorine pesticides, aroclors, and chlorinated herbicides were below detection in all samples. Seven polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) occurred at low frequencies and concentrations at shallow depths of the Dune, Dune-Swale, and West Plain subaquifers. PAHs are present in soils and have both natural and anthropogenic sources. Most trace elements were below detection or in low concentrations. Only Al, Ca, Cl-, Fe, Mg, Mn, K, and Na along with total dissolved solids (TDS), total organic carbon (TOC), conductivity, pH, dissolved oxygen (DO), and temperature could be compared among subaquifers and depths. Ca, Cl-, Mg, Mn, K, Na, TDS, conductivity, and temperature differed with subaquifer and depth (ANOVA). These trends reflected increased mineralization with depth and interactions of the Dune and Marsh subaquifers with saline ocean and lagoon waters.
24320985|Describes the concept and approach of a water budget computer model which treats an entire aquifer as a unit, with emphasis on long-term effects. The model includes terms for rainfall, runoff, evapotranspiration, recharge/discharge, leakage, springs and pumpage, and allows multiple aquifer layers. The paper shows an example of application of the model to a real-world aquifer of reasonably well known characteristics.
24320176|Trout Lake (Lake County, Florida) was stocked on August 8, 1979 with 1,620 (38/hectare) marked advanced fingerling (100-134 mm) Florida largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides floridanus) to determine if the harvestable size bass population could be increased. The percentage of stocked largemouth bass in young-of-the-year (y-o-y) samples remained relatively constant at an average of 21 % through November 1979. An estimated 1.4% of the stocked largemouth bass recruited to harvestable size. The largemouth bass population of Trout Lake, which had successful reproduction and adequate survival of naturally produced y-o-y during our investigation, did not significantly increase in number due to supplemental stocking of advanced fingerling largemouth bass. Stocking of such systems was found to be cost prohibitive.
24321555|Glycerophospholipid and glycerophospholipid-bound fatty acid composition in isolated Trichinella spiralis larvae, nurse cells, and infectedluninfected mouse diaphragm tissue was determined by thin-layer chromatography on silica gel and by gas-liquid chromatography. Phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylserine, phosphatidylethanolamine and cardiolipin (di-phosphatidylglycerol) were the predominant phospholipids, with each sample exhibiting a characteristic mass of each phospholipid based on lipid phosphorus content. Elevated levels of phosphatidylserine were observed in nurse cells. Depressed levels of cardiolipin were observed in infected whole muscle tissue. The composition of fatty acids bound to phospholipids also varied between samples with the greatest variability in the relative amounts of C 16:0, 18:0, 22:0, 22:2, and 24:0.
24321598|To determine if our proposed oyster restoration methodology would restore biological diversity to damaged oyster reef ecosystems in Mosquito Lagoon, Florida, lift nets were deployed on the edges of 30 reefs in Canaveral National Seashore. Instead of the live oyster clusters used in a previous Mosquito Lagoon study (Boudreaux et al. 2006), each lift net contained either a plastic mesh square (control) or an oyster restoration mat, our proposed method of restoration. Oyster restoration mats were 0.4  0.4 m pieces of plastic mesh to which 36 drilled oyster shells were perpendicularly attached with cable ties. We quantified all flora and fauna in nets monthly between May 2006 and February 2007. During this time, a total of 12 macroalgal species and 87 animal species were observed in the lift nets. Overall, we found significantly higher numbers of motile and sessile animal species in our lift nets (p = 0.007 and p = 0.028, respectively) than in Boudreaux and co-workers (2006). Significantly more animal species and numbers of individuals were found in lift nets with oyster restoration mats than control lift nets. Based on our results, we are confident that our restoration mat design promotes biological diversity on restored oyster reefs.
24319867|Harvesting, site preparation and planting in slash pine flatwoods affect the herbaceous vegetation of the included wetlands in proportion to the amount of planting site disturbance. Short-term effects of management in the pinelands are not detectable in the woody components of the wetlands. Studies by other workers have indicated long-term impacts on woody species, suggesting more research is needed to determine the response of all components of the included wetlands.
24321199|Certified organic farmers from throughout the state of Florida provided information on cropping cycles, pests, and pest management practices. Florida's mixed organic vegetable farms are characterized by a broad range of pest problems due to the high degree of crop diversity on the farms, and the varied growing conditions found in the state, from temperate to subtropical. Because of the diversity of crops grown, no one pest predominates. With few exceptions, the pest problems encountered by organic growers are not different from those affecting conventional farmers. Organic growers tend to tolerate higher levels of pest damage, perhaps because of the higher market value of organic produce. Many organic growers exhibit a commitment to crop diversity that is based on farming philosophy as well as economics, and a willingness to experiment with new crops and new market niches. The complexity and flexibility of Florida's mixed organic vegetable farms enables growers to respond to pest pressure in many instances by reducing or eliminating a highly susceptible crop. Growers' responses revealed the need for increased ability to identify both pest and beneficial arthropod species. Several growers requested assistance in increasing natural on-farm biological control. Challenges to carrying out on-farm research under diverse cropping systems are discussed.
24321999|A total of 38 drift-fence arrays were sampled in Big Bend Wildlife Management Area (BBWMA), Taylor and Dixie counties, Florida, to assess the amphibian and reptile species composition within basin marsh, depression marsh, dome swamp, mesic flatwoods, scrubby flatwoods, wet flatwoods, hydric hammock, maritime hammock, mesic hammock, xeric hammock, sandhill, tidal marsh, upland hardwood forest, and ruderal (former sandhill and scrub in the process of being restored). There were 3,003 captures of 29 amphibian species and 943 captures of 37 reptile species during the 20092010 drift-fence survey. This has been the first survey for portions of BBWMA in more than 16 yr. There were six rare species (tracked by Florida Natural Areas Inventory) documented during this sampling effort: Crotalus adamanteus (eastern diamondback rattlesnake), Lampropeltis getula (eastern kingsnake), Gopherus polyphemus (gopher tortoise), Lithobates capito (gopher frog), Nerodia clarkii (gulf saltmarsh snake), and Amphiuma pholeter (one toed amphiuma). No exotic amphibian or reptile species was encountered.
24321479|Iron (III) forms an octahedral geometry with siderophores via Fe-O and/or Fe-N bonds. In this study semi-empirical (PM3) calculations are used to estimate the number of stable complexes possible between Fe(III) and the pharmaceutical agent bryostatin-1 (C47H68O17). One hundred and seventy-three unique Fe(III)-bryostatin-1 complexes were studied; none with a Fe-O bond distance greater 2.7 . Unique ferric-bryostatin complexes are defined as having six different Fe-O bonds, a unique dipole moment (D), molecular volume (V) and D/V ratio. In addition, ferricbryostatin complexes with five Fe-O bonds and a water or hydroxide anion occupying the sixth inner sphere site was also studied. This computational study suggests that the Fe(III)-bryostatin complex obtains stability in solution from the multiple geometries possible essentially trapping the ferric ion within the bryophan ring. The stable complexes studied thereby suggest why most siderophore complexes are difficult or impossible to crystallize. Finally, it is shown that the Fe(III)-bryostatin-1 complex can undergo significant shifts in polarity by shifting either of the seventeen oxygen atoms involved in the Fe-O bonding. These shifts allow the complex to adapt to various polarities by shifting bonds, hence it is dubbed a polarity smart molecule because it can adapt to its environment.
24319983|The Boynton Beach Mound site (8Pbl00) is an inland burial and midden mound complex in South Florida dating from 150 B.C. (Glades I) to the time of European contact. This paper describes and analyzes the skeletal characteristics of the occupants and compares this group with other Southeast Indians. The burial population consisted of 23 calvaria and 12 postcranial partial skeletons representing 16 females and 8 males. Juvenile mortality rate (29%) was high compared with other sites, but 13 % lived past 50 years. Stature of one male was at least 171 cm; stature of one female was about 155 cm. Adult teeth were generally worn horizontally to the dentin, and had no caries. Two skulls showed unusual deformation. With the exception of a case of periostitis, skeletal health was generally good.
24321423|Five pop-up bayhead islands in Arthur R. Marshall Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge were surveyed for height and topography. Height measurements were collected from 4 or 5 transects at 2 m intervals aligned along north-south and east-west axis of each island. Maximum tree island height relative to marsh averaged 0.84  0.05 m (S.E.) and ranged from 0.690.97 m. Mean and median height for all islands combined was 0.39  0.01 m. Examination of water levels from 19952004, suggests that tree islands in the central and central-south part of the refuge have experienced water levels above 0.4 m (median height) 86% and 71% of the time and >0.6 m 39% and 17% of the time, respectively. During those nine years, the number of times that duration of water level above 0.4 and 0.6 m exceeded 60 days (a timeframe suggested to cause "stress") was ten and two, respectively, for the central area. Tree islands in the central-south area experienced greater than 60 days with water level above 0.4 m and 0.6 m eight and nine times, respectively. The average duration of water level above median island height was 225  27 days for the central area and 350  71 days for the central-south area. Average duration above 0.6 m was 104  41 and 127  15 days for the central and central-south areas, respectively. These data suggest that recent water level conditions within the southern part of the refuge may not be optimal for long-term sustainability of tree islands.
24319751|Four fish species, Ophichthus gomesi, Ophidion marginatum, Echeneis neucratoides, and Hypleurocheilus geminatus, are recorded for the first time from the Indian River lagoon system on the east coast of Florida.
24320422|An active gopher tortoise (Gopherus polyphemus) burrow was used by an eastern spotted skunk (Spilogale putorius) for escape cover during winter. The burrow was subsequently utilized by the skunk as a winter den during late winter and early spring. This commensal relationship ended when spotted skunks apparently usurped the burrow, enlarged it, and utilized it to successfully raise 3 young.
24320773|Ocean current meters in 18 and 24 m depth water along the southeast Florida coast recorded water motions as Hurricane Andrew crossed the narrow continental shelf with the storm center 32 km from the southernmost current meter. Wind speeds up to 55 m s-1 at the meter closest to the storm path were associated with recorded mean current speeds up to 94 cm s-1. The greatest water speeds, however, were transient motions from the wind waves. These motions caused major changes to the bottom and to objects lying on it. Direct and remotely sensed observations showed an increasing degree of turbulence in the water as the hurricane approached, stirring both air bubbles and bottom sediment throughout the water and mixing the water so that vertical shear in the current was suppressed. Thus, beneath the strong wind stress there was not a mean water flow in the direction of the wind at the surface and a flow in the opposite direction near the bottom, as had been indicated in previous studies. In later stages of the storm passage, the current developed an eastward component, running against the incoming wind waves, which may have contributed to the evolution of the most extreme conditions.
24320304|The planktonic foraminiferal fauna was studied from 186 samples collected by the R/V Melville in the Southwest Atlantic Ocean during 1972. The samples were collected in the surface layer (horizontal tows) and throughout the water column from 500-0 m. (vertical tows). Twenty species were recognized (some with various formae). These species can be divided according to their temperature requirements into cold-temperate, warm-temperate, warm and cosmopolitan species. Based on the distribution of these species, 4 types of surface water were determined.
24319735|We report northward range extensions of Gnathophyllum modestum Hay and Lysmata intermedia (Kingsley) of 203 and 445 km, respectively. A new bathymetric record (91 m) is recorded for L. amboinensis (DeMan). The continuous distribution of Trachycaris restrictus (A. MilneEdwards) in the Gulf of Mexico is clarified by heretofore obscured data on geographic station locations.
24319434|Calculated x-ray powder diffraction patterns from refined crystal structure data indicate that, although the JCPDS data for harite, celestite and anglesite in the Powder Diffraction File are of high reliability, there are several errors in indexing the reflections. Calculated standard scale factors are given for these three minerals.
24320120|One hundred forty-five measurements of the earth's magnetic intensity field in Polk County, Florida, yielded residual anomalies ranging from -300 to +200 nano Teslas. A strong, northwest-trending negative anomaly is flanked on both sides by positive anomalies. The contrast in magnetic patterns is attributed to magnetic effects from the truncated southern boundary of the granitic Avalon Complex in the Florida basement. This boundary, and the magnetic lineations associated with it, may be evidence of a major and presently inactive transpeninsular fault.
24320949|An annotated bibliography is given of the analyses of selenium developed in the last four years. The methods of analyses include spectrophotometry, voltammetry, atomic absorption, and electrophoresis, among others. Most determine total selenium, a few determine inorganic selenium [Se(IV), Se(VI)] and organic selenium (selenocystine, selenomethionine).
24320638|It is suggested that the major source of mercury for the contamination of Florida's biosphere results from the use of mercury in silver refining in Mexico during 1550-1900 A.D. Since Florida is downwind from Mexico, volatilized mercury rained down on Florida (1550-1900) to become immobilized in a large organic mercury sink. However, clearing and burning of underbrush, draining of swamps for large-scale farming, and construction of roadways and living communities over large areas have resulted in air oxidation of organic matter in the mercury sink, liberating mercury to be volatilized back into the atmosphere. This mercury is becoming a problem in Florida's biosphere.
24319728|The first occurrence of Urnatella gracilis Leidy in Florida is reported. Substrate utilization and physicochemical parameters are reported.
24321401|Uranium in drinking water represents a chemotoxic concern as well as a radiotoxic concern, but the mandated reduction in acceptable level of uranium in water to 30 ppb is related to the chemical toxicity of uranium species. The efficacy of Ferrilig, the iron(III) derivative of Octolig (CAS registry number 404899-06-5) was investigated. Ferrilig can be formed by treating Octolig with aqueous ferrous sulfate, then allowing for spontaneous oxidation upon exposure to air to produce the iron(III) derivative. The hydroxide derivative was used as a chromatographic matrix, and the removal of 50 ppb uranium (as uranyl acetate) was tested. At least 99% of the uranium in tap water or well water was removed by a 2-cm id column packed with 22 cm of Ferrilig at a rate of 10 mL/min (3.7 mL/min/cm2). The removal capability of Thorilig, the thorium(IV) derivative of Octolig, was also prepared and tested and was slightly superior to the removal with Ferrilig. Implications of this result are considered. Both derivatives had about the same effectiveness as plain Octolig.
24320257|Food intake of lemon sharks was investigated to determine whether hunger and satiation play a role in their behavior. Lemon sharks (Negaprion brevirostris) were placed under controlled conditions and given a single 45 min feeding trial each day for 95 da. During a trial the sharks were offered preweighed pieces of fish fillet and rate of feeding was individually monitored. A spectral analysis of the intake data revealed a tendency toward 4-day cycles in amount eaten. We suggest that the 4-da cycle reflects an internally mediated biological rhythm. Thus, appetite varies over time and satiation certainly operates in the behavior of lemon sharks.
24319733|Fossilized fish hyperostoses (Tilly bones) are commonly found in Pliocene and Pleistocene deposits throughout Florida; however, the Caloosahatchee marl formation in the vicinity of Port Charlotte is an exceptionally rich source. Neither the function nor the developmental history of Tilly bones are well known. Likewise, the taxonomic affinities of those fossilized bones are poorly understood. Further investigation of fossilized fish hyperostoses could provide a better understanding of prehistoric environmental conditions in Florida.
24321098|Distribution records for gall midges, shore flies, and crane flies in the Florida Keys are presented. The distribution of the black mangrove gall-making midge, Meunieriella avicenniae, in the Florida Keys is reported, as are some notes on the adult morphology. The presence of the kleptoparasite Didactylomyia longimana in the Florida Keys is noted. The shore fly, Brachydeutera neotropica, was found breeding in a sewage treatment plant in Marathon, Vaca Key, Florida. The crane flies Limonia brevivena, L. domestica, and L. floridana are reported from the Florida Keys.
24321111|The rapid expansion and increase of coyotes (Canis latrans) throughout Florida during the last several decades has increased concerns over potential loss of livestock among Florida cattlemen. We surveyed Florida beef cattle producers during 1998 to ascertain their perceptions of coyotes in Florida. We distributed surveys through the Florida Cattleman and Livestock Journal and during the 1998 Florida Cattlemen's Association Annual Convention (Marco Island, FL). Fifty-six surveys, 25 from northern counties and 31 from southern counties, were completed. The number of producers from both north and south Florida reporting loss of calves to coyote predation increased 7-fold from 1992 through 1997. Peak periods of livestock damage by coyotes were reported during November through April in both regions, which corresponded with cattle parturition and mating and pupping by coyotes. The number of cattlemen employing coyote control measures, and the total hours devoted to coyote control, steadily increased from 1992 (3 producers and 5 hours, respectively) through 1997 (31 producers and 843 hours, respectively). The predominant methods of coyote control were firearms (73%) and trapping (27%). The number of coyotes reported killed by ranchers increased from 13 during 1992, to 100 during 1997. Forty-one percent of cattlemen surveyed reported seeing coyotes as solitary individuals, and 54% reported seeing coyotes in small groups of 24. Ninety-eight percent of producers surveyed perceived the number of coyotes in Florida to be increasing, and 69% felt that coyotes were causing a decline in wildlife on their ranches. Ninety-eight percent of the cattlemen surveyed indicated that there was a need for research on coyotes in Florida.
24319956|Eighteen common snook juveniles were grown in salt water and eighteen in fresh water for 105 days. Fillet composition and culinary characteristics were then compared with those of wild snook. No significant differences were found, except that wild snook had less total lipids. Composition of raw fillets was 20-21% protein, 0.5-0.8% total lipids, 0.2% carbohydrate, 1.1% ash, and 77% water. Fatty acids tended to be more saturated than in other species, but total lipid content was very low. Baked snook fillets had a fresh or delicate aroma, bland taste, and a juicy, meaty, firm texture. Fillet yield (skinless, boneless fillet weight/total weight) of 350-g snook was 57%.
24319759|Ultrasonographic measurements were made of skin, fat and muscle depth at selected sites on the trunk and limbs and anthropometric measurements were made of stature, weight and skinfolds in 150 children with diabetes mellitus and in 87 control children matched for age, sex and race. Diabetic children weighed less, were not significantly shorter, had reduced muscle mass and greater adiposity than did control children. These anthropometric and body composition differences are related to diabetes pathology and treatment, diet and activity levels.
24320378|A report of Prunum apicinum Menke (1828) feeding on the calcareous algae Jania pumila.
24319430|Similarity of mother-youth beliefs was compared to the relationship of similarity to youth's feelings of self-estrangement. For 369 motheryouth pairs we attempted to operationalize Cooley's looking-glass model. Data suggest that mother is an historical "mirror" image that influences youth's perception of self and some abstractions that Cooley hypothesized in his model tend to be substantiated.
24321904|The apple snail Pomacea maculata is a recent introduction to Florida from its native range in South America. Little is known about the growth characteristics of apple snails. We measured 18Oaragonite values along the shell growth axis of the non-native, aquatic pulmonate gastropod, Pomacea maculata, to determine its life span and seasonal growth pattern in Florida. Age, growth rate, and season of growth of P. maculata were determined from seasonal temperature fluctuations, inferred from 18O values measured on aragonite drilled along the shell whorl. Eight of the 22 P. maculata lived less than one year, ten slightly longer than one year, and one into its third year. Three snails yielded indeterminate results. Snails from lakes Tulane and Verona deposited the majority of carbonate during late fall/early winter, whereas growth in Newnans Lake was divided across the seasons. Among specimens taken alive, and for which time of death was known, there were offsets along the shell margin with respect to 18O values predicted from 18Olake-water and temperature. The 18Oaragonite of snails raised in temperature-controlled settings, however, was in close agreement with calculated empirical values. Isotopic offsets along the growth margin are probably a consequence of diminished carbonate deposition with increased specimen age.
24320534|An investigation of the prevalence and epidemiology of human head lice (Pediculus humanus capitis) was conducted in the elementary schools of Hillsborough County, Florida during the academic years of 1985-86 and 1986-87. A questionnaire survey of county schools showed that 6.7% of the students (excluding Blacks) were infested in 1985-86. Nearly half of the cases were due to reinfestations. Students in one school were examined 4 times, at approximately 3 month intervals in 1986-87, and answered questionnaires. Ninety-seven (6.4%) of the 1515 White, Hispanic, and Asian students were infested, but none of the 436 Blacks was infested. The distribution of pediculosis in non-black students was significantly influenced by season, sex, hair length, race, family size, crowding in the home, infestation of other family members, socioeconomic level, and mode of transportation to and from school. Classroom activities of students associated with increased lice infestation included using headsets, crowding at tables, and sitting on the floor.
24321649|This study compared optical model predictions to empirical data on light attenuation with respect to numerical water quality targets developed for Lemon Bay, Charlotte Harbor and Estero Bay, Florida. Results suggested that the agreement between observed and predicted light attenuation was segment specific. Observed and modeled data agreed on the proportion of target exceedances in four of twelve segments within the study area. However, there was substantial uncertainty in the predictions over the range of observed Kd. Higher chlorophyll a concentrations seemed to result in over-prediction bias while under prediction bias seemed to result from light attenuating constituents outside the model. Segment specific regressions improved the fit to the observed data only in some cases. That large variability remains in the relationship between the optical model and observed light attenuation is postulated to be due to several sources including; unmeasured non-chlorophyll suspended matter and dissolved organic matter not captured by the current sampling program, the effects of mineral suspended solids on the scattering of light in the water column, the spectral components of light attenuation and measurement error in the observed light attenuation data.
24321186|The present, non-marine herpetofauna of Egmont Key consists of three (possibly four) snakes, two (possibly five) lizards, two turtles, and three frogs. Three species (Cuban Treefrog, Osteopilus septentrionalis; Indo-Pacific Gecko, Hemidactylus garnotii; Cornsnake, Elaphe guttata) are reported for the first time. The Cuban Treefrog and Indo-Pacific Gecko likely arrived with construction material; the sole Cornsnake may have been a released captive. There are no recent records of three species (Green Treefrog, Hyla cinerea; Mole Skink, Eumeces egregius; Eastern Diamond-backed Rattlesnake, Crotalus adamanteus). The Green Anole (Anolis carolinensis), thought extirpated, was resighted in 1998. This species may have recently recolonized or been transported to the island rather than have persisted unseen for more than 90 years.
24321073|Florida scrub is one of the most threatened ecosystems in Florida. There is urgent need for basic research directed toward scrub species if their needs are to be considered in conservation planning. We report the results of a herpetological survey conducted in scrub on Avon Park Air Force Range (APAFR) and the Arbuckle Tract (AT) of the Lake Wales State Forest from May 1994October 1998 using visual surveys, trap arrays, trapping grids, and coverboards. These two areas of scrub are located on ridges of different geologic origin (APAFR, Bombing Range Ridge; AT, Lake Wales Ridge). Forty species were captured on APAFR, and 15 species on AT, where survey intensity was lower. The most commonly trapped reptiles (Anolis carolinensis, Cnemidophorus s. sexlineatus, Sceloporus woodi, and Tantilla relicta neilli) were captured throughout the year with the lowest rates of capture occurring during the coldest months (DecemberJanuary). Captures of amphibians were more seasonal, and included adults moving through scrub to breeding ponds and metamorphs dispersing from ponds. Data on movements of recently metamorphosed gopher frogs (Rana capito aesopus) indicate that peak reproductive activity of this species occurs in winter, as reported for northern populations. Although the herpetofauna in APAFR scrub is generally similar to the fauna reported for the Lake Wales Ridge, the sand skink (Neoseps reynoldsi) and the bluetail mole skink (Eumeces egregius lividus) were not recorded on APAFR despite intensive sampling. Both species were captured on the Arbuckle Tract. These data are consistent with other reports that suggest the two skinks are not found on the Bombing Range Ridge.
24321859|Seagrass monitoring is conducted annually throughout the Charlotte Harbor estuarine complex by the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, Charlotte Harbor Aquatic Preserves office. This program provides baseline, status and trends data of seagrass parameters for assessing estuarine health. Results from 19992009 show the three most common seagrass species throughout the Charlotte Harbor area are Halodule wrightii, Thalassia testudinum and Syringodium filiforme. Seagrass appears relatively stable across the study area with minor declines associated with considerable wet years and hurricane events. Since 2004, the total abundance of all seagrass species, as well as the density of H. wrightii, increased significantly. In 2009, H. wrightii and S. filiforme had the highest mean shoot count in Gasparilla Sound and Lemon Bay. The tidal Peace and Myakka river systems have the lowest occurrence, abundance and densities of seagrass. The maximum depth of seagrass growth has increased since 1999 with San Carlos Bay having the deepest growing seagrass. San Carlos Bay experienced declines in seagrass abundance during high flow events from the Caloosahatchee River. Continued monitoring will be important to track changes, understand potential causes of trends, and to aid in estuarine management so the aquatic preserves can be maintained in an essentially natural condition.
24321095|The SAFE (Strategic Assessment of Florida's Environment) index is an environmental measurement system that covers five areas, i.e., air quality, surface water quality, groundwater quality, water quantity and use, and natural resource protection. For each area, indices have been developed that encompass that area. It appears that another area may help reflect the impact of Florida's expanding population, i.e., the Farm Index. Florida's expanding population must be housed in some way, and it would appear that this is done at the expense of farm land given up for development. Total farm acreage in Florida was obtained from statistical sources and presented in chronological order. The index was calculated as before with 1969 taken as a base year (1969 value = 100). A major problem was obtaining consistent data because the definition of "farm" changed several times over the years.
24321468|Although the Lake Wales Ridge (LWR) has long been recognized as a distinctive geomorphological and biogeographical feature of peninsular Florida, no precise, documented boundary map exists. We provide an ecological boundary map of the LWR based on soils, topography, vegetation, land use, and species distributions. Our boundary is similar to previous maps, but includes the endemicrich LWR State Forest and the Royce Tract of the LWR Wildlife and Environmental Area, and excludes the "Apopk Knob" lowlands. We also find that there is little support for the delineation of the intraridge valley or the Carlton Ranch Ridge of previous authors. We determined the areal extent of post-Columbian xeric upland habitat loss on the LWR based on soils maps overlain on aerial photographs (19791990). Overall, 78% of xeric upland communities on the LWR was lost by 1990; more recent estimates suggest losses of> 85%. Losses were greatest on yellow sands at the northern end of the Ridge, and least on white sands near the southern end. Most LWR edges have been altered by residential and agricultural development. The Lake Wales Ridge, which provides habitat for globally unique and endemic-rich ecosystems, continues to lose wildlands to development. Poster-sized hardcopy and digital versions of the map are available through our website (www.archbold-station.org).
24320028|This annotated bibliography with 316 references represents an initial effort to compile the available material dealing, either primarily or peripherally, with the sand pine scrub community in Florida. The literature survey utilized a computer search of four data bases, a hand search of local libraries, references contained in pertinent articles, unpublished studies and research projects, and resource information from private, state, and federal agencies. References concerning taxonomic botany and faunal associates are for the most part not included.
24312040|Turtle Mound, a shell midden built by the Timucua Indians is now covered by dense vegetation. Many of the dominant species are of tropical origin. Climatic and edaphic conditions have allowed these species to flourish. The remainder of the species on the mound are elements from coastal dune, salt marsh, temperate hammock, mangrove and ruderal communities.
24319879|Female Florida softshell turtles mature at 28-30 cm carapace length and lay up to 5 or 6 clutches of eggs per year between late March and mid-July. Clutch size averages 17.6 (range 9-24), and maximum egg diameter averages 28.9 mm. The incubation period is between 64 and 79 da and is inversely correlated with temperature. Clutch mass relative to body mass may be among the lowest for turtles.
24319548|Range extensions and county records are reported for 8 species of small mammals in Texas.
24320745|Silica gel used for support for supported chelators was tested in water and 42% phosphoric acid for stability. Sieve sizes were measured for control and for samples present in the solvents for one hour. The results indicate slight change in distribution for these conditions confirming the usefulness of this relatively cheap material for use as a support for chelating agents.
24321433|The objective of this study was to determine whether birds avoid edges of 6 small urban forest remnants (2.616.6 ha) in Gainesville, Florida. We compared relative abundances of species and residency groups within winter, spring, summer, and fall in edge (up to 40 m from edge) and interior (beyond 40 m from edge) locations from November 2004 through October 2005. Few species or residency groups avoided the edges; this may be partially driven by similarities in vegetative structure from edge to interior locations. However, the possible avoidance of edges by some fall migrants suggests that the interior of these small urban forest fragments may be of importance to these species during migration.
24320562|The striped mullet (Mugil cephalus Linnaeus), an inshore fish species, is distributed worldwide and forms an important part of the commercial catch in many areas, including Florida. Its geographic range in the eastern Pacific Ocean (northern Chile to central California) has been known for some time, but in the Atlantic Ocean its distribution has been a source of confusion. Evidence is presented to show that in the eastern Atlantic M. cephalus occurs as far south as Ghana (where it evidently is extremely rare) and does not range down to the tip of Africa, as some literature references indicate. In the western Atlantic it is found from New England south as far as the Gulf of Campeche, Mexico. Previous reports of its occurrence throughout the West Indies and along the Atlantic coasts of Central and South America are erroneous.
24321474|Introduced exotic species are a well-recognized problem in Florida's subtropical ecosystems. The presence of the exotic Mayan cichlid (Cichlasoma urophthalmus) was first confirmed in Florida in 1983, when numerous individuals were found in northeastern Florida Bay. Since then, this species has continued to expand its range northward. The capture, beginning in October 2004 to present, of large numbers of Mayan cichlids from central Florida's east- and west-coast mangrove systems north of 28 N latitude is documented here. Mayan cichlids in a wide range of sizes (estimated ages 07 years) at both east- and west-coast sites were collected. In addition, macroscopic examination of gonads showed the presence of developing eggs. The occurrence of multiple age-classes, maturing individuals, cichlid nests, and juveniles, plus repeated collections over a four-year period, indicates that the Mayan cichlid is successfully reproducing and surviving the average winter temperatures in some estuarine waters in central Florida.
24319402|Nineteen (14.6%) of 130 gopher tortoises examined had divided, extra, or missing scutes on the carapace. A relatively high frequency of abnormalities in smaller animals suggests a higher mortality of abnormally-scutellated individuals in the population studied.
24319745|Several buried soils were found in the Apalachicola National Forest in the Florida panhandle. In 2 of these, wood fragments from gymnospermous plants (probably bole) occurred at depths of 1.5 to 1.8 m in a buried soil. These were dated at 4,280 and 7,110 yr old. We believe the mechanism of burial was by aeolian transport and that a xerophytic environment occurred during the period of burial.
24321171|I report on the first recorded specimen of the nonindigenous blue catfish (Ictalurus furcatus) from the Suwannee River in northern Florida. This represents an introduction far to the east of any known Florida populations. The specimen was captured on 23 January 2002 by hook-and-line in the vicinity of Rock Bluff along the border of Dixie and Gilchrist counties. Local anglers have reported additional catches, but these reports are unsubstantiated. Moreover, subsequent sampling for catfish by the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission in 2002 and 2003 did not produce any additional specimens and therefore the persistence and reproduction of blue catfish in the Suwannee River is unconfirmed. The origin of this illegal introduction is unknown.
24320674|Camp Blanding Training Site (CBTS) is a Florida Department of Military Affairs Army National Guard facility encompassing 29,500 ha in western Clay County, northeastern Florida. Land use is divided principally among military training, timber management, and support facilities. CBTS supports a diverse though disturbed landscape of upland, palustrine, and lacustrine natural communities, with xeric to mesic pineland communities predominating. CBTS is within or approached by the ranges of at least 40 rare vertebrate species, as well as several rare invertebrates and vascular plants. We conducted a 13-month survey during 1993-1994 to determine the presence and distribution of rare amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals at CBTS, with additional limited aquatic sampling focusing on fishes and one rare crayfish. We observed 18 species of rare vertebrates at CBTS, including substantial populations of the striped newt, gopher frog, gopher tortoise, red-cockaded woodpecker, southeastern American kestrel, Bachman 's sparrow, Florida mouse, and Sherman's fox squirrel. Most of the rare vertebrates at CBTS are members of two communities naturally dominated by longleaf pinesandhills and longleaf pine flatwoodsor the isolated wetlands contained within them. Unfortunately, remaining tracts of longleaf pine are generally in marginal condition as a result of years of fire suppression that have allowed extensive invasion by hardwood species. Appropriate management of these habitats should include their gradual return to uneven-aged forests dominated by longleaf pine, with prescribed growing season fires used to promote native groundcover production while suppressing hardwood encroachment. Despite decades of past land management practices that often have been incompatible with the maintenance of native communities, CBTS nonetheless retains a significant component of biodiversity native to this region. With the adoption of more ecologically sensitive land management, Camp Blanding may be able to serve as a vital link in a potentially integrated and functional network of inland ecosystems throughout the north Florida-south Georgia region.
24319505|Many lines of low and moderate intensity are newly listed and line(Irel=90) does not belong to paravauxite.
24319440|Three salt formulations of endothall (7 oxabicyclo [2.2.1] heptane2,3-dicarboxylic acid) and a combination of diquat (6,7-dihydrodipyrido [1,2; 2, 1-c] pyrazinodiium ion) and chelated copper were placed in test ponds; dihydroxy aluminum salt of endothall and mono (dimathytridecylamine) oxide of endothall resulted in a significant difference in the amount of organic sediment deposited on the bottom.
24320012|Fishes in the littoral zone of McKay Bay, Florida were sampled by seine from May 1977 through August 1978. Weekly collections were made in May and June 1979, following heavy rains. A total of 23,740 individuals representing 15 families and 31 species was collected. Ten species (Menidia peninsulae, Mugil cephalis, Fundulus similis, Anchoa mitchilli, Leiostomus xanthurus, Harengula jaguana, Lagodon rhomboides, Cyprinodon variegatus, Fundulus grandis, and Pogonias cromis) comprised 97.7% of the catch. Individuals were more numerous from late November to early June than in the remaining months. Species richness was greatest in late spring and summer and least in winter. The most abundant species were either permanent bay residents or juvenile migratory forms that utilized McKay Bay as a nursery area from winter through mid-summer. Growth rates of young-of-the-year migratory forms are presented. Reduced salinities in May-June 1979 apparently caused the exodus of juvenile migratory forms and allowed an increase in abundance of permanent residents.
24321060|Passiflora incarnata, a perennial vine common in disturbed sites in central Florida, produces cyanogenic glycosides as a chemical defense against herbivores. The leaves are palatable, however, to specialist herbivore larvae of heliconiine butterflies including Agraulis vanillae. We investigated six different P. incarnata populations from sunny and partly shady sites to determine if this chemical defense is affected by light availability. In addition, we asked whether plants that had experienced herbivory in the field increased the production of cyanogenic glycosides. From each sun and shade population we collected leaves from plants that had previously experienced herbivory and from plants that had little or no evidence of herbivory, for a total of 251 plants sampled. Although there was significant variability in cyanide production among the six populations, it was not related to light environment. In addition to assaying for cyanide production, we asked whether the performance of Agraulis vanillae is affected by either the site of origin or previous herbivory experienced by P. incarnata. There was some evidence that sun and shade populations have different chemical responses to previous herbivory. Caterpillars tended to eat a greater amount of leaf tissue from branches that had not previously experienced herbivory with this difference being greatest in sun leaves. Caterpillar growth rate, however, was not affected by light availability or previous herbivory.
24321553|The 2006 Central Florida wildfires were investigated using the Fire Area Simulator. The goals of this research were to implement and configure the model, to conduct case studies such as the Areca Palm fire, and to evaluate how this model can be adapted to assist in preventing emergencies in central Florida. The model is a two-dimensional deterministic model for spatial and temporal fire growth. The model validation was focused on comparing observations of wildfires burned area in Central Florida to those fields calculated by the model simulated. The simulated result nearly matched the actual Areca Palm fire movement. The sensitivity experiments properly demonstrated how the fire would move if fuels were dry, if there was no wind, as well as with increased rainfall and cloud cover conditions. The results provided a benchmark of the consistency of fuel parameterization in the model within different weather regimes in central Florida. The model results suggest important cost-saving information for those who perform prescribed burns ($5 to $70 an acre to burn) to prevent wildfires ($500 to $1,600 to fight).
24320640|Mature, viviparous seedlings of Rhizophora mangle L. were harvested from a variety of adult trees and subsequently grown under conditions of ambient natural sunlight, UVb-filtered sunlight, and shade to determine the effects of relative levels of UVb/PAR on early root and shoot development. Growth was generally reduced with exposure to UV, with shoot elongation exhibiting the largest treatment differences among all growth indices. The results suggest that open, exposed environments are suboptimal for the early development of R. mangle upon establishment.
24320761|Recent advances in camera technolgy offer the potential for using camera systems to quickly and accurately investigate gopher tortoise (Gopherus polyphemus) burrows. The results of an investigation of two preserve sites are presented here to illustrate the utility of one camera system. The camera system was able to confirm the status of 97 percent of the burrows (n=208). Burrow size did not pose a constraint to investigation. An average of 30 minutes was required to set-up the system, investigate the burrow, and dismantle the system. Compared to burrow activity status assignments based upon observations of the burrow entrance, the camera system observed fewer burrows to be active and more burrows to be abandoned. All burrow commensals encountered by the camera were identified (to major groups in the case of invertebrates). The camera system has demonstrated utility for accurately censusing gopher tortoise and burrow commensals. Indirect tortoise population estimation methods are more appropriate when accuracy is not critical and time is a factor.
24319709|Axenic clones of Lemna minor (L.) were cultured on Hoagland's I medium with and without 0.2, 0.8, and 2.0 ug/ml abscisic acid (ABA). ABA-induced abscission occurs at all concentrations tested. In general, ABA treatment results in an inhibition of growth and an enhancement of senescence during the first 20% of the life span of the plant. The presence of an abscission zone in Lemna is demonstrated for the first time, and the role of ABA as an inducer of abscission in an intact plant system is clearly shown.
24321794|Long term impacts of external pH on the expression of photosynthetic and structural pigments in Schizothrix calcicola have been investigated in order to establish whether the filamentous cyanobacteria biomarker pigment ratio and/or other pigment ratios in S. calcicola vary significantly in the external pH range of 68 pertinent to most freshwater ecosystems. This would also provide clues to the apparent paradox of aquatic cyanobacteria's preference for alkaline external environments despite their preference for the acidic species of inorganic carbon. More robust cell walls in S. calcicola at pH <7 are suggested by significantly greater expression of structural carotenoids, e.g. myxoxanthophylls. Direct and indirect physiological costs of producing and maintaining these more robust cell walls may contribute to S. calcicola's depressed growth at acidic pH. While the cyanobacterial biomarker ratio of chlorophylls to echinenone was stable across the pertinent pH range of 68, other pigment ratios in S. calcicola were affected by pH with an approximately two week lag between the change of pH and the corresponding change of pigment expression.
24320193|Spatial and temporal patterns of variability were examined (April 1982 - June 1983) for 61 species of surf zone fishes (6,611) at beaches in Melbourne and Sebastian, Florida. The three numerically dominant species, Harengula jaguana, Anchoa lyolepis, and Trachinotus carolinus, comprised over 70 % of all individuals. Temporal and spatial variability at several scales were important aspects of the structure of this fish assemblage. Fishes were most abundant seasonally during spring, summer, and fall (2,659) and least abundant during winter (6). Small scale spatial variability was found on beaches adjacent to the jetties at Sebastian Inlet. Both total number of individuals and species significantly decreased (p<0.05) with increasing distance from the jetty structures. Differences in subtidal habitat heterogeneity between Melbourne Beach and the beaches immediately south of Sebastian Inlet may account for the fact that twenty species were collected at the Sebastian sites which were not found at the Melbourne site.
24319694|The number of species in each extant phylum of animals is an excellent example of the hollow curve of distribution. The Arthropoda comprise 80.0% of all living animal species; and 11, or 29.7% of all animal phyla, have less than 100 living species. The 7 classes of the Mollusca are another example of the hollow curve of distribution. The Gastropoda comprise 79.6% of all living species of molluscs and are the only class found in marine, fresh water, and terrestrial habitats. The Monoplacophora are a relict group, and contrary to what Willis believed, relict groups are not rare. The 5 living classes of the Echinodermata are not a typical example of the hollow curve of distribution.
24320452|Monoecious hydrilla [Hydrilla verticillata (L.f.) Royle] from the Potomac River and American eelgrass (Vallisneria americana Michx.) were grown in monoculture and in mixed culture on aquatic sediments of decreasing fertility to assess their ability to compete for nutrients. Biomass yield in hydrilla decreased with decreasing fertility and increased an average of 45 % when grown intermixed with eelgrass. This was interpreted as evidence of within species competition. Biomass yield only decreased in eelgrass when grown on sand, evidence of lower nutrient requirements than hydrilla. Sediment fertility had little effect on nutrient concentrations in tissues, except that concentrations were depressed when plants were grown on sand alone. Reduced growth of hydrilla was not related to tissue concentrations of measured nutrients. Nutrient accumulation in plant tissues was most closely related to dry weight and was greatest in hydrilla. Potassium accumulation in plant tissues exceeded supplies in sediments indicating potassium uptake occurred from ambient water. Sediment potassium concentrations were increased by plant growth in some sediment treatments.
24319499|Grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella) stocked for aquatic weed control in Lake Baldwin were preyed upon by largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides). Shifts from other prey with a selectivity toward grass carp were found. Implications of changes in the predator prey relationship are discussed. Largemouth bass predation is a factor to be considered when stocking grass carp.
24320421|Quantitative samples of semiterrestrial talitrid amphipods were collected monthly, October 1985 through September 1986, at estuarine Lake Wyman in Boca Raton, Florida. Platorchestia platensis, the most common of four talitrid species collected, was most abundant in the supralittoral zone from October to January and in the midlittoral zone from May to September. Ovigerous females were collected throughout year, although the highest ratio of ovigerous to total adult females occurred in September. Adult females outnumbered males each month except February and September.
24320570|The dechlorination potential of an aerobic bacterial species of Alcaligenes for Aroclor 1242 PCB has been investigated. GC-MS analysis of the dechlorinated products revealed that dechlorination was most effective for the tri- and tetrachloro derivatives and not significant for the penta- and hexachloro derivatives.
24321051|Serenoa repens (Arecaceae) can be found in two distinct color forms: green and "silver." The green form is common throughout the state in pine flatwoods and other upland communities, while the silver form is confined to narrow belts along Florida's Atlantic coast and central ridge. To determine the basis for this color difference we examined the epicuticular wax pattern on the leaf surface, using scanning electron microscopy. We found that in the green form the epicuticular wax formed thin, flat, peeling sheets, while in the silver form the wax formed in thick, irregular patches of fused rod-like extrusions. This striking difference in epicuticular wax accounts for the color difference, but the ecological significance of this feature remains unknown.
24320498|The hydrology, geology, history and vegetation of the Blowing Rocks Preserve is described and the natural plant communities mapped and characterized. The vascular flora of the Preserve consists of 233 species representing 75 families. At least 13 plant species that are endangered, threatened, rare, commercially exploited, or species of special concern were found within the Preserve and at least four species of sea turtles (green, loggerhead, hawksbill, and leatherback) nest on the northern beach.
24320326|A computer simulation model developed to study light attenuation in the ocean was applied to clear, medium turbid and turbid waters under diverse conditions. The model theory is based upon multiple small angle scattering of photons by hydrosols and molecules, and includes the effects of absorption. Results show a striking difference between clear and turbid waters and demonstrate the strong dependence of transmittance on turbidity.
24321075|Lead-isotope ratio measurements of galena samples from three prehistoric archaeological sites in south Florida indicate a close similarity to the isotopic ratios of galena deposits in southeast Missouri. The isotopic provenance determinations provide supporting evidence for the acquisition by native peoples in Florida of exotic materials from distant locations via trade networks.
24321224|In 2000, Big Cypress National Preserve, Florida, took a large step toward managing off-road vehicles (ORVs) for the preservation of natural resources, culminating in publication of a new ORV management plan. This paper describes events and conditions that led the National Park Service to develop the new plan. Photographic images, trail mapping, hydrologie conditions, legislation, and the advent of new technologies are discussed as rationale for restricting the level that ORVs have traditionally been allowed in the first twenty-six years of the preserve's existence.
24320339|Investigation of chlorinated pesticides and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in samples of water and sediment were made near sewage and power plant outfalls, freshwater tributaries, and agricultural runoff canals located along the Indian River between Vera Beach and St. Lucie Inlet. Chlorinated pesticide residues and PCB were not detected in surface water samples. Concentrations of several compounds such as DDT and PCB (Aroclor 1254) were low in sediment samples (<0.1 ppm), although they were detected at least once in most samples. The persistence of malathion and parathion decreased with increasing pH and salinity. When temp was above 26C and salinity above 20 ppt, hydrolysis was the predominant pathway of degradation of malathion and biological interaction was the most significant pathway of degradation for parathion. Industrial chemicals such as trichloroethylene and other volatile organic compounds are currently being monitored in the Main Relief Canal and Indian River at Vero Beach. Background levels of trichloroethylene were low in both water and sediment samples (<0.1 ppb and  0.5 ppb, respectively).
24319612|Halichoeres poeyi is recorded from the Gulf of Mexico and its presence is attributed to the transport of pelagic eggs and larvae from more southerly populations; and H. radiatus is now known to occur at Destin, Florida perhaps by recruitment of individuals from offshore reefs. A second Gulf locality for Oostethus lineatus and a second specimen of Corniger spinosus are also reported.
24321109|The prerequisite for an inquiry into the biogeography of the Georgia barrier islands is an understanding of the geology of the area, including the time and degree of isolation experienced by each island. Although precise data are lacking, there is no evidence to suggest that recent fluctuations of rising sea level have completely inundated any of the Pleistocene core islands. Recently, two papers addressed the biogeography of the Georgia Sea Islands and referred to "different aged islands" (Laerm et al., 1999 and Laerm et al., 2000). The authors mentioned Hoyt's (1968) description of Georgia sea island development, but never gave further consideration as to how that information impinged upon present species occurrences. Without specifically stating it, the authors apparently assumed that all islands were uninhabited (had been inundated) and that the present faunal assemblages are a result solely of each species' ability to colonize across sea water. We disagree with this interpretation and suggest that most of the amphibian and reptile species presently occurring on the larger Pleistocene-core Georgia barrier islands are relict populations that were resident when isolation occurred 4,000 to 5,000 years ago. We present information on the geological and biological history of the islands, examine environmental aspects affecting the herpetofaunas, offer a different hypothesis on the herpetological colonization of the Holocene islands, and correct species misidentifications, incorrect citations, and other mistakes in the Laerm and co-workers' papers.
24319775|Interviews were conducted with parents of chronically-ill children, both within a clinical setting and in their homes. An interest in the coping strategies utilized by such problem families was pursued. A plan for intervention in the form of a self-help-oriented parent's group within the clinic setting is proposed. The group is intended to provide a formal and direct line of communication between parents and clinic personnel. The concept behind the project is interpreted as advocacy anthropology and the function of the anthropologist within the group is considered to be catalytic.
24319466|The large male taken measures 34.6 mm carapace length and 161 mm total.
24320087|Sixty-six species of benthic algae are recorded as epiphytes on the 4 species of seagrasses that form extensive beds in the Anclote estuary near Tarpon Springs, Florida Gulf coast. Monthly field observations and collections were made at 6 representative stations from January to September, 1971. About 65% of all benthic algae that grow attached in the area occur as seagrass epiphytes. Ceramium byssoideum fa. alternatum is newly described.
24321469|We report the species accumulation rate and spatial activity zones of a mostly exotic herpetofauna in a new residential development in southern Florida. Ten species of a possible 24 exotic species were detected in the development in contrast to only five species of a potential 61 native species. In light of the disturbed nature of the pre-exsiting habitat and high vagility of these exotic species we conclude that new residential developments built in disturbed habitats can bring with them a time-saving dimension to exotic species colonization, whereby exotic species-friendly habitat is enhanced through development on land in which the seeds of an exotic herpetofaunal community are already present.
24320164|The Chadwick Beach cotton mouse appears to be extinct. The known specimens were from the coastal forest and adjacent grasslands of Manasota Key. This habitat has been heavily impacted by construction of human residences. However, a mechanism that would have made the remaining woodlots uninhabitable for cotton mice has not been demonstrated.
24320758|I conducted a series of experiments on the effects of azadirachtin (AZA) on tadpoles of the oak toad, Bufo quercicus. These are the first data available on the effects of this pesticide on an amphibian species. LC50 values (96-hr) for various developmental stages exposed to 0.5 mg/L AZA were as follows: 4.41 (stage 12), 4.39 (stage 16), 6.12 (20), 11.34 (24), and 19.62 (30). Percent mortality of various larval developmental stages increased with increasing concentrations of AZA. The highest mortality rate (44%) was recorded for stage 12 tadpoles exposed to 0.50 mg/L AZA. An AZA concentration of 0.30 mg/L had no significant effect on mortality for any developmental stage. Exposure to concentrations of 0.40 and 0.50 mg/L AZA resulted in a significant decrease in percent fertilization success of B. quercicus eggs, and a marked reduction in swimming speed of stage 24 tadpoles. At a concentration of 0.50 mg/L, food consumption by stage 24 tadpoles was significantly reduced. The potential hazard to amphibian populations posed by neem-based compounds is discussed.
24319989|A Sewage Treatment and Bioeffects Laboratory, located in southeast Florida, is described and water quality characteristics of the seawater-diluted wastewaters are compared with reported levels lethal to marine organisms. The laboratory processed incoming untreated (raw) wastewater and yielded six different effluents: primary settled, chemical flocculation, and activated sludge biological secondary settled, each chlorinated and non-chlorinated. Several water quality characteristics of the incoming untreated and biological secondary treated effluent were similar to those of a local sewage treatment plant using ocean outfall disposal. Effluent water quality was monitored for nutrients (NH3, NO2-, NO3-, and PO43-), toxic metals (Cd, Cr, Cu, Pb, and Zn) and synthetic organics (chlorinated pesticides, aldrin, DDE, DDD, DDT, dieldrin, heptachlor epoxide, endrin; polychlorinated biphenyls, Aroclor 1016, 1242, 1254, 1260; and phthalic acid esters, butylbenzyl, butylglycolbutyl, di-butyl, di-ethylhexyl, di-ethyl, di-isobutyl and di-methyl phthalate) using standard analytical techniques. Estimated ambient concentrations of nutrients, toxic metals and synthetic organic compounds, after a 30-fold dilution of primary settled wastewater with seawater, fell below reported levels lethal to marine organisms.
24319748|Observed and calculated X-ray power diffraction patterns are presented for lithiophilite and these should serve as a better reference for identification than data currently in the literature.
24321116|An annotated bibliography of recent developments in selenium remediation is given. Although many different approaches are considered, the most important processes concerning selenium removal from contaminated soils and waters appear to be microbial-induced chemical reactions that transform the existing selenium species into volatile compounds and accumulation by certain plants.
24320412|Rain volume and chemistry monitoring as part of the Kennedy Space Center Long Term Environmental Monitoring Program included the years 1984-1987 as part of the National Atmospheric Deposition Program. Atmospheric deposition in rainfall consisted primarily of seasalt and hydrogen ion, sulfate, nitrate, and ammonium ions. The deposition of nitrogen (a principal plant nutrient) was on the order of 200-300 metric tons per year to the surface waters.
24312042|A sexually mature male Feresa attenuata 207 cm long was discovered alive and taken to the Miami Seaquarium for treatment. Measurements and blood test results were recorded from this first specimen recorded for Florida.
24320736|A total of 32 scaled chrysophytes (20 Mallomonas spp, 7 Synura spp, 2 Spiniferomonas spp and 2 Paraphysomonas spp and 1 Chrysosphaerella sp) in 19 waterbodies from six north-central Florida counties were recorded using TEM. The number of taxa per location varied from 0 to 10. Seven taxa, Mallomonas corcontica, M. dickii, M. elongata, M. leboimei, M. schwemmlei, Synura mammillosa and Chrysosphaerella coronacircumspina, are new records from Florida.
24321184|The herpetofauna of an old-growth southern ridge sandhill site heavily invaded by species from adjacent sand pine scrub was monitored over a 15-year period beginning 52 years after the last fire. Twenty-two species of amphibians and reptiles were captured or observed on a 0.16-ha pitfall grid, and an additional seven species were recorded in similar habitat nearby. The two most frequently captured reptiles (Sceloporus woodi, Cnemidophorus sexlineatus) were xeric-adapted species most characteristic of sandhill habitats burned at normal 110 year intervals, and four other xeric-adapted species (Eumeces egregius lividus, Neoseps reynoldsi, Stilosoma extenuatum, Tantilla r. relicta) accounted for a combined 18.2% of all individuals captured during the study. Species richness and diversity were comparable to more frequently burned sandhill sites, and the only significant trend in the 15-year interval was a modest increase in overall diversity in 198488 and 1994 compared with 197983. Community similarity differed little between time periods. Xeric-adapted species were found in shrub-free openings in greater proportion that expected, and limited data on movements suggested that the large-bodied cursorial xeric species had relatively large home ranges incorporating multiple openings whereas smaller fossorial species had smaller home ranges including single or closely adjacent open patches. The results point to the presence of openings with sparse or no shrub cover as the critical factor allowing persistence of the xeric-specialists in the long unburned site. Consequently, where sandhill or other xeric habitats are developing uniformly dense woody cover and where conditions preclude burning either temporarily or permanently creation of openings by mechanical and/or chemical methods may be an effective management tool for maintaining viable populations of the herpetofauna and other biota characteristic of these habitats.
24321133|Color infrared (CIR) aerial photographs were used to map alligator holes in a 2,442 km2 area (Water Conservation Area 3) of the Everglades. Open-water ponds appeared as clearly defined black spots on the photographs. Three types of alligator holes were identified based on differing CIR signatures: Type 1 holes were encircled by a bright red ring indicating a surrounding zone of woody vegetation (small trees and shrubs); Type 2 holes were not surrounded by a change in pixel brightness or tone, indicating a round open water pond within the existing vegetation matrix without a surrounding ring of woody vegetation; and Type 3 holes were immediately adjacent to elongated red ovals (small tree islands) formed from the construction of spoil banks and are termed "artificial holes." Eight hundred forty-five alligator holes greater than 5 m in diameter were mapped, including 309 Type 1, 331 Type 2, and 205 Type 3 holes. These alligator holes ranged from five to 15 m in diameter and 20 to 150 cm deeper than the surrounding marsh (n = 49). Based on the ground-truthing of 89 mapped alligator holes, 88 percent were successfully located in the field, 83 percent were correctly characterized, and the holes were found within 60 m, on average, of their map coordinates.
24319925|A seismic refraction profile trending northwest-southeast and extending approximately 50 km from Newberry (Alachua County) to Lowell (Marion County), Florida was conducted with quarry blasts as energy sources and portable earthquake seismographs as detectors. The travel time data limited the analysis to a simple 2 layer model with an upper unit velocity of 3.66  0.25 km/sec and a lower unit velocity of 6.25  0.15 km/sec. The upper layer is interpreted to represent the Coastal Plain and underlying Paleozoic sedimentary rock sequence, while the lower layer is considered representative of crystalline basement such as the granitic Avalon Complex. A depth of 3.50  0.2 km is computed for the interface, closely approximating previously published estimates based on gravity data.
24320772|At a sea turtle nesting beach in Boca Raton, Florida, all nests are covered with a wire cage to protect the eggs from beach traffic and predators. The front panel of the cage (facing the ocean) is of larger mesh that allows hatchlings to escape. In this study we determined if cages impede hatchling migration. No effect was apparent at dark beach sites but at illuminated beach areas, hatchlings crawled toward lights behind the beach rather than toward the ocean, and were trapped within the cage. Trapped turtles eventually escaped, either later that evening (as lighting was reduced toward midnight) or at dawn (as natural levels of background illumination increased). However at night, enough lighting remained to attract turtles after they left the cage. At dawn, escaped hatchlings crawled to the sea but were probably vulnerable to visual predators. We conclude that at urban sites exposed to luminaires, cage use compromises hatchling survival. Thus at urban rookeries, caging is only effective if coupled with efforts to eliminate beach-front lighting.
24321415|A total of 10 species of mosquitoes was collected in dry ice-baited light traps on Boot Key, Florida. Collections were made in 1999 and from 2005 to 2007. These appear to be the only published records of mosquitoes from Boot Key.
24321554|The Orinoco Sailfin Catfish (Pterygoplichthys multiradiatus), first discovered in Florida in 1981, has become one of Florida's more successful exotic fishes in terms of their abundance and distribution. This paper provides data collected from 1997 through 2008 to monitor changes in abundance of Orinoco Sailfin and other fishes in southeast Florida canals; and, it also provides information on their food habits, fecundity, lower lethal temperature, and socioeconomic impacts. We also include information regarding the current status of two similar loricariids (Vermiculated Sailfin, P. disjunctivus and Suckermouth Catfish, Hypostomus sp.) which are also established in Florida. Based on these data we conclude that Orinoco Sailfin Catfish have not had major detrimental effects on the principal native fishes in southeast Florida canals.
24319876|X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS or ESCA) has been employed to determine the relative dispersion of a series of alumina and carbon supported platinum and palladium catalysts. The metal/support ratio (R) as determined by measuring the intensities of selected photoelectron lines (eg. Pt(4d5/2) and Al(2s)) is related to the extent of metal dispersion. If the relationship between R and the metal loading (weight %) is linear and passes through the origin, the relative dispersion of the series is equivalent. Evaluation of R for a standard series of catalysts provides a means for screening the activity of a catalyst.
24319486|Fishes along the beaches of Pinellas County, Florida, were sampled by beach seine during 1970 and 1971. A total of 228,667 individuals representing 30 families and 62 species was collected. Individuals were most abundant in April and September and least abundant in January and February. Several species were more numerous in July through September than in the remaining months. Species diversities fluctuated throughout the year. Ten species (Harengula jaguana, Anchoa hepsetus, A. mitchilli, Menidia beryllina, Menticirrhus littoralis, Opisthonema oglinum, Menticirrhus focaliger, Trachinotus carolinus, T. falcatus, and A. cubana) comprised 97.7% of the total number of individuals. The fishes were relatively small; most individuals were less than 100 mm total length.
24320952|Typha, a genus with widespread distribution in the United States, is a nuisance aquatic plant because of its ability to take over marshes and other freshwater environments usually to the extent of becoming monospecific. Many physiological characteristics contribute to this opportunistic invasion (size, growth habits, etc.) but release of allelopathic compounds into its surroundings seems to be an important mechanism in the encroaching of cattails at the expense of other plants. This annotated bibliography summarizes the chemistry of Phytotoxins produced by cattails, Typha spp. and release of Phytotoxins into the environment as the key to understanding its allelopathic behavior.
24319569|Colonial animals comprise slightly less than 1.0% of all of the extant species of animals and are restricted to a marine or fresh-water environment.
24321674|Phototaxis of zooplankton in the Indian River Lagoon (IRL) was investigated using light traps. Traps were deployed on two occasions, with six narrow bandwidth spectra supplied by light emitting diodes (LEDs: white, UV, blue, green, yellow and red). Simultaneous replicated plankton tows were collected from the nearby water column for comparison. Taxa found only in light traps included cumaceans, caprellid amphipods, isopods, planulae and larval fish, including juvenile flatfish and pipefish. Mysid shrimps (Mysidiopsis spp.), cumaceans (Cyclaspis sp.), megalopae (Rhithropanopeus harrisii), crab zoeae (R. harrisii), cyprids (likely Balanus eburneus), and gastropod veligers (unidentified species) showed significant positive phototactic responses. Phototaxis was species-specific, although all responding species responded to green light (peak transmission 501 nm). Response distance estimates ranged from 1.53 to 3.23 m and differed based upon species, habitat (water column vs. benthos) and color of light. Demersal (benthic) responders were estimated to come from shorter distances than planktonic organisms.
24320099|Chemical, physical and biological composition of the secondary effluents from municipal treatment plants is reviewed.
24319559|Aquatic macrophytic vegetation and chlorophyll content of phytoplankton were studied in two natural ponds, a natural lake and a borrow pit to determine effects of grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella Val.) introduction. Macrophytes were reduced in all study areas after grass carp introduction and several native species were eliminated although they remained where protected from grass carp. Chlorophyll a, b, and c content increased although generic richness of phytoplankton declined after introduction.
24321720|The hypothesis that the lure of a batfish emits chemical attractants to attract carnivorous, scavenging gastropod prey was tested for the polka-dot batfish Ogcocephalus cubifrons, on Nassarius vibex, a common gastropod that emerges from the substrate to scavenge. Water samples collected from the anterior region of actively luring batfish quickly elicited an emergence response from the snails, whereas samples taken from the same region of non-luring batfish elicited only a minimal response. The results provide the first experimental evidence of the presence of a chemical attractant which may be utilized by O. cubifrons to attract N. vibex. as well as other gastropod prey species.
24321823|This report summarizes the results of a geologic investigation designed to identify the factors responsible for the accumulation and preservation of a late Pleistocene coastal bone bed discovered during habitat restoration at the Pine Island Conservation Area (PICA), Brevard County, Florida. Paleo-environmental analysis of subsurface data suggests these processes were initiated subsequent to the 125 ka (thousand years before present) sea-level high stand as sea level lowered by more than 100 m. During this interval, the shell-rich sediments which had accumulated along the paleo-Atlantic shoreline of PICA were subject to intervals of dissolution and cementation. This led to the formation of coquina (shelly limestone) and a karst landscape replete with sinkholes and other dissolution features. Faunal remains accumulating in these depressions were less likely to be disturbed by the sub-aerial process of weathering and erosion. Their preservation potential was further enhanced when submerged by anoxic groundwater during the subsequent rise in Holocene sea level. The coquina at PICA is part of the Anastasia Formation, which has been mapped along much of the east Florida coast. So too have other late Pleistocene coastal bone beds and thus their formation and preservation may have been facilitated by the same geologic processes proposed at PICA.
24320325|Shoal grass, Halodule wrightii Aschers, is the dominant species of submerged marine vascular hydrophyte in the Indian River Estuary, Florida. Dissolved oxygen, temperature, salinity, pH, and redox potential or Eh measured over time gave evidence that shoal grass has resiliency and stability in the face of a major storm. Copper uptake by Halodule leaves was measured, and translocation of Cu through the plant to roots occurred. Monitoring of Cu in nearshore seagrass communities will directly reflect any abnormal amounts of metal into these systems.
44113157|Florida cattle ranches provide important habitat for the Florida panther (Puma concolor coryi), but rancher support of panther recovery efforts is influenced by the real and perceived risks that panthers present to livestock. Understanding rancher's attitudes towards panther recovery and potential compensation programs for livestock loss are important components of panther recovery efforts. We conducted a survey of Florida ranchers to: (1) evaluate the perceived risk of panthers and other predators; (2) evaluate perceived calf loss trends; (3) measure support for panther recovery; (4) measure support for different types of compensation and payment for ecosystem services programs; and (5) evaluate what factors influence support for those programs. We designed an Internet survey and administered surveys to Florida cattle ranchers through emails sent out by the Florida Farm Bureau and the University of Florida Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences livestock extension agents. Although results of the survey should be interpreted with caution due to low response rate, the majority of respondents supported panther recovery efforts, believed coyotes (Canis latrans) posed the greatest risk to calves, reported a yearly average calf loss of 5%, and indicated preference for a program that provided direct payments for calf loss to panthers.
24319609|Composition and derivation of the North American freshwater fish fauna is reviewed with reference to new fossil discoveries. Acceptance of the theory of continental drift has changed ideas regarding the derivation of this fauna and its relationship to that of Central and South America. Composition of the North American fish fauna is markedly different east and west of the Continental Divide north of the Mexican Plateau, although this difference was less pronounced before renewed uplifting of the Rocky Mountains began about 20 million yr ago, and several families now restricted to eastern drainages are known as fossils from western drainage areas. Six faunistic groups are defined and discussed in reference to origin of the extant fauna.
24320550|Limited data are available on the effects of the December, 1989 freeze on fishes of Indian River Lagoon, Florida. Air and water temperature data for this event are compared with data from 3 prior freezes in the last 2 decades. While air temperatures were clearly lower in 1989, water temperatures did not reach the extremes of previous events. Collection records for Rivulus marmoratus, a tropical killifish inhabiting high marsh habitats along Indian River Lagoon in Brevard and Indian River Counties, are compared before and after the 1989 freeze. An apparent impact on R. marmoratus populations is documented. Additional collection records are cited on both coasts of the state, adding to the distribution records for this little-known species.
24321563|The purposes of this study were to create an updated vegetation map for Florida and to measure land use change over a 1418 year period. We used Landsat Enhanced Thematic Mapper+ satellite imagery from 2003 to map Florida vegetation and land cover. We then compared the 2003 data with an earlier digital data set derived from 198589 Landsat imagery. About 611,845 ha of natural and semi-natural cover types were converted to urban or other developed uses, and 703,292 ha were converted to agricultural uses. About 355,437 ha of agricultural and pasture lands were converted to urban or developed uses over this 1418 year period. Pinelands experienced the greatest decline in total area with about 243,508 ha having been converted to other uses. Dry prairie experienced the greatest decline in percent area with about 25% of the area existing in 198589 converted to urban, developed, or agricultural uses by 2003. Upland cover types experienced greater declines than wetland types over the study period. Natural and semi-natural cover types were lost at a rate of 73,06393,938 ha per year, and agricultural lands declined at a rate of 19,74625,388 ha per year over this period.
24321207|Studies were conducted to assess the effect of group living early in life on brain development (cortical depth), locomotor activity, and spatial learning in males of Ochrotomys nuttalli, as compared to animals (single family groups, SFG) whose mothers had litters comprised of only one offspring and who only had contact with their maternal parent. Animals reared with related and unrelated adults and young (multiple family groups, MFG) were born in nests containing from 68 individuals and were thus exposed to a more complex early rearing environment with an increased variety of olfactory, visual, and tactile cues. There was a significant effect of environmental complexity on body weight, brain weight, and cortical thickness (at 3 months of age) between the single and multiple family groups. Subjects from the MFG exhibited a significantly higher level of running wheel activity as compared to SFG subjects. In addition, MFG animals showed a significantly improved level of performance in spatial learning ability in an 8-arm radial maze.
24320969|In Florida, female southeastern myotis (Myotis austroriparius) typically bear and rear their young in large maternity colonies in select caves. Because these maternity caves are rare and southeastern myotis females congregate in them each spring and summer, protection of the caves is important to the conservation of this species. Southeastern myotis maternity colonies have been reported from at least 19 Florida caves, but in 1991 and 1992 we found maternity colonies in 9 caves containing approximately 319,000 adults. Previous surveys found maternity roosts almost exclusively over water, but bats roosted over water in only 3 caves during our survey. Most caves showed evidence of past flooding, but risk of flooding was not significantly correlated with presence of maternity colonies. Of the 10 maternity caves we found unoccupied, all but 1 had entrances closed by landowners, the surrounding forest cleared, or showed evidence of vandalism. Failure of a roost to produce volant young was significantly associated with vandalism in caves. We suspect maternity colonies moved to new roosts following disturbance in their preferred caves, but lack of regular surveys and the potential movement of bats among caves precluded accurate assessments of trends in the number of occupied maternity caves or size of the maternity colonies. Our data suggest that the number of Florida caves that are both undisturbed by humans and suitable as maternity roosts for southeastern myotis is decreasing. We recommend that current and former maternity caves be protected from vandalism and that access into the caves be restricted during the maternity season.
24320734|The Florida dairy industry consists of 180,000 cows located on fewer than 300 farms. Most farms have 300500 cows while most dairy cows in the state are concentrated on farms with over 1000 cows. These confined animal operations produce large amounts of waste in manure and each farm must have a means of storing and utilizing it safely. In 1993, the Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences at the University of Florida conducted a statewide survey of 66 dairy farmers to determine how many were managing waste using best management practices. We found that most dairies in the state do not monitor the amount of waste that is generated or disposed of on the farm. However, depending on the size and location of the dairy, the majority of cows in the state are located on farms that utilize BMPs.
24320739|The collection of two A. jamaicensis on Key West, Monroe County, Florida, an adult female on June 1, 1995 and an immature female on March 23, 1996, provides the first well-documented record of Artibeus jamaicensis in the United States. A review of the cumulative evidence suggests that Artibeus jamaicensis is established in Lower Keys of Florida.
24319577|After a predator fish (Esox niger) was stocked in a 0.23 ha New Jersey pond, there occurred a decrease in population size and standing crop of bluegill (Lepomis macrochirus), an increase in abundance and standing crop of largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides), and an increase in the potential harvestability of the fish community. Schumacher-Eschmeyer population estimates for bluegill indicated a 72.9% decrease in abundance 1 yr after stocking chain pickerel (Esox niger). At the same time, largemouth bass increased 22.2% in abundance. Standing crop of bluegill decreased 49.2%; that of the largemouth bass increased 24.4%. Biological balance (F/C) decreased from 9.5 - 2.1 and potential harvestability (At) increased from 38.1 - 76.5% from 1970 to 1972.
24320517|This article describes the use of a soil vacuum extraction (SVE) as an engineering control to limit worker exposure to volatile chemicals; the method was applied during the excavation of contaminated soils. SVE was used at a manufacturing facility located in the subtropics during the construction of a concrete spill containment area. During the initial phase of construction, workers uncovered contaminated soils that released elevated concentrations of volatile organic chemicals and hydrogen sulfide gases. Under normal conditions, personal protection equipment that deliver either bottled or clean ambient air would have been used by site workers to complete construction. In contrast, soil gases were intercepted with wells that were screened above the water table, pumped through an explosion proof blower, and discharged downwind. As a result, gas concentrations were dramatically reduced and the work was completed without the aid of respiratory equipment.
24319882|An automated turbidimetric method for analysis of sulfate in saline water samples was evaluated. Dilution of samples to yield a salinity of 1  or less was required to eliminate ionic strength effects. The initial concentration of a saline sample requiring 1:100 dilution cannot be < 1000 mg liter-1 SO4-2 (10 mM), for a precision of 2-5% and an accuracy of 2-5%. The limit of detection, expressed as initial concentration of sample to be diluted 1:100, was 150 mg liter-1 SO4-2 (1.6mM). The method requires only 100 l of saline porewater or seawater. Fifty samples can be analyzed in an 8-hr day with 2 replicates per sample and 3 standard curves.
24319865|A brief summary of the Florida Scientist and the predecessor volumes is given. Three changes in name have occurred, and there have been 13 editors in fifty years.
24319607|Statements made at the U. N. Sixth Special Session, April, 1974, were coded according to the general causes for world economic problems mentioned, and for the solutions proposed. Existence of a Third World Consensus was then tested by comparing attitudinal positions against the U. N. categories: developing market economies (developing nations); developed market economies (western nations); and non-market economies (communist nations). Causes mentioned demonstrated significant consensus among developing nations and significant differences between developing and western or Communist nations respectively; differences within the Third World on the basis of economic status were not significant; the same was true of 3 of the 7 general solutions proposed; and 3 of the remaining specific solutions proposed by developing nations differed from proposals by developed nations.
24320488|Stylisma abdita is a rare endemic confined to sandhill and scrub habitats in the Florida peninsula. In much of its range the species is endangered by urbanization. Exact localities are given for the species in the southwestern Florida counties of Collier and Lee, from which areas the species will soon be extirpated. Phenology and species associates are also discussed.
24321069|Two stalagmites from the Florida Caverns at Marianna were dated using uranium series methods (230Th/234U). Both grew rapidly, one 73,000  5,000 years ago, and the other 53,000  7,000 years ago. The ground waters from which they precipitated carried U with different 234U/238U activity ratios, and the two exhibited different initial 230Th/232Th contamination ratios, as revealed by the isochron method of age correction. The times of growth of the Florida Cavern speleothems do not appear to have been governed by glacial and climatic cycles as is the case for those in higher latitudes.
24320673|Clearnose skates, Raja eglanteria, were trawled in 1993 and 1994 from the western Atlantic Ocean off Shackleford Banks, Carteret County, North Carolina. Aspects studied were: age and growth, food, environmental features, body surface areas and several body-organ weight and morphometric relationships. New data expand prior information on this common yet neglected skate. ANOVA analyses, by sex and year, did not substantiate specimens from two populations being sampled. Females were heavier than males and possessed slightly shorter tails than did males, even with increasing total lengths. Female disk widths were slightly smaller than in males. Male surface areas were larger than those of females. Clearnose skates were apparently more active than previously believed. A variety of foods were eaten.
24321197|White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus seminolus) inhabiting the wet prairie and tree island habitats of the Florida Everglades were subjected to a severe flood in the fall and winter of 199495. Water levels in the study area peaked at 1.3 m in January 1995, more than double the 0.6-m level that restricts deer mobility, and forced surviving deer to crowd onto the slightly elevated (1 m) tree islands. Of 51 radio-collared deer (1 year in age) being monitored in Big Cypress National Preserve and Everglades National Park at the onset of flooding in November 1994, 25 (49%) had died by 31 March 1995. Two of the dead deer, a 3-yr-old female and a 2-yr-old male, had symptoms typical of actinomycosis or lumpy jaw, which is manifested clinically by severe osteomyelitis of the mandibles. The disease likely was caused by malnutrition and gum injuries incurred from consuming woody forage on the tree islands to which the deer were confined. These apparent cases of lumpy jaw are the first reported from white-tailed deer in Florida.
24320547|The first specimen of the eastern big-eared bat, Plecotus rafinesquii, taken in southern Florida, was recorded roosting in an old cabin in northeastern Collier County, a short distance south of the Seminole Indian Reservation. It was an adult female, and this occurrence extends the known range of the eastern big-eared bat significantly southward from central Florida to the Big Cypress Swamp region of south-western Florida.
24322139|A high resolution, three-dimensional numerical circulation model with flooding and drying capabilities is used to simulate the Hurricane Charley storm surge in the Charlotte Harbor vicinity. The model-simulated surge is in sufficiently good agreement with observations at four stations for which data exist to allow us to use the model to explain the surge evolution and to account for the inlet breach that occurred at North Captiva Island. Despite Charley being a Saffir-Simpson category 4 hurricane the surge was only of nominal magnitude and hence the damage, while severe, was primarily wind-induced. We explain the relatively small surge on the basis of the direction and speed of approach, the point of landfall to the south of Boca Grande Pass and subsequent translation up the estuary axis, and the collapse of the eye radius as the storm came ashore. These inferences are based on lessons learned from hypothetical hurricane storm surge simulations for Tampa Bay. Under other approach scenarios the potential for hurricane storm surge in the Charlotte Harbor may be catastrophic.
24320335|The St. Lucie Inlet offers a unique opportunity to study the dynamic response oj a coastal tidal inlet to the construction oj an improvement project. A history oj the St. Lucie Inlet has been assembled, and aerial photography is being jlown throughout the project construction. Hydraulic measurements obtained prior to and during project construction document the original inlet conditions, and analysis oj the inlet stability indicates that the St. Lucie Inlet was hydraulically unstable. Construction oj the improvement project is nearing completion. A period oj readjustment will jollow, with the natural forces establishing equilibrium inlet and shoreline configurations.
24319506|Collection of single or multiple cores for the purpose of measuring mud and/or water Eh potentials in estuarine sediments similar to those encountered in northwest Florida estuaries is simplified by new modifications to corer design to reduce fabrication costs and facilitate collection and analysis of samples.
24321465|This study used a self-administered questionnaire (n = 249) to examine factors that affect risk perceptions and acceptance of the American crocodile (Crocodylus acutus) in south Florida. Respondents who expressed negative attitudes toward American crocodiles had the greatest probability of considering the species a high risk to humans. Respondents who believed American crocodiles presented a low risk to humans, and expressed positive attitudes toward the species, had the greatest probability of preferring a stable or increased future crocodile population. Knowledge of American crocodiles was not related to risk perceptions, but may indirectly affect risk perceptions through attitudes toward crocodiles. Demographic variables did not relate to risk perceptions or acceptance of American crocodiles. Results indicate that south Florida residents and visitors who have the potential to encounter an American crocodile generally have low risk perceptions of, favorable attitudes toward, and high acceptance capacity for the species.
24319700|We compared fish populations in Lake Conway, Florida by 3 methods for species abundance, composition, and species diversity. Sampling was from May through September 1976 in both vegetated and man-made beach habitats. Eleven species had strong affinities with vegetation, whereas 7 species were most common on beaches. The ichthyofauna associated with vegetation represents a climax and was more unique, more diverse, more evenly distributed in terms of individuals of each species, and more productive in terms of biomass. Beach fishes represent a seral community which is typified by a less distinct and diverse, but more numerous assemblage.
24319880|Late dry-season removal trapping in several wetland habitats of the southwestern Florida flatwoods caught only Peromyscus gossypinus and Sigmodon hispidus: 1.7 Peromyscus per 100 trap nights in a cypress strand and only 0.2 Sigmodon in both the cypress and a melaleuca swamp. In another melaleuca forest and its adjoining graminoid area, we caught no animals after 600 trap nights. Results suggest poor utilization of melaleuca habitats but do not indicate appreciably greater utilization of associated non-melaleuca habitats.
24320455|Edaphic algae were identified from five soil samples collected at one time from untreated acid sands and from slightly acid sands that had been limed and fertilized. The study methodology, which included culturing and close observations of each isolated species, yielded 17 green algae, 5 blue-green algae, 5 diatoms, and 1 green euglenoid. Numbers of taxa found in the limed and fertilized plots were similar to those found in the untreated soils.
24321910|The Green Iguana (Iguana iguana) is a successful colonizing species of southern Florida where it poses potential threats to both flora (through the spreading of exotic seeds) and fauna (by opportunistically eating eggs). Individuals exploit exotic, flowering plants found in urban areas, which in turn serve to disperse non-native plants. In this study, the home ranges of wild iguanas in southern Florida were estimated using the minimum convex polygon and were compared to literature sources to determine the extent to which these introduced populations could be sources of exotic seed dispersal. The data demonstrated that home range sizes of iguanas in Florida were significantly smaller than those found in their native range, perhaps a response to a nearly predator-free environment and an abundance of food. Although individuals still spread seeds throughout their home range and possibly farther during nest migrations and dispersing young, distances may not be long enough to have impacted nearby natural areas. Green Iguanas may reinforce existing exotic plant populations rather than spread them.
24320950|The southern dusky salamander (Desmognathus auriculatus) was found commonly at the Devil's Millhopper, Alachua County, from the 1950s through the early 1970s. On 12 survey trips between April 1996 and March 1997, no salamanders were found despite intensive sampling. Although the habitat appears ideal for this species, it is now extirpated at this location. Although extensive land use changes have occurred around the site, the cause of the extirpation is unknown.
24321676|Water quality and seagrass data collected from 1990 to 1999 for the Southern Indian River Lagoon (SIRL) were evaluated for a correlative link between water quality and the deep edge of seagrass bed depth and to use water quality at sites with the deepest edge of bed depths to establish water quality targets for protecting and restoring seagrass. Spearman's rank correlation revealed significant relationships between several water quality parameters and deep edge of seagrass bed depth. Color, turbidity, and light attenuation (K) were inversely correlated with edge of bed depth; while salinity and pH were directly correlated. Additionally, light attenuation (K) was significantly (p < 0.001) correlated with turbidity and color. The 25th and 75th percentiles for water quality parameters (associated with seagrass sites supporting the deepest edge of bed depths) were used to establish water quality targets for the SIRL: salinity (28.3 ppt), turbidity (4.6 NTU), color (13 PCU), and K (-1.0 m-1).
24319918|Ground surface populations of scorpions, pseudoscorpions, and opilionids were studied for one year using pitfall traps set in pond pine, sand pine scrub, and flatwoods communities in central Florida. Forty-two scorpions (1 species), 41 pseudoscorpions (5 families and 6 species), and 248 opilionids (2 families and 3 species) were collected.
24321425|The cellulosic material of choice for industrial applications, such as biofuels, has always been acid-pretreated Maize. Using pretreated corn as the substrate in biomass hydrolysis research, not only has adverse environmental effects, but also competes with a major human food source in years of modest harvest. For states in the Southeast, such as Florida, a similar process, where corn is used as the substrate, is far from being economically feasible. Therefore, local crops or agricultural residues, such as sugarcane bagasse, offer a more attractive alternative. The experiment reported here evaluated the cellulose decomposing potential of Thermomonospora fusca, Cellulomonas fimi and Cytophaga hutchinsonii in Vitro, using sugarcane bagasse without pretreatment. Several indicators of degradation, including residue decomposition and total reducing sugars and protein were monitored over a period of one year. Overall, T. fusca outperformed the other two microorganisms. In the T. fusca cultures, 5% more reducing sugars (p < 0.05) and 15% more protein (p < 0.05) were released, compared to the other two microorganisms. The results of this bench-scale study on non-treated sugarcane bagasse are promising with regard to transferring this environmentally friendly process to full-scale field applications.
24321119|Melaleuca quinquenervia and Casuarina spp. invade sawgrass prairies low in occurrence of mycorrhizal infection and nitrogen-fixers. The presence of mycorrhizae associated with roots of M. quinquenervia and Casuarina spp. was investigated in three populations of each species in Everglades National Park, as was the presence of nitrogen-fixing nodules on roots of Casuarina spp.. Both M. quinquenervia and Casuarina spp. were found to be infected by vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (VAM), and Casuarina spp. roots from all sites were nodulated. VAM infection rates did not differ among Casuarina spp. stands, but did differ among M. quinquenervia stands. Casuarina spp. seedlings showed better growth on soils from the interior of the Casuarina spp. stand, than on soils from the surrounding sawgrass prairie. Mycorrhizal associations with M. quinquenervia and Casuarina spp. and Casuarina's ability to fix nitrogen could alter plant community composition in this region.
24320131|While sampling various plant communities in north Florida for clearwing moths (Family Sesiidae) in 1985, using sex-pheromone attractants, three new state records were captured. These are the tree borers, Synanthedon tabaniformis, Synanthedon proxima and Synanthedon castaneae.
24319778|Excavations conducted in a portion of the Fort Brooke site located in downtown Tampa revealed no subsurface structural remains of the fort-period; however, several fort-period artifacts were recovered. These findings, revealed in a context of modern disturbance, provide some substantiation to the evidence available in historical documents. The nature of the archaeological evidence at the site demonstrates the nearby location of the Fort, as well as some of the circumstances of its existence. During the excavations a relatively intact aboriginal shell midden was also encountered. This aboriginal component consisted of lithic tools and debris, along with animal remains and pottery, and it tentatively associated with the late Weeden Island cultural period.
24319929|The relationship between manatees and power plants was investigated at 2 power plants on the Indian River in Brevard County, Florida from January 1978-February 1980. Manatee presence in the power plant effluent zones was correlated with cold air and water temperatures. When air temperatures were below 16C most manatees in the county were found in the effluent zones. Manatees in the effluent zones moved with the wind-blown warm water plume, demonstrating a sensitivity to small changes in water temperature. Some individuals were frequently resighted at 1 plant, while others moved between the 2 plants. Because industrial warm water sources are less reliable than natural warm water refuges, it is recommended that no new artificial warm water effluents be constructed north of the species' traditional winter range.
24321722|Interception records for three exotic snail species are presented. Granodomus lima (Frussac), Caracolus caracolla (L.) and Bulimulus guadalupensis (Bruguire) were intercepted on crushed vehicles entering Florida by barge from Puerto Rico. Other alternate pathways for the introduction of mollusks are discussed.
24321417|The history and properties of RDX (cyclotrimethylenetrinitramine, 1,3,5-trinitro-1,3,5-triazine), a popular high explosive are reviewed and considered as a guide to the removal of this material from Florida soils.
24320390|Three herbaceous species (Lechea deckertii, L. cernua, and Paronychia chartacea) appeared in postbum samples of plots in rosemary scrubs, that were rare or absent in preburn samples of the same plots and were also rare in samples of plots in unburned scrubs. Changes in cover levels with stand age suggest that these species are displaced by the increasing cover of rosemary and reindeer lichens within 9 to 12 years, their populations then being rejuvenated by periodic fires.
24321793|In many mammals with a polygynous mating system in which males compete for access to breeding females, large body size is more important for male than female reproductive success. Sex-differences in the relative size at sexual maturity could result in selection for bimaturation and sexual size dimorphism with females maturing earlier and males being larger. Growth in body length (BL) of free-ranging Florida black bears (Ursus americanus floridanus) was examined with mathematical models to test hypotheses regarding bimaturation and sexual size dimorphism in this polygynous species. Data for 399 females and 615 males indicate that growth in BL fitted the von Bertalanffy model better than Gompertz and Logistic models. Truncating the data revealed that individuals  3 years old affected the maturing index (K) and those older influenced asymptotic body length (BL). Males had smaller K and BL 1.23 times longer than females (p < 0.05) signifying an older age at physiological maturity. Growth was essentially complete after attaining > 90% of BL, a level reached by females at 2 years-of-age about 1.3 years earlier than males. Males grew larger than females before and after female sexual maturity suggesting selection for traits that enhance reproductive success. Females grew more slowly than males after reaching sexual maturity indicating greater energetic expenditure associated with parturition and rearing offspring that constrain body size growth. My models provide a basis for future efforts to assess the food requirements of Florida black bears and to detect warning signs of a population that may be experiencing nutritional stress.
24322462|Natural mortality is a poorly known aspect of fisheries biology, despite its importance in stock assessments and population analysis. Of potential sources of mortality and morbidity in fishes, the effect of internal parasites is perhaps the least studied even though these organisms are known to inhibit nutrient uptake and stimulate an inflammatory response in fish. Parasite taxa of the pelagic elasmobranchs silky and night sharks and pelagic stingray (Carcharhinus falciformis, C. signatus and Pteroplatytrygon violacea), and the mesopelagic teleosts sailfin lancetfish, oilfish, snake mackerel, escolar and Atlantic pomfret (Alepisaurus ferox, Ruvettus pretiosus, Gempylus serpens, Lepidocybium flavobrunneum, and Brama brama) are described from the western North Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico. Parasite taxa included cestodes, trematodes, acanthocephalans, and nematodes. Suggested protocol revisions to current accepted laboratory methods will enhance future parasite taxa descriptions from pelagic marine fishes. This work serves as the first parasite taxa and load descriptions for pelagic stingray, lancetfish, oilfish, snake mackerel, escolar and pomfret.
24320472|Brazilian pepper (Schinus terebinthifolius) has become an aggressive exotic angiosperm competitor in native southern Floridian habitats over the past few decades. Few environmental limitations to growth and reproduction of this problem exotic seem to exist. However, a native parasitic angiosperm, Cassytha filiformis, has been noted parasitizing Schinus terebinthifolius; field observation indicates that this parasite may not necessarily limit Schinus' vegetative growth in height, but may significantly limit its foliage production and reproductive capacity.
24320345|Low altitude aerial photography coupled with groundtruthing, was used to delineate seagrass beds, oyster bars, and other shallow water (<2.5 m) features in 3 contiguous east-coast Florida lagoons. Imagery analysis was used to produce maps, representing 182 km2 of grassbeds, 10km2 of oyster bars, and 16 km2 of dredged areas. Five areas, in 3 contiguous lagoons, were photographed in the spring of 1974 and winter of 1975. The areas and time of year were selected because of increased water clarity. Direct examination of color infrared transparencies over a light table proved to be the most effective method for delineation of submerged features.
24319660|Three hundred and seven measurements of the magnetic field with a proton precession magnetometer in Alachua County, Florida, yielded total intensity values of 50,06751,035 gammas. All values were tied to a single hase station and were corrected for diurnal variations. A regional trend reveals a westward dip of approximately 30 gammas/km and may reflect the flank of the Florida Peninsular Arch. Removal of the regional trend from an isomagnetic surface isolates residual magnetic anomalies ranging from -40 to 120 gammas. Interpretations of the local anomalies suggest mafic dikes and horizontal susceptibility contrasts within the Paleozoic basement rocks of north Florida. These features are consistent with previous concepts of diabase intrusions and graben structures which originated in the Florida basement during the early Mesozoic.
24319544|Nearshore current measurements in 10 m of water off Hutchinson Island on Florida's central east coast were obtained over 40 da. Data analyses reveal independent alongshore and crosshelf systems of subinertial waves superimposed on a weak southward, essentially alongshore mean current. The crosshelf current fluctuations appear to be wind driven, while only the 2-2.8 da along-shore current fluctuations are coherent with windstress.
24319602|The presence of an undescribed troglobitic crayfish in the St. Johns River drainage suggests that endemic populations of Florida troglobites and some fishes may be the result of the same geological phenomena.
24322277|During field surveys in May and June 2004, we confirmed the existence of the non-native butterfly lizard (Leiolepis belliana) in Miami, Miami-Dade County, Florida. We found L. belliana active during the daytime in an area encompassing six square city blocks, where it was observed basking and foraging on open grassy lawns and inhabiting burrows. The population of L. belliana originated from a tropical fish dealer and has been established there since at least 1992. If eradication of the Miami population is desired, it should be attempted while the population remains localized.
24319523|A mass mortality of Luidia senegalensis occurred February 18, 1977 on Captiva Island, Florida. The occurrence of the nine armed sea star in Florida Gulf coastal waters is well documented.
24321786|Gall midges (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae) were collected in light traps from Big Pine Key, Cudjoe Key, Grassy Key, Key Largo, Little Knockemdown Key, Long Point Key, No Name Key, Plantation Key, Raccoon Key, Tavernier, Upper Matecumbe Key, Vaca Key, and Windley Key. Twelve species were identified: Stomatosema trichodera Gagn, Stomatosema dominicensis Gagn, Didactylomyia longimana (Felt), Claspettomyia bidentata Felt, Asynapta cactophila (Samuelson), Endaphis maculans (Barnes), Odontodiplosis americana Felt, Feltiella curtistylus Gagn, Lestodiplosis laticaulis Gagn, Aphidoletes aphidimyza (Rondani), Dicrodiplosis guatemalensis Felt, and Ficiomyia perarticulata Felt.
24320219|Published accounts of seismic events reported in Florida are reported from the time of occupation of the Florida Peninsula to December 1981. Events are cited by date, time and geographic locality. Note is taken that a continuously recording seismograph has been operational since October 1977.
24320241|The seasonal abundances of 39 fish species in electrofishing collections were compared in the Escambia, Choctawhatchee, and Apalachicola rivers of northwest Florida. Relative abundances, as indicated by catch per unit effort of electrofishing, were examined in the Escambia River. Lepisosteus osseus, Dorosoma cepedianum, D. petenense, and Mugil cephalus were abundant during winter and spring high water in all 3 rivers, but seasonal patterns were less distinct in the larger Apalachicola. These seasonal euryhaline fishes and the catostomids contributed the greatest amounts to the fish biomass in the Escambia River. The abundance of Carpiodes cyprinus declined in the fall during low water, despite increased catch rates of other resident fishes. Female C. velifer outnumbered males during summer, but in winter sex ratios approached 1:1. Male C. velifer were more numerous downstream in late summer. A mark-and-recapture study of Moxostoma poecilurum, a dominant resident in the Escambia River, indicated 1095  504 in a 1 km segment of the Escambia River. Lepomis macrochirus and L. megalotis were 2 of the most abundant fishes in the Escambia River.
24321600|As part of a monitoring program to study the distribution of native frogs and toads and the introduced Cuban treefrog (Osteopilus septentrionalis) invasion, PVC pipe refugia were installed along the edge of 24 marsh, cypress, riverine, and borrow pit wetlands at a natural area in Hillsborough County, Florida. From June 2005 through September 2007, observations of 7,237 treefrogs were recorded, which included 673 green treefrog (Hyla cinerea) observations, 945 pinewoods treefrog (Hyla femoralis) observations, 1,530 squirrel treefrog (Hyla squirella) observations, and 4,089 Cuban treefrog observations. Overall, Cuban treefrogs were the most frequently observed species regardless of wetland type and season. Observations of all treefrog species were typically higher during the dry seasons as compared to those for the wet seasons, suggesting that the pipe refugia provided shelter from the dry and cold conditions. Observations of green or pinewoods treefrogs in pipes were not correlated with Cuban treefrog observations. However, there was a negative correlation between the squirrel treefrog observations in the pipes and the observations of Cuban treefrogs, suggesting that squirrel treefrogs were affected by the presence of Cuban treefrogs.
24321232|Construction during March and April of 2004 revealed extensive temporary exposures of the Anastasia Formation two kilometers inland from the Intracoastal Waterway in Boynton Beach, Florida. In addition to typical Anastasia shelly sands and conquioid limestones, the outcrops were characterized by a massive cap rock, 6 to 7 m above sea level, containing numerous solution holes believed to owe their rounding to wave abrasion during a higher stand of the sea.
24320790|A computer program, written in Q-BASIC, generates Maucha diagrams. These can be used to demonstrate significant changes in the relative proportions of eight major ions in lakes and other natural waters. The ionic diagrams are easily generated with minimum inputs with a user-prompting program.
24320992|Fourteen reptile and three amphibian species were present at the Kampong, a four ha tropical garden in Coconut Grove, Dade County, Florida. Only four species were native, indicating that the herpetofauna of the Kampong was an artifact assemblage dominated by exotic species, mostly small-bodied lizards. Eleven of the 13 exotic species present were established and comprised 42% of the terrestrial and arboreal exotic herpetofauna of Dade County. A new species for North America, Mabuya multifasciata (Lacertilia: Scincidae) of southeast Asia was recorded at the Kampong. The herpetofauna of the Kampong reflected the changing herpetofaunal community of southern Florida. The protected nature of the Kampong and recent acquisitions of adjacent land favor the persistence of both native and exotic herpetofauna.
24319664|Xanthic specimens of the speckled hind (Epinephelus drummondhayi) are described from the eastern Gulf of Mexico.
24319651|About 40,000 living species of animals are suspension feeders, comprising 16% of all aquatic species. Of all species of suspension-feeding animals, 43% are likely to be fossilized as compared to only 8% of all species of living animals. Nearly half of all living colonial animals are suspension feeders.
24319606|A small deposit of Quaternary freshwater sediments was trench sampled to analyze the total invertebrate fauna. Five bulk samples were disaggregated by the Amine 220 technique; taxonomic frequencies were adjusted to reflect standing crop; and adjusted data were programmed into standard diversity and equitability indices. A predictable pattern of community succession emerged with earliest environments of high stress and supporting a few eurytopic organisms. Under favorable conditions stenotopic organisms were dominant but as conditions deteriorated, the colonization process was nearly reversed.
24319547|A female longfin mako (Isurus paucus) was found in the surf at Melbourne Beach, Brevard County, Florida, 28 December 1975. This is the first North American record for this circumtropical species and is the first account of a specimen from continental shelf waters anywhere. Pigmentation pattern, pectoral fin length, and comparative jaw examinations with I. oxyrinchus of similar size were used to verify the identification.
24320619|Lyngbya, a cyanophyte, cyanobacterium, invaded the southeastern United States a few years ago. Because of phijsiological characteristics, it has opportunistically invaded a number of lakes, streams, and estuaries. Consequently, it has become a noxious aquatic plant. A considerable portion of the biomass is below the surface throughout the year, and control must inevitably involve sub-surface treatment. The annotated bibliography summarizes pertinent chemistry, biology, physiology, and ecology of Lyngbya spp.
24320303|I describe a method that I find successful for rearing 3 species of Simocephalus (Cladocera) in the laboratory under controlled conditions and present results of tests that demonstrate the effectiveness of the method.
24320260|Sharks are numerically important members of many marine communities, yet little is known of their role in these ecosystems. Recent technical developments in laboratory and field have facilitated investigation of the autecology of the lemon shark Negaprion brevirostris (Poey). This littoral shark is abundant, lives well in captivity and is ideally suited for investigation. Over the past 24 mo we have marked and released 984 young sharks during a study of population dynamics. Each was injected with tetracycline for age validation. We tracked individual sharks for hundreds of km via ultrasonic telemetry thus determining activity rates, movements, home ranges and diel periods. We evaluated blood gas parameters, food intake, digestion, growth, resting and routine metabolism in the laboratory. These data provide estimates of the energy budget of the lemon shark and form a basis for understanding the flow of energy from environment to shark. Our tentative conclusion is that an adult lemon shark must remove nearly 1500 g of fish daily (1.6  106 calories) to account for its vital activities.
24320013|Monthly plankton collections and water analyses were made at 7stations along the lower 42 km of the St. Johns River Estuary for a 2-yr period. Measurements included temperature, light extinction, salinity, dissolved oxygen, chlorophyll, nutrients, iron, copper, turbidity and pH. All of the stations exhibited major peaks in cell numbers and chlorophyll in June or July and secondary peaks in December or January. The total number of distinct population peaks decreased from 4, near the river's mouth, to 2 at the upper stations. Species diversity decreased with distance from the river's mouth, whereas, chlorophyll concentration increased. The chlorophyll concentration was correlated closely with cell counts at most stations. Population density appeared to be most closely correlated with salinity, phosphate, and pH. High N:P ratios occurred throughout the year, suggesting that phosphorus is more limiting than nitrogen in the St. Johns River system.
24320183|During an investigation of terra rossa in south Florida, a chlorite-like mineral was found to be the sole clay mineral present in the soils. The clay has accumulated and/or formed in the porous, well-drained oolitic facies portions of the Miami Limestone, especially on the Atlantic Coastal Ridge. This clay mineral is an aluminous, dioctathedral variety that shows x-ray diffraction characteristics indicative of a pedogenic origin. Previous theories that have been proposed for formation of pedogenic chlorite-like clays are not applicable to this occurrence. Therefore an alternative model, based on carbonate inhibition of gibbsite precipition, is proposed for hydroxyinterlayering of clays in carbonate-rich soils and for the formation of chlorite-like clay minerals in terra rossa.
24321898|This report describes for the first time the pathologic findings associated with mortality in 19 cetaceans (11 Atlantic bottlenose dolphins [Tursiops truncatus], 6 pygmy sperm whales [Kogia breviceps], and 2 short-finned pilot whales [Globicephala macrorhyncus]) which stranded along Florida's Atlantic northeastern coastline between May 2009November 2011. The cause of death could be determined in most necropsied cases, which demonstrates the importance of performing gross and microscopic examinations on freshly stranded marine mammals. Causes of death in decreasing order of frequency were infectious/inflammatory disease, cardiomyopathy, starvation and congenital disease. The primary cause of death in dolphins and pilot whales was infectious/inflammatory disease (n=12) and in pygmy sperm whales cardiomyopathy (n=3). In cases of inflammatory/infectious disease, multisystemic disease was common. The primary inflammatory/infectious disease lesions in decreasing order of frequency were pneumonia (n=9; 75%), gastroenteritis (n=6; 50%), hepatitis (n=3; 25%), meningitis (n=3; 25%), dermatitis/panniculitis (n=3; 25%) and pancreatitis (n=2; 17%). The primary cause of death in both this report and a similar study from the Indian River Lagoon (IRL), FL was similar. However, the prevalence of infectious/inflammatory disease in necropsied bottlenose dolphins in northeastern Florida was higher than that reported from the IRL. The prevalence of cardiomyopathy in pygmy sperm whales was similar to that reported in prior studies from other geographic regions of the eastern United States and Taiwan. Understanding the pathologic features associated with mortality in cetaceans is important for the future management of these species and may provide an insight into the health of the coastal ecosystem from this geographic region of Florida.
24319600|Behavior patterns of the United States Supreme Court during a period of progressive influence were examined. Decision patterns were analyzed by the use of cumulative scaling and the concept of a natural court. Justices appointed by progressive presidents were found in about half the instances not to conform to the expectations placed upon them by their appointer. For a variety of reasons, the progressive justices failed to significantly change the policy dimensions of the Court.
24320206|The type of species of the fossil annelid worm Rotularia Defrance, 1827, is Serpula spirulaea Lamarck, 1818, subsequently designated by Wrigley, 1951. Rotularia vernoni (Richards, 1948) is an excellent index fossil for the top zone of the Ocala Group (Eocene) of peninsular Florida.
24320266|Fossil foraminifera have been identified from the late Pleistocene Miami Limestone and Key Largo Limestone of the Florida Keys. The dominant foraminifera from the olite unit of the Miami Limestone are the same species that occur most commonly in the recent olite deposits of the Great Bahama Bank. The assemblage from the bryozoan unit of the Miami Limestone is typical of the shallow shelf sea behind the Cat Cay olite mounds today on the western edge of the Bahama Banks. The foraminifera of the upper part of the Key Largo Limestone suggest a shallow-water, coral reef deposit in the absence of a protective outer reef.
24319836|Changes in benthic fauna were monitored following excavation of an offshore borrow area in the vicinity of Fort Pierce Inlet, Florida. Sampling stations were established along 2 transects located in the borrow area, 1 control transect north of the borrow area, and 1 control transect south of the borrow area. Results suggest that relatively larger reductions in abundance, but not number of species, of the benthic fauna occurred in the borrow area following dredging as compared with the controls. Therefore the decrease observed appears greater than can be accounted for on the basis of seasonal changes alone. Both parameters returned to pre-dredging levels in from 9-12 months. Species composition, however, was altered in the borrow area and had not returned to the pre-dredging composition after 12 months. It is probable that this species shift is not detrimental in that it resembles the species composition at other undisturbed locations in this region.
24320228|Behavior patterns in West Indian manatees (Trichechus manatus) were observed and evaluated at Blue Lagoon Lake, Miami, Florida. Herd size, location, and time of day were correlated with various activities. Manatee movements were unrelated to tidal conditions. Submergence times of the manatees varied directly with size of the animal, except for female-calf pairs who breathed synchronously, possibly to keep the animals together. Submergence times for each of 3 size classes of manatees decreased with type of activity in the following order: resting, feeding, cruising. Submerged plants were eaten more often than either natant or emergent ones, and Hydrilla verticillata was the most commonly consumed plant.
24321646|Common snook Centropomus undecimalis in Florida are thought to move from open estuarine and coastal marine habitats into rivers during colder months to overwinter; however, this paradigm has never been formally tested. Seasonal electrofishing surveys (20042006) were conducted to determine the distribution, abundance, and size of common snook in the three major rivers leading to the Charlotte Harbor estuary, Florida. Common snook abundance in the tidal freshwater portions of all three rivers was high in spring and summer, and then doubled in fall. In the open estuary, haul seine data (19972007) were used to examine seasonal trends; common snook abundance was significantly lower during winter. No specific size group alone appeared to be involved in these seasonal changes, as length frequencies did not differ between seasons. Although these results provide evidence that a portion of the population moves between the rivers and the open estuary, the reasons for these movements require further study. The strong presence of common snook in the rivers during summer and their peak abundance in fall as opposed to winter, were unexpected and suggest that there may be interactions between their use of freshwater and marine environments that are more complex than previously considered.
24319617|A preliminary survey of the decapod crustaceans of the estuarine waters of Brevard County, on the central east coast of Florida, was made during the summer months of 1971 and the summer and fall of 1972. In all, 44 species and subspecies of decapods were collected from the estuaries and adjacent shorelines, and brief annotations are included for each. A three year summary of salinity and temperature levels occurring in the estuaries is also given.
24312038|Small groups of a rare, hystricomorph rodent, the Bahamian hutia (Geocapromys ingrahami), were studied in captivity. A repertoire of social behavior was determined for the species. Agonistic behavior was generally minimal in established groups except when estrous females were present. Social hierarchies and amicable, cohesive behavior were probably important in minimizing agonistic behavior. The cohesive wrestling behavior of hutias may be unique.
24321099|In January 2003, east-central Florida lagoon water temperatures plunged quickly to 5C. Twenty-nine Chelonia mydas (green turtles) became cold stunned and were found in a comatose-like state in Mosquito Lagoon, Brevard County. The turtles were retrieved from the water, and taken to a facility at the Merritt Island National Wildlife Refuge to warm and protect them from the elements. Researchers recorded retrieval times and locations for each animal. The turtles were examined, photographed and measured. Fifteen of the turtles were afflicted with fibropapillomatosis (FP) disease. The disease manifests as tumors normally on the eyes and fleshy parts of the body. The condition of each individual was documented including the location and size of FP tumors. Ten turtles were transported to a rehabilitation facility due to their advanced stage of FP or their overall health condition; five of these died in transport, at the facility, or their extremely poor condition warranted euthanization. Five days later, the remaining C. mydas were released in Mosquito Lagoon when water temperatures reached 23C. The details of this and previously documented cold stun events in Florida are discussed.
24319730|The diet of the Florida pompano (Trachinotus carolinus) was investigated by examining stomach contents of adults from the Indian River and juveniles from the surf zone off Brevard County. Juveniles consumed primarily benthic crustaceans, mainly Emerita talpoida, and the bivalve, Donax variabilis. The diet of the adults consisted mainly of bivalve molluscs in the families Tellinidae, Mactridae, and Arcidae. In comparison with juveniles, the adults displayed a decrease in the number of planktonic organisms that are selected as prey items. Availability of prey appears to be more important than caloric content of prey in determining the diet of T. carolinus. The diet of adult pompano may be more diverse in those individuals found near the inlet regions of the lagoon. Our findings differ from previous studies that have determined bivalves to be more important in the diet of juvenile Florida pompano and crustaceans to be dominant in the diet of adult Florida pompano.
24320963|Analysis of water and soil samples at six different sites along Delaney Creek in Tampa, Florida, revealed lead contamination of the creek water. This contamination arises from migration of lead from a lead-acid battery disposal site at the junction of U. S. Highway 41 as it flows toward McKay Bay in Hillsborough County, Florida. Water samples from the creek nearest the battery disposal site were found to have a lead level of 2.90  0.36 ppm, and creek bottom sampling detected a lead level at 269  36 mg/kg air dry basis. Lesser levels of lead were found in the creek water up and down stream with 1.92  0.36 ppm in water samples about 100 feet upstream and 1.17  0.36 ppm in water samples about 500 feet downstream from the contamination site, indicating that some lead migration is occurring. At sites further upstream no lead was detected in the creek bottom samples.
24320142|Packed cells from cultures of Ptychodiscus brevis and Nannochloris sp. were analyzed for fatty acids and sterol composition by gas chromatography following conversion to the methyl ester and acetate derivatives, respectively, and comparison with authentic samples. Cholesterol was the major sterol in both algae (ca. 40% of total sterols) but ergosterol (7-dehydrocholesterol) was specific for P. brevis. 23-Methylcholesta-5,22-dien-3-ol and 4-24-dimethyl-5-cholestan-3-ol and dinostanol comprised the rest of the sterol mixture in P. brevis. Stigma-sterol and 28-isofucosterol constituted the remainder of sterols in Nannochloris sp. Nannochloris sp. was distinguished from P. brevis by having C10, C14:1, and C18:4 fatty acids; P. brevis was unique in having a C20:2 fatty acid. Both algae have relative high concentrations of C16 fatty acids: myristic and oleic for P. brevis and Nannochloris sp., respectively. The other fatty acid compositions are described. The significance of ergosterol in P. brevis to an understanding of the mechanism of lysis of P. brevis cells is considered.
24320675|The Old World tropical house gecko (Hemidactylus mabouia) is reported for the first time from the Dry Tortugas where it occurs on buildings and surrounding vegetation of Ft. Jefferson on Garden Key. Its diet included hard and soft-bodied prey of various sizes, including roaches and scorpions. Colonization by this species was subsequent to that of its congener, H. garnotii, which is now nearly absent on Garden Key, but still numerous on Loggerhead Key where it occurs alone. Our findings of species replacement corroborate an assertion that among hemidactyline geckos, only one species remains dominant at a time on buildings in Florida.
24320606|Environmental parameters were quantified to develop a physiognomically based system for describing and predicting gopher tortoise (Gopherus polyphemus) habitat on the Florida Atlantic University Nature Preserve. There were significant correlations among gopher tortoise densities and all physiognomic features except saw palmettos. Some correlations were positive, others were negative. However, the only feature with predictive usefulness was bare ground. Burrows were regularly dispersed and the highest densities occurred in historic wet prairie associations. Tortoises located burrows in areas with less canopy and shrub cover but greater herbaceous cover and more extensive bare ground. If we are to maintain current densities of tortoises on the Preserve, management of exotic vegetation will have to be employed
24321140|Sawfish were once common in the southeastern United States, but became rare during the twentieth century before they were studied. They are protected from harvest in Florida, are considered "at risk of extinction" ' in North America by the American Fisheries Society, and listed as "endangered" by the World Conservation Union. Collections and observations of sawfish in southwest Florida from Charlotte Harbor to northern Florida Bay were documented by soliciting information from anyone who would encounter these fish (e.g., scientists, fishing guides, private citizens). We also circulated a poster (e.g., bait and tackle shops, boat ramps, fishing tournaments) that asked for anyone with any information on these fish since 1990 to contact us (by telephone, mail, or e-mail). Posters were distributed beginning in January 1999 and continue to be maintained from Port Charlotte, Florida (Charlotte County) south to Flamingo, Florida (Monroe County). Each person that had information was asked the same series of questions to determine the date and location of the encounter (collection or observation), estimated total length (ETL), and habitat characteristics. A total of 533 sawfish encounters that occurred between 1990 and 2001 were reported to us. Most sawfish encounters consisted of a single fish caught on hook and line, but groups of 220 similar-sized individuals were also reported. Neonates, juveniles, and sexually mature sawfish were found throughout the study area. These data indicate that the overall sawfish population is larger than previously thought; however, the majority of sawfish documented by this study were most likely sexually immature (89% < 3 m ETL). Thus, we support continued protection and conservation efforts and hope these efforts will allow the remaining sawfish populations to grow throughout their range. This study is the first survey on sawfish in Florida.
24322130|Seagrass species composition and distribution reflect environmental changes, making these measures potentially useful estuarine indicators. An annual seagrass transect and quadrat monitoring survey program including 50 locations in Charlotte Harbor, Florida, began in 1999. This six-year data set was analyzed in conjunction with a monthly water quality monitoring program covering the same time period to examine trends in seagrass species composition and distribution. Analyses of the maximum depth of seagrass distribution for each transect did not indicate any large-scale changes in seagrass depth distribution. This suggests a stable overall area of seagrass distribution in the Charlotte Harbor area during the study period. However, abundance of Halodule wrightii and Thalassia testudinum has significantly declined, along with the overall frequency of seagrass occurrence among quadrats. Finally, the distribution of the three dominant seagrass species, H. wrightii, T. testudinum, and Syringodium filiforme, appear to be influenced by low, wet-season salinity and high variation. This study highlights the value of research into seagrass species abundance and distribution on a meter-to-meter scale to recognize the effects of water quality or environmental variables such as salinity on a small scale, prior to large scale loss.
24320786|The typical relationship between metabolic rate (VO2) and body weight is VO2= aWb. An argument is presented to illustrate that adjustments of observed metabolic rates by division by Wb does not "coorect" metabolic rates for body size. Instead, it adjusts metabolic rate to that of an organism of unit body weight, which is not normally the intent of such mathematical adjustments, and which can lead to misleading interpretations of data. A general equation is presented that will adjust metabolic rate to any desired weight (the mean weight of the sample series is recommended).
24319545|A preliminary investigation was made of the macrobenthos in an enriched (by secondary sewage effluents and urban runoff) east-central Florida lagoon, Sykes Creek, and in other less-enriched parts of the same system. Peterson grab samples were taken at 6 stations in Sykes Creek and at 2 control stations in the Indian and Banana Rivers, once during the summer and once during winter. Sykes Creek stations showed greater temporal variability than did the controls in almost all macrobenthic parameters measured (i.e., species diversity, density, biomass, and species ratio differences). Sykes Creek stations also had decreased species numbers and diversity values and a predominance of opportunistic species.
24319512|Calculated X-ray powder diffraction patterns for the crandallite-goyazite series compare reasonably well with observed patterns and serve to identify minor indexing errors. Minor deviations between the calculated pattern for crandallite and observed patterns are due in part to the prevalence of Sr-substitution in natural crandallite. Intensity variations associated with substitution between Ca and Sr serve as a means of determining specific composition in the crandallite-goyazite series. Computed absolute scale factors allow the calculated patterns to be used in quantitative analysis of crandallite-bearing sediments.
24320703|Historically, the Kissimmee River was a complex braided channel with an extensive floodplain wetland that was channelized and converted to a series of five impoundments by the U. S. Army Corps of Engineers from 1962 through 1971. Restoration of the Kissimmee River system has begun and includes a South Florida Water Management District program to evaluate the success of the restoration and provide input for adaptive management during the recovery of the system. Invertebrate community composition can serve as a useful system attribute for evaluating the success of the Kissimmee River ecosystem restoration project. The research reported here: 1) identifies the regional species pool of aquatic insects that potentially occur in the Kissimmee River Basin; 2) evaluates the process of assigning functional groups based on feeding, habit, and voltinism and using calculated ratios to make assessments of ecosystem attributes. An initial study on partially restored remnant channels of the Kissimmee River indicates that the littoral-floodplain habitats can be readily distinguished from each other on the basis of invertebrate functional relationships. In addition, this organization promises to be a good predictor of general ecosystem attributes such as the autotrophy-heterotrophy index (P/R) and the availability of invertebrate food for wading birds and drift- and benthic-feeding fish.
24320528|In an effort to protect public drinking water supplies, the Florida Legislature enacted the "State Underground Petroleum Environmental Response Act" of 1986 (SUPER Act). This bill created a trust fund which provides monies for the state to conduct site rehabilitation projects or for reimbursement to persons who have voluntarily or through negotiated enforcement cleaned up their sites. Participation in the program is encouraged by the establishment of a grace period (July 1, 1986-December 31, 1988) during which owners or operators of petroleum storage systems that report suspected contamination will not be held liable for the costs of restoring their sites. More than 9,000 applications were received during the 30 month grace period. Rules covering the order of site cleanup and reimbursement, establishing cleanup guidelines, and providing for reimbursement of reasonable costs have been adopted by the Environmental Regulation Commission.
24319562|Movement and attachment of labeled curly-top virus (CTV) in resistant and susceptible pepper seedlings were investigated by macro and micro autoradiography. The 35S label remained localized in the tissues where the insect vector was feeding and the cytidine-5-3H label indicated virus transport in the phloem and 2 hr after inoculation appears to be attached to the nuclei of phloem parenchyma in both resistant and susceptible peppers. pH in plant tissues and body fluid and saliva of the insect vector is the major factor regulating stability of nucleocapsids and infectious and non-infectious forms of CTV.
24321431|Fifty epiphytic algal species on the seagrass Halodule wrightii in Hillsborough Bay, Florida, were identified based on spring, summer, and autumn collections between 1995 and 2008. There were 16 species of Cyanobacteria, 16 of Chlorophyta, 6 of Heterokontophyta, and 12 of Rhodophyta. The low number and infrequent appearance of the algal epiphytes, in part, reflects the wide ranges in temperature (16 to 35 C) and salinity (8 to 35 PSU) in the northeastern estuary of Tampa Bay in the spring, summer and autumn over 14 years and the lack of large nutrient fluctuations and stability of H. wrightii. Seasonally, the number of species of Cyanobacteria, Chlorophyta, and Rhodophyta increased during the wet season (summer into early autumn), while members of the Heterokontophyta occurred mostly in the spring and summer. The study was carried out in the northeastern subsection of the Tampa Bay estuary where H. wrightii cover had increased from 0.2 ha in 1986 to 56 ha in 2008 after a decrease in nitrogen loading. Although a fraction of Hillsborough Bay supported seagrass cover in 2008 compared to the estimated cover in 1950 (ca. 1000 ha), epiphyte abundance and number of species over 14 years suggests that nitrogen loads in the Bay are presently low and stable.
24322345|Data are presented on seasonal abundance, microhabitat preferences, diet composition, growth rate, gestation period, clutch size, sperm web construction, courtship and mating behavior, egg sac construction, maternal behavior, and diel periodicity for the wolf spider, Arctosa littoralis Hentz from a scrub habitat in Florida. Arctosa littoralis is active during diurnal and nocturnal periods. During daylight hr, 84% percent of immatures was found either under leaf litter, plant debris or rocks, whereas 72% of adults and subadults was found under shaded bushes, rocks, or plant debris, or on the surface of leaf litter. At night, 70 and 73% of immatures, and adults/subadults, respectively, were found under plant material, on surface of litter, under bushes, or in open areas devoid of vegetation. This spider is a generalized predator and feeds primarily on a variety of ground-dwelling insects and spiders. Under laboratory conditions sperm webs were rectangular and required 1.56 min to complete. Induction of sperm into palpi required 59 min. Egg sac construction required 4390 min. Clutch size ranged from 2081 eggs (mean: 48.83  8.03 SE). Gestation period ranged from 913 days (at 22  0.4 C, 6575% RH; mean: 11.85  1.86). Upon emergence, spiderlings climbed on the female's back and remained there for 1114 days, after which they dispersed. A. littoralis exhibited 1011 instars. By instar 7, spiders had increased in size (carapace width) from 1.523.22 mm, and to 4.154.43 mm by instar 11. There was a significant positive correlation between female mass and size, offspring mass and size, female size and clutch size, and female size and clutch mass.
24322348|Microhabitat use by Neotoma floridana, Peromyscus gossypinus, and Rattus rattus in the tropical hardwood hammocks of Key Largo, Florida was modeled using logistic regression in order to determine the habitat needs of these species as well as determine if the species exhibited shared or distinct preferences. Models were created to determine which microhabitat variables could predict the presence or absence of a species at a trapping station. Data from the stations where a species was captured were used to create models describing the intensity of use. The presence of N. floridana at a location was predicted by characteristics of the understory, while their intensity of use of a location was predicted by canopy characteristics. The presence of P. gossypinus was predicted by characteristics of the canopy, while intensity of use of a location was predicted by understory characteristics. R. rattus intensity of use of a location was predicted by canopy characteristics. Our results suggest that N. floridana and P. gossypinus prefer intermediate age class hammock habitat and efforts should be made to minimize anthropogenic disturbance to Key Largo's hammocks.
24321840|Coastal eutrophication is a worldwide environmental concern, but especially so in Florida where there remains an inability to predict possible impacts on the chemical, physical, and biological features of the State's estuaries. An empirical approach developed for freshwater systems was used to examine the potential impact of suspected eutrophication on Choctawhatchee Bay, an estuary in northwestern Florida. Special attention was given to the hypothesized impact on submersed aquatic vegetation (SAV). A mass balance phosphorus-loading model accurately predicted phosphorus concentration within the bay. Similar to freshwater systems, significant empirical relationships were established between phosphorus and chlorophyll concentrations, and chlorophyll concentrations and water clarity as measured by using a Secchi disc. Secchi depth measurements were used to estimate the maximum depth of plant colonization and these predicted depths showed that the measured abundance of SAV in Choctawhatchee Bay was significantly less than the potential abundance, assuming light was the sole limiting factor to SAV distribution and abundance. The suspected eutrophication of Choctawhatchee Bay was not apparent using the chain of eutrophication models and was likely not a factor determining the distribution and abundance of SAV in the bay.
24319484|Alligator ponds or gator holes are ecologically important components of the marshes and swamps of southern Florida. Pond limnology was strongly influenced by southern Florida's subtropical environment and its alternating wet and dry seasons. Three morphological types of alligator ponds, peatland, rockland, and cypress ponds, are maintained by the activities of the American alligator. The study pond included emergent and submerged plant zones and was surrounded by swamp and marsh plant communities, particularly cypress swamps. Temperature varied seasonally and was strongly influenced by seasonal plant growth that inhibited mixing and resulted in temperature differentials equivalent to 12 C/m. The water was relatively clear and slightly brown. Physicochemical characteristics varied seasonally being affected by concentration in the dry season, dilution in the wet season, and the effects of fish kills. Oxygen supersaturation was frequent and diurnal fluctuation was great, particularly in the dry season. Low dissolved oxygen, high community respiration, and high fish densities caused fish kills. Reserve pH was consistently 8.2-8.3 and in situ pH was usually 7.1-7.8. The water was highly buffered; total alkalinity generally was 130-200 ppm. Nutrient concentrations were generally low. Specific conductance usually ranged 184-290 mho/cm2. Most constituents reached extreme levels during a fish kill. Although remote, the pond showed evidence of pesticide contamination.
24321885|From 2004 to 2008, 1,834 Environmental Resource Permits were issued for development projects in coastal wetlands within the Charlotte Harbor National Estuary Program. We evaluated 118 sites utilizing three wetland functional assessment methods (WFAMs): Hydrogeomorphic Method (HGM), Wetland Rapid Assessment Procedure (WRAP), and Uniform Mitigation Assessment Method (UMAM). All functioned as designed and produced similar assessments of wetlands but yielded different mitigation results. The study results showed that HGM was most effective in identifying and quantifying wetland fuctions of coastal wetlands. UMAM and WRAP are useful but delivered mitigation ratios less than one in both function and area, resulting in net wetland losses. The wetland area lost over the study period was small relative to total wetland area, but the permitted wetland elimination is gradually reducing the extent of wetlands. The process relocates wetland functions out of impacted watersheds toward off-site mitigation areas. The WFAM site evaluations indicated an equal or greater balance of ecosystem functions within the total service area when utilizing off-site mitigation. However, there is loss of wetland area and function in the donor watershed and an increase in function, but not area, of wetlands in the receiving watershed.
24319832|The present paper analyzes the dental health of a prehistoric population excavated at Highland Beach on the southeast coast of Florida. The main subsistence activity of this group was thought to be hunting of small game animals, exploitation of marine resources and gathering of plants. Archaeological evidence suggested that it was a pre-contact Indian society dating from 600 to 1200 A.D. Seven dental lesions were analyzed from a sample of 46 males and 62 females. A relatively low frequency of both caries and hypoplasia was detected in both sexes (about 1 %). Sexual differences were observed in antemortem tooth loss, periodontal abscess, alveolar resorption, and attrition, all of which were more common in males than females. These findings are in general agreement with other studies of similar pre-contact coastal American Indian populations practicing foraging subsistence strategy.
24320342|Capture of 1167 juvenile and adult snook, Centropomus undecimalis, in marine, estuarine and freshwater habitats of east-central Florida from 1974 to 1980 made possible determination of spawning periods, migratory habits, growth rate, general feeding habits and principle habitat associations. Although some juvenile recruitment to the estuary took place throughout the year, recruitment peaked from June to August and October to January. Early juveniles, 15-20 mm SL were most abundant in freshwater and marsh habitats. After 4 to 6 mo, juvenile snook reached 100-150 mm SL and were no longer caught in freshwater tributaries and marsh habitats. Snook 150 to 300 mm SL (mean of 240 mm) long typically began to migrate into seagrass beds during March. Age of a 240 mm snook is estimated at 7 to 9 mo. Seagrass beds 5 to 15 km away from ocean inlets were preferred habitats for juvenile snook over 150 mm SL and significant correlation was apparent between the percentage seagrass cover and number of snook caught per unit effort. Snook remained in seagrass beds from 2 to 5 mo until they reached a length of 300 mm. Snook over 300 mm SL were found to occur in a variety of estuarine and marine habitats. Snook as small as 11 mm SL were piscivorous in freshwater feeding primarily on neonatal Gambusia affinis, secondarily on palaemonid shrimp and microcrustaceans. However, small marsh snook fed principally upon microcrustaceans until large enough to take fish and palaemonid shrimp. Seagrass bed snook preyed on abundant fishes (e.g., Anchoa mitchilli and Lagodon rhomboides) and penaeid shrimp.
24319414|The distribution of Betula nigra, the river birch, was determined for the United States by field observations over 13 years, personal communications from field botanists, data from herbarium specimens and literature reports. A plot of the species is given by counties. The species extends from the northern part of Florida into Minnesota, Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York and New Hampshire and from the east coast into the eastern parts of Minnesota, Iowa, Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas. This northern range closely follows the southern limits of the last major continental glacier.
24321881|To help refine pollutant loading estimates throughout Sarasota County, the County and the Southwest Florida Water Management District monitored multiple medium-density residential areas to quantify the difference in pollutant loads between areas served by swales and areas served by curb and gutter. Sites were selected to be as similar as possible (e.g., soils, age of development, lawn care intensity, imperviousness, etc.) so that differences in results could be attributed to use of curb and gutter versus swales. Conditions favorable to higher confidence flow monitoring and proximity of sites to each other were also considered in site selection. Monitoring results showed significant differences in flow volumes and pollutant concentrations between the two types of areas. Pollutant loads from the swaled areas were substantially lower (10-fold less for some pollutants) than those from curb and gutter areas. Additionally, the swaled areas demonstrated runoff response patterns characteristic of an area without directly connected impervious area. The findings from this study are highly supportive of low impact design and demonstrate the effectiveness of source control higher in the stormwater system, particularly for systems with disconnected impervious areas.
24320349|Variations of dissolved ammonia and phosphate in pore water at depths of 2 to 40 cm were examined every 3 hrfor 27 hr. Eh values were consistently negative and pH ranged from 7.2 to 8.0. Ammonium and phosphate were greatest at 10 cm and both steadily decreased to 40 cm. Maximum ammonium concentrations were 2.7 M in surface water and 169 M in the sediment. Maximum phosphate concentrations were 6.4 M in surface water to 30.4 M in sediment. Nitrate concentrations were 2.2 to 9.9 M at 2 cm and 0.1 to 0.8 M in surface waters. No nitrate was detected below 2 cm. Dynamic changes in the levels of phosphate and ammonium were observed during the period.
24320318|Nestling pelecypods lack stout byssi. They live in crevices, rocks and holes left by boring pelecypods or dead barnacles. They characteristically have distorted shells that conform to the constricting cavity. Almost all nestlers have eulamellibranch ctenidia and all are marine suspension feeders. The earliest nestling pelecypods are probably Jurassic in age, but they increased greatly in diversity during the Cenozoic.
24321719|The ability of Tetrahymean vorax V2S, a unicellular, ciliated protist, to incorporate exogenously supplied inositol isomers was investigated by GC-MS analysis of inositol trimethylsilylimadazole derivatives prepared from hydrolyzed fractions containing free intracellular inositol plus polyphosphoinositols, and hydrolyzed fractions of total lipids. The predominant endogenous isomer found in each fraction was identified as myo-inositol. Following addition of exogenous inositol to a concentration of 100 M and incubation at 20C for 10 h, the cells internalized each of the seven isomers tested into the free inositol/polyphosphoinositol fraction. scyllo- and neo-Inositol were found in the lipid fraction. Less than 3% of myo-inositol uptake occurred via transport by food vacuoles as indicated by radiolabeling studies. When cells were supplied with any of the inositol isomers tested and incubated at 2C for 10 h, up to 24% of the total inositol detected in the free inositol/polyphosphoinositol fraction was identified as scyllo-inositol. Cells incubated at 2C and not supplied with exogenous inositol showed no relative increase in scyllo-inositol in the free inositol/polyphosphoinositol fraction.
24320460|Estimates, from laboratory and aquarium studies, were obtained of light compensation levels for the race of monoecious hydrilla [Hydrilla verticillata (L.f.) Royle] established in the Potomac River and of the effects of reduced light levels on plant growth and development. Results of this investigation indicate that hydrilla growth is retarded at Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) levels below 100 e/m2/sec. This is approximately equivalent to Secchi disc transparency, which is 5% of incident solar PAR. Our results suggest that depth and areal distribution of hydrilla in the Potomac River will be restricted to the limnetic zone. Growth should not occur below 1 % of incident solar PAR, and probably will not occur below the 5 % level.
24321410|Characters are proposed for the identification of the undescribed larva of Megadytes fraternus Sharp in southern Florida. A linear regression analysis of larval head lengths and total adult lengths was used to predict head lengths for the undescribed mature larvae of M. fraternus and Cybister occidentalis Aub. Head length estimates indicated that head length of the mature larva of M. fraternus is likely to be less than 6 mm. Measurements of C. fimbriolatus (Say) larvae and estimates computed for the undescribed mature larva of C. occidentalis indicate that crania of both Cybister species should be greater than 6 mm in length. Observations of the prosternal plates of C. fimbriolatus (Say), M. fallax (Aub), M. giganteus (Laporte), and M. marginithorax (Perty) revealed that the distance between these plates is less than the proximal depth of the profemur on C. fimbriolatus but greater than this depth on the Megadytes species examined. Thus, distances between the prosternal plates of M. fraternus are also expected to be greater than the proximal profemoral depth.
24319916|The present study was undertaken to analyze skeletal remains unearthed during a construction project at the Nebot site in Palm Beach, Florida. Based on the artifacts, the site was dated as Glades IIIc indicating contact period with Europeans. The partially fragmented remains were those of two females approximately 16-17, and 35-39 years of age. The older individual was taller and more robust. Metrical and morphological analysis of the crania indicated that these individuals may have belonged to genetically different families or groups. While their general health was relatively good, both showed evidence of dental abscesses, caries and moderate attrition. The older individual also exhibited signs of degenerative arthritis along the thoracic and lumbar vertebrae, and inflammatory swelling of the right tibia. Osteometric comparisons between these individuals and prehistoric Florida populations indicate that the Nebot skeletons most closely resembled Indians from the east coast of the state.
24320769|Slash Pines (Pinus elliottii var. densa) were studied in sites within and outside of Everglades National Park (ENP) to determine if high mortality (8099%) in sites out of ENP following Hurricane Andrew could be related to tree water status, nutrient status, or growth rate. Tree ring chronologies and carbon isotope measurements were used to compare growth rates and water stress levels from recent and old wood. Needle N, P, and C and their ratios were used to compare the nutrient status of surviving trees. Contrary to expectations, carbon isotope ratios of recent wood from trees in ENP indicate water stress levels similar to and in some cases higher than water stress levels of pines outside of ENP. Similarly, leaf nutrients and basal area increments were relatively low in the ENP stands compared to those of Dade County sites outside of ENP. Basal area increments of recent wood were positively correlated with 13C and leaf N and P, suggesting that growth is limited by water and nutrient stress at some of the sites. Furthermore, isotope ratios from most of the sites, including those within Everglades National Park, imply that water stress may have increased relative to 2535 years ago. While the results do not provide the basis for explaining widespread pine mortality outside of ENP, they indicate that in some sites, water stress and nutrients may limit regrowth of these stands.
24319719|Experiments were conducted in the spring of 1978 to compare the effect of seepage and drip irrigation on the yield of broccoli (Brassica oleracea L., Italica Group cv. 'Green Comet Hybrid'), sweet corn (Zea mays cv. 'Silver Queen') and zucchini squash (Cucurbita pepo cv. 'Fordhook'). Fertilizer rates were 2.77 kg N, 1.07 kg P, 3.8 kg K, and 0.3 kg Mg/100 row m in both irrigation systems. Seepage irrigated plots received water at a constant rate of 13.31 l/m2/da, while the amount of water with the drip system was adjusted every 10 da throughout the growing season. During their respective growing seasons broccoli received 752 l of water/m2 in seepage and 216 l/m2 in drip irrigation, sweet corn received 978 l/m2 and 355 l/m2 and zucchini squash 1124 l/m2 and 359 l/m2. Broccoli had a higher per plant and per ha yield with seepage irrigation. Sweet corn and zucchini had a higher/ha yield with drip irrigation due to higher plant density/ha. To produce l kg of marketable yield with seepage and drip irrigation, broccoli used 1,999 l of water and 684 l, sweet corn 916 l and 193 l, and zucchini 249 l and 59 l, respectively.
24320384|This study was designed to describe the distribution patterns of rice rats in coastal marshes and identify environmental variables that influence these patterns. Rice rat abundance increases from the forest-marsh ecotone toward the shoreline. Tidal flooding also increases along this gradient, but appears not to present a problem. Plant community composition, height, or cover density are not significantly correlated with distribution. These findings lead to hypotheses on the relation of predator and food resource densities to rice-rat distribution.
24320710|While water quality measurements traditionally have served as the surrogate of a water body's viability, ongoing work for the Tampa Bay National Estuary Program emphasizes a critical "next step" by linking water quality direcdy to the environmental requirements of Tampa Bay's most important habitats and to the faunal communities these habitats suppon. Under this strategy, resource-based water quality requirements for seagrass, mangrove, emergent marsh, and benthic communities wl be developed and incorporated into mandated federal and state programs for point and non-point source pollution control.
24320715|The need for regional wildlife habitat planning is critical in the Tampa Bay region because of high rates of growth and habitat removal. The commitment to regional wildlife habitat planning in order to help maintain regional species viability and diversity, has been adopted in Goal 10 of the Tampa Bay Regional Comprehensive Plan (1992) and in several local government comprehensive plans. The plan includes identification and protection of large preserves linked by coastal, riverine, and large mammal wildlife corridors. Implementation techniques to protect identified wildlife habitat include regulation, acquisition, and incentive programs. The difficulties of establishing the plan include resolving multiple-use land conflicts, the applicability of conservation biology theory to real world situations, and the need for accurate, basic information on regional biology.
24321237|Habitat relationships and seasonal activity of the greenhouse frog, Eleutherodactylus planirostris, were studied at Archbold Biological Station in south-central Florida and Everglades National Park in south Florida. In addition to its occurrence in developed areas, the species is well established in natural habitats in both study areas, occurring in mesic habitats in ENP and both mesic and xeric habitats, particularly long-unburned sites with well-developed tree canopy and a dense understory, on the ABS. The prevalence of E. planirostris in long-unburned sandy uplands of south-central Florida historically subject to relatively frequent (e.g. sandhill) or infrequent but intense (e.g. sand pine scrub) wildfires is in contrast to the negative effect of fire exclusion on the xeric-adapted native plant and animal species characteristic of these associations. In both study areas, this species is nearly active year-round, with a SeptemberDecember peak in numbers that included the appearance of young individuals. Calling is seasonal and correlated with warm and humid conditions defined by monthly temperature minima and rainfall. Based on threshold values of temperature and rainfall, predicted calling seasons in different geographic regions are longest (710 months) in extreme southern Florida and the West Indies, shorter (67 months) in southern, central, and much of northern Florida, and shortest (5 months) in extreme northern Florida and Mobile, Alabama, a coastal community where we expect the species to colonize.
24320471|This study describes the magnetic properties of nickel(II) chelates of Schiff-base derivatives of -diketones as a means of inferring their geometry. These compounds exist not as associated species (pseudo-octahedral structures) but as a paramagnetic (tetrahedral or distorted planar) of diamagnetic (planar) compounds. This geometrical isomerism is described for [C6H5COCHC(NC6H5)CH3]2Ni and [C6H5COCHC(4-ClC6H4N)CH3]2Ni. Magnetic susceptibilities of these compounds are consistent with the shift in the planar to pseudotetrahedral equilibrium.
24322001|Spatially distinct areas of intense biological utilization by a species are known as "hot spots." The objectives of this study were to determine the feasibility of utilizing hot spot analysis in an estuarine environment, and to specifically delineate the spatial distribution and the factors that influence the patterns of silver perch (Bairdiella chrysoura), an ecologically important species in northeast Florida due to their abundance and role of transferring energy within estuarine systems. Silver perch from the St. Marys, Nassau, and St. Johns Rivers were collected monthly from April 2001 through December 2005 by the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission Fisheries-Independent Monitoring program. Dense aggregations or "hot spots" of silver perch within these three estuaries were identified using a spatial statistic, Hot Spot Analysis Getis-Ord Gi* in ArcView GIS. Analysis of the abiotic factors driving the hot spots indicates salinity may be an important factor in silver perch habitat utilization. Further analysis revealed a distinct spatial distribution of the hot spots, and utilization varied with silver perch size class. Our results suggest that the hot spot analysis has an application in fisheries research and management and further use can delineate critical habitats and finer scale patterns.
24319574|The card for heterosite in the Powder Diffraction File lists 14 lines of which 3 do not belong to the mineral. We observe 55 lines for heterosite of composition (Fe.82Mn.18)PO4, and these have been indexed, checked against the known structure by calculation, and should serve as better reference data for identification of this mineral.
24319492|Largemouth bass fry hatched in mid-February 1974 were stocked into 7 central Florida hatchery ponds. At 9 and 10 mo bass were observed sweeping nests in 6 of 7 ponds. At 11 mo nests building and spawning activity was observed in all ponds. Bass in a single pond were allowed to remain 12 mo, at which time three distinct size classes of fry were collected. At drawdown 87% of the fish dissected were in, or had passed, reproductive condition. Lengths of males with mature gonads ranged from 120 mm to 320 mm and females from 122 mm to 352 mm.
24320789|An automated analysis system capable of providing speciation and concentration information for several atmospheric NOx compounds was used to obtain diurnal and location variation data during a five day research cruise in the southeastern Gulf of Mexico between May 18 and May 22, 1987. Speciation of these nitrogen compounds was achieved by selective preconcentration onto a series of chemically coated glass hollow tubes. Analysis was performed by thermally desorbing the collected analytes into a chemiluminescence detector providing sub parts-per-billion level determinations.
24320555|The aquatic herbicide fluridone (Sonar) applications to control the exotic aquatic macrophyte Hydrilla verticillata (L. f.) Royle were monitored in 1985 and 1987 in several shallow lakes located within the upper St. Johns River, Florida. Herbicide residues within the monitored treatment plots in 1985 and 1987, peaked above 200 g/L within six hours after application but could no longer be detected (detection limit 1 g/L) by 36 to 48 hours. Seven days after treatments in 1985 and 1987, fluridone was detected moving out of the treated lakes; concentrations ranged from 11 to 26 g/L in 1985 and 1 to 9 g/L in 1987. By 14 days after treatment in 1985, fluridone (7 g/L) was detected at the potable water intake located 8 km downstream of the treatment areas; finished water contained no detectable residues. Fluridone residues (1-4 g/L) were detected entering the potable water intake and in finished water (1-2 g/L) in 1987. Concentrations were well below the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency tolerance of 150 g/L. Fluridone reduced the area covered by hydrilla 40% to 90% in treated lakes in 1985; the plant reduction lasted four months to one year. Fluridone residues were detected for 50 days in 1985 and for 28 days in 1987 within the river system downstream of the treatment plots. Increased rainfall-induced water flow occurred in 1987 versus 1985, and most likely accounted for the greater persistence of fluridone in 1985. Little aquatic vegetation reduction could be demonstrated in 1987, probably due to insufficient concentration/contact time.
24320387|The light absorption coefficients of 17 Florida spring waters ranged from 0.038 to 1.144 m-1. Most springs had absorption coefficients less than 0.3 m-1. Fannin Springs, Rainbow Springs and Weeki Wachee Springs had absorption coefficients less than 0.065 m-1, and absorption spectra similar to that of pure water. Weeki Wachee Springs is among the clearest of natural waters.
24320389|A probe method for measuring radon in soil-air has been developed and applied to studies of radon in Hillsborough County and Polk County, Florida. Application has been in a general survey of Hillsborough County and to selected homesites. In low radon locations, from 4 to 100 pCi/L alpha activity was found. In phosphate mineralized or reclaimed land, alpha activity ranged from 200 to 8000 pCi/L.
24319604|The marine algae associated with a sublittoral reef at Vero Beach, Florida were investigated over a two month period during the summer of 1974. Habitat descriptions, zonation patterns, and floristic information are based upon field observations and laboratory determinations. One hundred nine species are reported, including 15 Cyanophyta, 19 Chlorophyta, 13 Phaeophyta, and 62 Rhodophyta; Gelidiopsis gracilis is newly recorded for Florida waters.
24321867|Euryhaline predatory fishes use river systems in south Florida, but the degree to which they compete with resident freshwater fish predators is unknown. The objectives of this study were to determine the abundance, distribution, habitat, and diet of a large diadromous euryhaline predator (common snook Centropomus undecimalis) in a southwest Florida river relative to large freshwater predators. Fish were electrofished in the mainstem of the Peace River 20072010, and gastric lavage was used to acquire stomach contents. Common snook and resident freshwater predators were found throughout the river. Common snook were most abundant in the lower section of the river, whereas the two dominant freshwater species, Florida gar Lepisosteus platyrhincus and largemouth bass Micropterus salmoides, were most abundant in the upper section. Both euryhaline and freshwater predators had affinities for structure (e.g., snags) and ate similar prey (predominantly crayfish Procambarus spp. and brown hoplo Hoplosternum littorale). Separate niches likely resulted from innate differences in seasonal movement patterns (e.g., spawning locations), habitat preferences (e.g., water depth and flow), and tolerance of environmental conditions (e.g., temperature) that either spatially separated common snook from freshwater predators or reduced competition for resources.
24319394|Man is one of the main sources in contaminating the air quality in a conference room. Air quality was measured while the room was occupied. Miran Infra-red analyzer, MSA Lira analyzer and Ecolyzer carbon monoxide analyzer were used to analyze the air samples. Carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, alcohol, methane and acetone were found. A mathematical model was derived to predict the instantaneous pollutant production rate from human beings, and to select an optimal ventilation rate to avoid excess pollutant accumulation in the room.
24320499|Buried seed densities in bottom sediments near the shores of Newnans Lake, Florida were estimated in 21.24 cm2, 10 cm deep cores collected at each of five water depths: 30, 40, 55, 80 and 120 cm. Germination in a greenhouse was used to determine viable seed density in the 32 samples. Ten herbaceous species and zero woody species germinated over a 12 week period. The number of germinated seeds ranged from 0 to 51 seeds per 21 cm2 sample and averaged 2,766 seeds/m2; there was no apparent trend with depth. Relatively low densities of buried seeds in bottom sediments in Newnans Lake compared with other lakes may be the result of 24 years of dampened lake level fluctuations due to a dam across Prairie Creek, the lake's major outflow.
24321568|The Texas horned lizard, Phrynosoma cornutum, was first introduced into Florida prior to 1928 in Palm Beach, Palm Beach County. Since then, this species was recorded from numerous Florida counties, including Duval, Escambia, Indian River, Lake, Marion, Miami-Dade, Orange, Palm Beach, Polk, and Putnam. We combined data from the literature, by examining preserved specimens in systematic collections, and recent herpetofaunal field surveys to help summarize the historic and present geographic distribution of P. cornutum in Florida. We document this species from four previously unreported counties, including Alachua, Levy, Okaloosa, and Santa Rosa. Phrynosoma cornutum currently occurs in Duval County in the northeastern peninsula and Escambia, Okaloosa, and Santa Rosa counties in the western panhandle. However, it appears that this species may have been extirpated in all other areas in Florida where it was once found. This non-native species should be removed when encountered in the wild and surveys should continue to determine if it is having negative ecological impacts on native species.
24319479|Air quality is a matter of great importance to future development of Florida. In this analysis we attempt to quantify Florida's air quality by using reports based upon measurements of air pollution levels. To carry out this analysis we must utilize some form of Air Quality Index (AQI). Because there is no universally established AQI we utilize several of the proposed air quality indices which have appeared in the literature as well as an AQI which we have developed ourselves. To place these indices on a common scale we calculate factors of safety (FS), by using an air pollution "load limit" specified in terms of the current National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS). With this common feature we can assign factors of safety using the combinative rules involved in a variety of air quality indices. This methodology is applied to a number of cities in Florida, from which we develop a pattern demonstrative of the present quality of Florida's air. We also examine two possible regulatory practices which are presently under consideration by the Florida Department of Environmental Regulation. The Factors of Safety which would result should these regulatory scenarios be adopted, show patterns which should be of interest in public considerations of Florida regulations.
24319403|The ichthyofauna of a tropical marine lagoon in the upper Florida Keys was censused in early spring and mid-summer in 1973. Visual counts revealed a fish standing crop of 0.01 kg/m2 (wet wt) in 1973. Carnivores represented the greatest percentage of the total standing crop of fish by wt. The visual censusing method employed may underestimate herbivore standing crop in tropical marine lagoons.
24321108|We present a complete, updated inventory of free-living copepod crustaceans from Everglades National Park and outside its northeastern border, and adjacent Big Cypress National Preserve, based both on published information, and on unpublished data collected during recent long-term research on surface- and groundwater-dwelling copepods. We provide detailed information on the ecology of the species, and a taxonomic key for their identification.
24319623|Observations of the 82 day incubation and hatching of Sceloporus woodi eggs deposited by a captive female revealed that the hatchlings had a snout-vent length of 19.5-21.4mm and tail 23.5-24.5mm long. Pigmentation was like the adult female even in the ventral markings.
24321413|Warmouth (Lepomis gulosus) biomass and density were positively related to percent area covered with aquatic vegetation in 60 Florida lakes. Warmouth biomass and denity were sampled in Lake Baldwin for nine years and found to be higher in the littoral than limnetic habitats. These data support conventional wisdom and suggest that the primary factor affecting warmouth biomass and density in Florida lakes is aquatic macrophytes abundance. Also, data examined from 60 Florida lakes showed that warmouth biomass averaged 10% of the entire fish population but reached as high as 50%. Because warmouth biomass and density can dominate other fishes in some systems they have the potential to direct a large portion of the energy flow through that system. Additional studies should be conducted to examine the ecological importance of warmouth, especially in macrophyte-dominated aquatic systems.
24321578|Data on 316 biology majors in a small, private university (19932002) revealed statistically significant correlations among SAT scores, GPA's, and performance on the comprehensive final exam in their first biology course. Verbal SAT scores (but not Math SAT scores) and high school GPA were statistically significant though relatively weak predictors for final semester average for the introductory biology course required for all majors; 23% of the variation in final course average was explained by Verbal SAT and HS GPA, leaving 77% of that variation unexplained. We caution admissions personnel and undergraduate advisors against over-reliance on SAT scores and GPA's as sole indicators of success in college biology.
24320453|Both the National Uranium Resource Evaluation and the Florida Statewide Radiation studies indicated a high potential for elevated indoor radon-222 activity levels in Dade County. This was confirmed by readings in one home which exceeded 40 pCi/L. Radium-226 and Radon-222 concentrations were determined in ground water and soil samples in order to understand better the cause of this apparent anomaly. Results indicate the radon-222 source materials are of natural origin, concentrated near the surface, primarily in a region in south Dade County known as the Redlands.
24319962|The geology and physiography of the island are described and the natural plant communities mapped and characterized. The vascular flora of the island consists of 393 taxa representing 92 plant families. The Poaceae, Asteraceae, and Cyperaceae constitute over 35% of the species diversity. Aquatic and wetlands plants predominate. A large number of species common to the Carrabelle area of mainland Franklin County are not found on the island. Although its flora is depauperate, the island has notable plants: the Sand Pine, Pinus clausa, is older on the island than on the adjacent mainland, and the subtropical species Avicennia germinans and Thelypteris interrupta have their northernmost populations on the island.
24320552|The survival of many species of Florida wildlife is threatened by widespread habitat loss. In order to assist in the identification of critical wildlife habitats before they are developed for other uses, a map of 22 land cover types (i.e., wildlife habitats) was created for the entire state of Florida using georeferenced Landsat Thematic Mapper imagery dated 1985-1989. During the study period, lands supporting relatively natural vegetative cover occurred over 58% of Florida, and lands showing evidence of disturbance occurred over 42% of the state. Pinelands were the most abundant upland cover type, freshwater marsh was the most abundant wetland type, and grassland/agriculture was the most abundant disturbed land type.
24312039|Approaches are discussed for integrating biological, hydrological, and cultural features of lakes in central and south Florida to determine operating stages and fluctuation schedules designed to approximate historical conditions.
24321569|Linear least-squares temperature trends were investigated for coastal sites and near-shore areas around Florida. Land air temperature data are from the Historical Climatology Network, littoral water temperature data are from Coast and Geodetic Survey tide gauges, and near-shore pelagic marine air temperatures and sea surface temperatures are from the Combined Ocean-Atmosphere Data Set (38 independent time-series in all). Over the last 160 years or so, Florida coastal air and water temperatures seem to have increased at a rate of about 0.2 to 0.4C per century, but the statistical significance is uncertain. No single dataset is consistent with any one other (r2 = 0.1 between trend pairs), and there is no geographic organization to temperature change as an indicator of Florida's coastal marine climate variability.
24319504|On 13 January 1976 a mature specimen of the naked sole was captured while night-light sampling in water 39.6 m deep. Only one previous report of a surface capture is known.
24320724|Over 1,400 attached blades (above-sediment tissues only) of Thalassia testudinum (turtle grass) were collected from Biscayne Bay over five years (1988-1993). Of these, 1,152 blades came from the Bear Cut Channel near Key Biscayne. The 1992-1993 samples were collected after Hurricane Andrew. These were compared with a smaller sample of 262 blades collected from the Crandon Marina (Key Biscayne) in 1990-1991. Blades from both sites showed the same patterns and proportions of fresh and decayed tissues: decay and epiphytic/epizootic organisms tended to increase along the distal portions of blades. Parrot fish tended to graze selectively on completely decayed portions near the tips of the blades. The data suggest parrot fish grazing in the Bear Cut site decreased over the last five years (over 95% of the sampled blades from Bear Cut had bites in 1988, while only 30-35% of the 1990-1993 Bear Cut blades had bites). The establishment of an artificial reef near Bear Cut in 1988-1989 may have had an influence on abundance of parrot fish, though this seems unlikely. (Funded partially by NIGMS-MARC Grant, Barry University).
24319720|The monotypic cirriped genus Xenobalanus is reported from the Gulf of Mexico for the first time.
24320290|A deformed female blacknose shark (Carcharhinus acronotus) was caught on longline in North Carolina exhibiting an encirclement at the level of the fourth gill slit. Subsequent examination revealed the encirclement to be a continuous monofilament line that had apparently been sewn into the shark rather than a remnant of gill net enmeshing.
24319581|The ichthyofauna in this Collier County estuary varied seasonally as salinity changed. Apparent salinity tolerances are noted for 31 species.
24319906|The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of food quantity and stocking density on the growth of juvenile snook. Two experiments were performed: 1 ) uniform stocking density (4 fish/38 L aquarium) and variable food quantity (7%, 10%, 20%, 30% body weight); 2) uniform food quantity and variable stocking density (1, 4, and 8, fish/38 L aquarium). Over ten weeks and 15 weeks respectively, standard length (SL) and weight were measured weekly. Growth rate was greatest in the 20 % ration and groups of 4; least in 7% ration and groups of 8. Coefficient of Variation (CV) was greatest in the 10% ration and isolated fish; least in the 20% ration and groups of 4. Taken together, these measures suggest that the food quantity of 20% body weight and the rearing conditions in groups of four are most conducive to sustained maximal growth in aquaria.
24321737|Rapidly rising sea-levels are changing the structure and composition of coastal ecosystems in Florida and around the world. Monitoring and predicting the spatial and temporal extents of these changes are important for numerous reasons including future conservation planning. In this study, remotely sensed data and geographic information system models coupled with permanent plot monitoring data were used to track vegetation changes in Waccasassa Bay State Preserve Park for the period of 19732003. Then, using logistic models for land-use change based on elevation and two different climate change scenarios, future changes in vegetation cover were predicted. The most dramatic change observed in land-cover during the monitoring period was a 17.5% reduction in coastal forest due to conversion to salt marsh. The land-cover change models estimate that 50% of the forests present in the Preserve in 1973 will disappear between 2108 and 2228 and all of it will be gone by 22732393. Lamentably, faunal and floral migration into upland areas on private land adjacent to the Preserve is likely to be impeded by development in the region.
24320286|Because of the great variability in outline of the valves of specimens of Exputens ocalensis, we think that this species was a nestler.
24320701|Current meter time series recorded simultaneously at three study sites along the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway (AIW) are used to characterize tidal and nontidal flow in the northern sub-basin of Florida's Indian River Lagoon near Sebastian Inlet. The semi-diurnal M2 constituent dominates all other tidal constituents with amplitudes decreasing from 11.0 cm s-1 near the inlet to 7.6 cm s-1 13 km north. The relative importance of the tidal variance in the current meter records decreases from 49% to 33% of the total over the same distance. The propagation of the M2 tidal wave is 5.5 km hr-1, based on phase angle and distance relationships between two of the study sites. Net along-channel flow is to the south, or towards the inlet, ranging between 0.5 and 2.1 cm s-1 in this section of the AIW during the 42-day study. Low-frequency motions at all three sites are inversely related to wind stress.
24320060|Mithrax spinosissimus in Lower Florida Keys canals has an avg density of 2-4 individuals larger than 6 cm carapace width per 100 sq m of canal wall; abundance increased with more and larger crevices. Tagged adults had an 18 mo molt period. Males comprised 25%, were territorial, and showed a marked increase in claw size near 8 cm carapace width. Avg crab size was estimated, 5-10% were missing claws, and 15-20% were missing walking legs. Although loss of a claw seems to have little effect on survival, claw removal and release is not recommended for commercial use. Commercial exploitation does not appear sustainable at this time.
24319868|Water level data collected over a 25-year period of time, and from 23 locations, are used to characterize the tides of Florida's Indian River lagoon. Diurnal and semi-diurnal tidal constituent amplitudes decrease rapidly with distance from each of three inlets. Beyond a point 25 km north of Sebastian Inlet, all diurnal and semi-diurnal constituent amplitudes are 1 cm or less, and tidal period water level variations account for less than 5% of the total variance. South of Sebastian Inlet, and especially south of Fort Pierce Inlet, tidal amplitudes increase, and the variance of tidal period water level variations is approximately equal to that of long-period fluctuations. Fortnightly and monthly constituent amplitudes are all a few centimeters or less. Semi-annual constituents show considerable variability in amplitude and phase because the data are from different time periods. The amplitude of the annual variation is consistently about twice that of the semi-annual variation, however.
24320747|Vertical profiles for concentrations of Ag, As, Cu, Hg, and Zn in two sediment cores from Crane Creek, Florida indicated that metals were present at 5 to more than 30 times natural levels. Comparison of sediment metal concentrations with values for sediment quality criteria predicted occasional adverse biological effects due to the presence of Ag, Cu and Zn, and frequent adverse biological effects due to Hg contamination. Sediment geochronologies determined by Cs-137 and excess Pb-210 suggest that Crane Creek has been stressed by elevated levels of heavy metals since the early 1950s.
24319608|Eight species of exotic cichlid fish were present in Dade County in March 1975. Three species have expanded their known ranges in the county by 8-16 km between July 1972 and October 1974; Cichlasoma meeki and Tilapia mariae are newly established cichlids in Florida's open waters and Tilapia zillii, a voracious herbivore, was collected in a small enclosed lake.
24320024|Vallisneria americana Michx. and Potamogeton pectinatus L. were collected over a four-year period in the winter and summer from a spring-fed river in central Florida and analyzed for proximate constituents (dry weight, ash, protein, solvable carbohydrate, lipid, fiber and lignin) from which energy content was determined. The stolon of the freshwater species did not store carbohydrate seasonally, and kilojoules per g dry weight were substantially lower in both winter and summer samplings in blades and stolons than reported for seagrasses of the same taxonomic families. Although leaf biomass increased significantly in the summer, a similar increase was not noted for the stolon again in contrast to their marine counterparts. Blade fiber levels in V. americana were higher (to 34%) than that reported for seagrasses or even some terrestrial grasses, suggesting that the broad, linear blades have adapted to high water movement by allocation of a large part of their organic content to structural carbohydrate.
24320016|Dehalogenation of chloroform in 50% chloroform-methanol (v/v) at 63C is assisted by bis(N-n-butylsalicylaldiminato)nickel(II). The reaction was studied in the presence of cyclohexene, and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectra were evaluated at varying times for the appearance of 7,7-dichloronorcarane, the logical product of dichlorocarbene and cyclohexene. The NMR spectra indicate the formation of 7,7-dichloronorcarane, 7,7-dichlorobicyclo[4.1.0]heptane.
24321400|Old World climbing fern (OWCF) is a serious pest plant in natural areas of central and south Florida. The fern has proved to be impossible to eradicate from natural areas in Florida using current management techniques once it has become established and produces spores. Previous studies indicate that multiple herbicide treatments are required for control of the fern. We tested two commonly used herbicides (glyphosate and metsulfuron methyl) at twice the label rate allowed under federal law under controlled conditions in the greenhouse to determine if increased herbicide rates can control OWCF, and concomitant spore germination and sporophyte development. Glyphosate (9.4 l a.i./75.7 l/ha) and metsulfuron methyl (168.0 g a.i./75.7 l/ha) applied at twice the maximum label rates provided complete control of OWCF under greenhouse conditions. No re-sprouts from the treated plants were observed with either herbicide treatment 52 weeks post-treatment. While herbicides applied at twice the recommended rate are effective in eliminating mature OWCF, they are not effective in controlling spore germination and the subsequent development of new sporophytes. Therefore, it is likely that re-treatment of OWCF will be required for control, regardless of the herbicide used or the application rate.
24320133|Tarpon Springs, Florida, consists of three major "enclaves", blacks, Greeks, and non-Greek Anglo-Americans. Hemoglobin data for the first two groups are presented. For 284 blacks, Hb allele frequencies are: A = 0.938, S = 0.051, C = 0.011. For 70 Greeks, the frequency of the thalassemia allele is 0.036. These blacks fit well with the genetic patterns displayed by other black American groups. For Tarpon Springs Greeks the frequency of the thalassemia allele is considerably lower than one would expect from a group primarily derived from the Dodecanese Islands of the southern Aegean Sea. Redirected selection accounts for some of the difference. Age analysis generally documents redirected selection favoring normal hemoglobin genotypes in both Greeks and blacks. The Sewell Wright Effect and/or Founder's Effect may account for the rest. Genetic data also document a lack of admixture between these groups in Tarpon Springs, but not in nearby Tampa.
24320158|The third and fourth known metamorphosed specimens of the fringe-limbed hylid frog, Hyla fimbrimembra, are reported. The first report of colors in life are provided for one of these specimens, a juvenile female from near Monteverde, Costa Rica; this includes a distinct brown-green metachrosis of its lichen-like color-pattern. Summarized are morphometric data on the four known metamorphosed individuals, all females, which range in body size from a 30.5-mm juvenile to an 86.5-mm adult. Available data suggest that the species is a nocturnally active, cloud forest form.
24319472|Necrotic, spreading, nonwalled skin lesions developed in 140 pen-reared hatchling loggerhead sea turtles and most died within a week of the first appearance of the disease. Treatment with mixed penicillin and streptomycin was begun after 131 had died, and before pathogenic determination had been completed. Bacteroides sp. Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphlococcus epidermis were found in lesion pus cultures. Bacteroides sp., common in the feces of warm-blooded animals, was considered the primary pathogen.
24321127|Control of invasive, non-native plants requires constant vigilance and reporting on the occurrence of non-native plants in natural areas. We report the documentation of 122 species of non-native vascular plants from 49 families on the Florida Panther National Wildlife Refuge. Non-native species were predominantly represented by the Poaceae (21%) and the Fabaceae (12%). Of the 122 species observed, 22 (18 %) were categorized as category I invasive plants by the Florida Exotic Pest Plant Council. Most species (69%) were reported in areas associated with previous or current human activity, such as roads, canals, spoil areas, and areas previously inhabited by humans.
24321214|The effects of salinity on the growth and survival of wild celery, Vallisneria americana Michx., from the Caloosahatchee Estuary (southwest Florida, USA), were examined experimentally using indoor mesocosms. Plants were exposed to 5 constant salinity treatments (0, 3, 9, 12, 15) for 43 days. Two factors (position in the estuary, season) which might lead to different exposure regimes and hence different salinity tolerances were also examined. Two independent experiments were conducted: one during the winter dry season and one during the summer wet season. In both seasons, plants were collected from two sites, one 5.5 km upstream of the other. The nutrient and chlorophyll concentrations in the plant tissue were analyzed at both sites. Salinity effects did not vary as a function of site, however, plants grown in sediment from the more upstream site had a higher concentration of phosphorus in blades. There was no seasonal effect on salinity tolerance limits. In both seasons, plants survived exposure to 15 for 43 days and net production of blades ceased at this salinity. There were seasonal differences in the pattern of response to salinity. Growth, as measured by blade elongation and production of blades and shoots, exhibited a threshold response in the dry season, with growth higher at salinities less than or equal to 3 and lower at salinities greater than or equal to 9 (0 = 3 > 9 = 12 = 15). In the wet season, growth declined monotonically with increasing salinity (0 > 3 > 9 > 12 > 15). At salinities  9, growth was greater during the wet season than during the dry season. Depending on the parameter, seasonal differences disappeared at 12 or 15.
24321151|The forces associated with a culture of Karenia brevis with a magnetic stirrer were calculated and related to the release of toxins by the affected organism. Even under seemingly mild conditions (3.5 rpm with a 2.5 cm stirring bar) enough shearing energy was provided to release toxins. Parameters calculated were: the Reynolds Number, tangential velocity, mean velocity gradient, and the power.
24320723|Conditions related to existing boat docks in submerged seagrass beds are analyzed for Pine Island Sound and San Carlos Bay in southwest Florida. Docks located over shallow grass flats were found to be associated with a distinct seagrass "shadow" underneath and adjacent to the docks which is nearly devoid of vegetation. Shadow area is significantly correlated with total dock area but not to dock width, height above mean high water or orientation. Additional dock effects observed include boat motor prop generated scarring of grass flats, changes in seagrass species composition and differences in epiphytic loading on blades. Ramifications of results for government permitting programs are discussed in regard to marina citing, dock specifications and densities.
24320283|The relations of carapace length and skeletal mass to body mass in several turtle species were examined. In nearly all species the log of body mass varies in proportion less than 3 times the log of carapace length. This differs from the usual condition in other reptiles where the proportion is 3 or more. The exponent of the power function relating skeletal mass and body mass averaged 1.11 and was similar to published data from other vertebrates and invertebrates. Some intraspecific (populational and sexual) variation in the relationships of both carapace length and skeletal mass to body mass was evident. Relative percent of body mass in skeletal mass was significantly higher in most turtles examined (2.440.4%) than in other animal groups studied (418%), except freshwater mollusks (1234%).
24321436|Microzooplankton grazing was measured with the dilution method in the central and southern sectors of the Indian River Lagoon during summer 2006 and 2007. Microzooplankton actively grazed phytoplankton during all experiments. Grazing rates averaged (SD) 0.95 0.19 d-1 and ranged from 0.54 to 1.36 d-1. Phytoplankton carbon, measured by microscopy, averaged 314  251 g C L-1 and ranged from 115 to 936 g C L-1. Microzooplankton ingestion rates averaged 303  260 g C L-1d-1 and ranged from 90 to 907 g C L-1d-1. Microzooplankton potential productivity, a first-order estimate of microzooplankton productivity, averaged 91  78 g C L-1d-1 and ranged from 27 to 272 g C L-1d-1. Microzooplankton grazing rates were not related to salinity. In contrast, the magnitudes of phytoplankton carbon concentration, microzooplankton ingestion rate, and microzooplankton potential productivity were statistically significantly greater in lower (<20 psu) salinity waters. An examination of data from another Florida estuary and other Gulf of Mexico coast estuaries suggests that microzooplankton productivity may, in general, be highest in lower salinity waters.
24321380|A total of 30 scale-bearing protistans were observed from 51 freshwater sites in Florida. Ten are new records for the United States.
24321170|During field surveys from June 2002 through August 2003, we documented an established population of the veiled or Yemen chameleon (Chamaeleo calyptratus) in Fort Myers, Lee County, Florida. We recorded at least 70 individuals, including both genders and all size classes in consecutive years, indicating a reproducing population. Additionally, ca. 100 individuals were reportedly removed from this site prior to our study. Chamaeleo calyptratus has also been reported from areas near Lehigh Acres and Alva, Lee County, and Naples, Collier County, suggesting independent introductions of this popular exotic lizard. Monitoring of this population should continue, and eradication should be attempted if ecological impacts on native species are observed.
24320972|Age and growth were determined on a newly established white bass (Morone chrysops) population in Lake Talquin, Florida from 19841993. Back calculated lengths at age were utilized since fish were sampled in the fall, prior to annulus formation. Regression analysis (R2 = 0.67, P < 0.001) demonstrated a linear relationship existed between fish total length (TL) and the arc sin transform of otolith radius. Age analysis indicated unprecedented growth and recruitment into the fishery (x = 267 mm TL) by age-1. Only 13% of 320 white bass back calculated for age were older than age-3. Mean back calculated lengths at age-1 for all yearclasses surpassed published minimum standards deemed as quality size (TL  230 mm). Differences in length (P < 0.0001) between males and females was noted as early as age-1. No significant difference (P > 0.05) in median total length at age-1 was found for all male yearclass combinations. A significant difference (P < 0.05) was apparent for age-2 males in 1984 and 1990. However, all other year-class combinations for age-2 males did not differ significantly (P > 0.05). Median lengths for all female year-class combinations showed no significant difference (P > 0.05) at age-1 or -2. A slight, yet significant downward trend (R2 = 0.0879, P < 0.01, b = -1.005, N = 1004) in relative weight was present from 1984 (Wr = 112) to 1993 (Wr = 98). However, relative weights for all sampling years fell within or slightly exceeded the target goal of 100  5. White bass age and growth, for all age-classes, have varied little over its first 10 years. The cyclical nature in year-class strength and the absence of older aged cohorts are likely contributing factors. No white bass (N = 1004) were ever collected during the course of this study deemed by published standards as trophy size (TL  460 mm).
24321165|We collected natural history data for the nonindigenous Mediterranean gecko (Hemidactylus turcicus) during three nocturnal surveys from summer 2001 through spring 2002 on the University of Florida campus in Gainesville, Florida. Adults consistently occurred at heights > 1m off the ground, whereas subadults usually occurred at heights  1m. Neither adults nor subadults demonstrated a tendency for social interaction. Adults occurred on both exposed and non-exposed wall surfaces, whereas subadults were generally found exposed. Adults chose substrates with higher mean temperatures than those chosen by subadults, and adults were typically located on warmer substrates in spring than in fall. The substrate temperature range for adults was smaller in spring than in fall, and larger than that for subadults in the fall.
24321785|This study examined the site fidelity, group size, and seasonality of dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) in the Atlantic Ocean along Florida's east-central coast, and evaluated dolphin movements between the coastal waters and the adjacent Indian River Lagoon Estuary (IRL). Dolphin sightings occurred in each month surveyed (2/20068/2008); of 221 photo-identified dolphins, 185 (83.7%) were seen 2 times. Low sighting frequencies suggest an extended geographic range beyond the 80 km latitudinal study area, or transience. Twenty-five dolphins seen during exploratory surveys (10/200210/2005) were re-sighted, indicating some level of longer-term residency for particular individuals. Increases in relative abundance in winter and spring indicate that at least some of the population may be migratory. Group size averaged 6.0 (SD = 7.8), and most frequently contained two individuals (22.8%). Calves were present in 88 of 167 (52.6%) groups encountered. Four dolphins that exhibited year-round site fidelity to the estuary were observed once in the ocean within 1 km of an inlet. One female and a dependent calf, which were first observed in the ocean, immigrated into the estuary. The limited movement between the coastal Atlantic and the IRL populations supports discrete management units, with low potential for disease transmission.
24321065|We applied the "leaf pack" technique (e.g., Merritt et al., 1979) that has been successfully used to characterize freshwater ecosystems, worldwide (Cushing et al., 1994), in a pilot study to test its feasibility in an estuarine environment of southwest Florida using Thalassia testudinum, and Rhizophora mangle. Our purpose was to investigate the utility of the "leaf pack" technique as a suitable means of indicating estuarine ecosystem health in this region. Evidence that weight loss of Thalassia leaf packs was substantially influenced by confounding factors were interpreted as indicating an unsuitability of the employed leaf pack procedures for this species, whose blades are both positively buoyant and exceedingly fragile, as a means of reliably characterizing ecosystem health. In contrast, Rhizophora leaves appeared to be more practical for use in leaf pack experiments. In certain instances both species experienced a weight-gain phenomenon, in the early stages of processing, which appeared consistent with extensive microbial colonization and growth. Weight gains recorded of certain Thalassia leaf packs were consistent with observations of heavy epiphytic growth whose visual appearance was different from that found on Rhizophora.
24321449|This study examined final exam scores of distance-education students who utilized supplemental learning resources and those who did not, as well as final exam grades of students in distance education and traditional students enrolled in a finite mathematics class, to determine if distance education is better, worse, or as good as traditional classroom instruction and to determine if supplemental learning resources are improving distance education. Significant differences were found in student performance between students who utilize MyMathLab as a learning tool in Finite Mathematics and those who do not take advantage of MyMathLab through Course Compass. There was no significant difference in final exam scores for students in distance education as compared to traditional instruction.
24321130|Several aspects of digestive function (digestive and assimilation efficiencies, DE and AE, and rate of gastric evacuation) were examined in three species of hemidactyline geckos from Florida: Hemidactylus turcicus, H. garnotii and H. mabouia. The DE and AE values for H. mabouia were significantly higher (88.4 and 75.8%, respectively) than those recorded for H. turcicus (80.7 and 67.2%) and H. garnotii (78.4 and 68.4%). Hemidactylus mabouia also exhibited a higher rate of gastric evacuation than the other two species. Forty-eight hr after feeding, the percent gastric evacuation for H. mabouia was 92.5% whereas the values for H. turcicus and H. garnotii were 75.6% and 70.4%, respectively. Differential values of DE and AE revealed in this study could provide a competitive advantage to H. mabouia and provide a mechanism for its superior colonization success over its two congeners in Florida.
24321857|The Charlotte Harbor National Estuary Program (CHNEP) updated its Comprehensive Conservation and Management Plan (CCMP) in March 2008. Two months later, CHNEP updated its Environmental Indicators Technical Report. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency requires each of the 28 NEPs in the country to produce a "State of the Bay" report or report card from their environmental indicators rooted in their CCMP. This paper describes the process CHNEP used to develop and complete its report guided by a Citizens Advisory Committee. Using survey techniques, CHNEP selected environmental indicators that best represented the state of the Charlotte Harbor estuaries and watershed. Survey respondents included members of each of the four committees (representing citizens, scientists, resource managers and elected/appointed officials) which make up CHNEP's "Management Conference". Over the next three years, the Management Conference issued contracts to fill data gaps, decided on the report title and format, reviewed deliverables from the contracts, compiled and analyzed available data, collected additional data through volunteer citizen efforts and considered representations of the data analyses. The triennial watershed summit featured much of this work and served as a kick-off for the final review of the draft report. The published report can be requested or downloaded at www.chnep.org.
24319746|An exceptionally large specimen of this open ocean genus extends the range of the species some 5400 km from off the coast of western Africa to New Jersey in the western North Atlantic. The specimen is described and figured, and meristics and morphometrics agree well with large individuals from near Japan.
24319452|Spiny lobsters grown under several regimes of temp were intolerant of sustained temp below 15.6C and above 30C. Thus, "marching" of lobsters across deep straits as previously theorized seems unlikely.
24319693|Evapotranspiration (ET) is an important process of the hydrological cycle, but it is difficult to be accurately estimated. When adequate records of ET for a crop are not available, 2 empirical formulae are commonly used to estimate ET: pan evaporation method and Blaney-Criddle method. According to the results made from both correlation and multiple regression analyses between pan evaporation and climatic factors, it was found that solor radiation was the most important factor affecting ET; temperature was the next important factor. Based on that, the Blaney-Criddle method was modified by using the solar radiation. The result showed that the modified Blaney-Criddle method was more applicable than the other 2 methods. The actual record data of ET for sugarcane, sawgrass, alfalfa, bahiagrass, bare soil, and cane trash were used to establish the vapotranspiration coefficients, which carried with vegetation types and time.
24319438|A proposed procedure for counting middorsal spines provides for a reliable separation of the Atlantic stingray (Dasyatis Sabina) from other sympatric species (D. sayi, D. americana, D. centroura) on the U. S. Atlantic coast. Middorsal spines were apparent when D. Sabina reached 149 to 170 mm disc width and increased with body size. Rate of spine development decreased when disc width reached 250 mm. Rate of spine development was similar in both sexes of D. sabina although females reached a much larger size.
24322280|Current research is demonstrating that turtles can readily navigate through their environment, even to the point of taking the shortest distance between subhabitats or subpopulations. The mechanisms behind large-scale spatial orientation have been attributed to several factors, including following magnetic forces, lunar location, and water currents. However, on smaller scales it is likely that adult turtles have learned the location of surrounding habitats (rather than relying on external spatial cues), and are therefore familiar with the spatial location of nearby resources. The life stage at which turtles begin to explore their environment and become familiar with their surroundings is currently unknown. Using radio telemetry, I investigated whether hatchling gopher tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus) returned to burrows they previously inhabited, indicating they can re-locate learned resources within the environment. Hatchlings returned to previously used burrows, and this was dependent upon the total number of burrows excavated. Body size and longevity did not affect this behavior. The longevity of turtles and tortoises suggests that they may gather spatial information on their surroundings throughout their entire lives. When designing conservation plans it is important to take into account the familiarity of the focal species with surrounding areas so that spatial disorientation does not occur.
24321205|The use of the Lemna minor L. species of duckweed is an emergent technology that may be effective for the removal of nitrogen and phosphorus from enriched waters. The goal of this project is to find a cost-effective method of removing nitrogen and phosphorus from fresh water resources that have received loadings of these nutrients in stormwater runoff. This research examined the uptake of nitrogen and phosphorus by cultures of duckweed, L. minor L., cultivated in the laboratory under controlled environmental conditions. L. minor L. was grown in Plexiglas reactors (1600-mL) using modified Hillman growth medium. The effect of Lemna on phosphorus and nitrogen uptake and plant growth was measured over a two-week period. Two approaches were used: a batch and continuous flow method. For the latter method, a mass balance calculation was performed using measurements of the mass of phosphorus and nitrogen added in the influent, the mass taken up in the growing Lemna biomass, and the mass exiting in the effluent. A mass balance for high nitrogen, low phosphorus media (650 ppm N and 150 ppm P) indicated that 7% of the nitrogen and 10% of the phosphorus was removed by the plant uptake over the 14-day period of operation.
24321084|We document an established population of an Asian agamid lizard commonly called the bloodsucker (Calotes versicolor) in St. Lucie County, Florida. This population was apparently introduced in 1978, and approximately 100 specimens have been captured by two commercial collectors in the past 10 yr. All specimens were captured from nocturnal roosts 19 m high in weeds, vines, bushes, and trees. We deposited voucher specimens consisting of 10 juveniles and an adult female with 19 oviductal eggs captured in August 2003. The known population boundaries extend ca. 10 km east-west and north-south, and they encompass citrus groves, Brazilian pepper fSchinus terebinthifolius) thickets, mesic flatwoods, and canals. We do not know what ecological impacts this species might have on native wildlife species, although it has been documented feeding on small vertebrates in Asia.
24320545|This review synthesizes over 40 years of studies on the ecological resources of the Kissimmee River. Prior to 1962 the Kissimmee River ecosystem supported diverse fish and wildlife populations including waterfowl, wading birds, and a nationally recognized fishery. The historic floodplain consisted of a mosaic of broadleaf marsh, shrub and prairie wetland communities. Between 1962 and 1970 the river was channelized and transformed into a series of impounded reservoirs. The physical impacts of channelization, including alteration of the system's unique hydrologic characteristics, largely eliminated the wetland and fish and wildlife values of the river and floodplain. Attendant "restoration" studies, including the recently completed demonstration project which documented habitat, water quality, avian, fish, and invertebrate responses to water level manipulations, reestablished floodplain inundation, and reintroduced flow, confirmed the feasibility of restoring both the structure and functions of the historic Kissimmee River ecosystem. The integration of available data on pre-channelization resources, impacts of channelization, and restoration-related studies forms the basis of the current plan to restore the ecological integrity of the Kissimmee River.
24321142|From May 1999 through March 2000, a thorough search for dolphin-watching companies was performed and recorded in a database to determine the abundance and distribution of commercial dolphin-watching companies throughout Florida. Companies were classified based on the level and/or type of dolphin-watching they performed. Frequency of tour operation per day and per season was analyzed for Pinellas County. More than 100 dolphin-watching companies were found in Florida. These results indicate dolphin watching is much more abundant throughout Florida than previously believed. Potential effects from high levels of dolphin watching are discussed.
24321800|Eight lakes in central Florida were inspected for their freshwater bryozoan faunal composition. Floatoblasts were sampled by means of a special bryozoan surface net. Nine species were found: Pectinatella magnifica, Plumatella bushnelli, Plumatella casmiana, Plumatella repens, Plumatella reticulata, Plumatella vaihiriae, Plumatella sp., Plumatella geimermassardi, Plumatella vorstmani. The last two are first records for U.S.A. More investigation is needed to determine if the floatoblasts were produced locally or if they were introduced from other lakes by vectors such as migratory birds, fish and boats.
24321667|We assess seagrass status and trends by two methods: (1) seagrass mapping every 23 years since 1986, plus 1943, and (2) monitoring of 59 fixed transects twice a year since 1994. In 2005, there were 26,101 ha of seagrass between Ponce de Leon Inlet and Vero Beach, which is at least as much as the 1943 coverage. Trends based on mapping show an increase in coverage in 12 of the 18 segments from 1994 to 2005. Similarly, average extent of seagrass beds from shore to the deep edge (transect length) increased from 1996 to 1999, then leveled off through 2006. The hurricanes of 2004 did not alter these positive trends, but may have contributed to reduction in seagrass densities in 2006 from Melbourne to Vero Beach.
24320583|Redear sunfish (Lepomis microlophus), largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides), and bluegill sunfish (Lepomis macrochirus) were collected from stormwater ponds and natural lakes and ponds in the Greater Orlando area and analyzed for silver in order to determine: (1) if fish that live in stormwater treatment ponds bioaccumulate significant concentrations of silver and (2) if differences in silver concentrations between species with different foraging strategies occur. Redear sunfish from stormwater ponds (0.458 mg/kg) contained significantly higher (p<0.005) concentrations of silver than fish from control sites (0.001 mg/kg). Largemouth bass and bluegill collected from stormwater ponds (0.419 mg/kg; 0.0278 mg/kg, respectively) contained higher concentrations of silver than those from control sites (0.0418 mg/kg; 0.0014 mg/kg, respectively), but the differences were not statistically significant. No significant (p<0.05) correlations between silver concentration and length and weight of any of the three fish species were found.
24321802|In this study, the amount of living coral was examined over a 3-year period within a frequently used patch reef adjacent to (< 75 m) South Water Caye, Belize, an increasingly popular ecotourist destination for international student-groups and snorkelers. The total number of intact coral formations observed within sampling transects decreased 17.6% from 20062008. The percentage of intact corals that supported living coral tissue differed between years in our study (ANOVA, F=20.695, P<0.001). The percentage of intact corals that supported 100% living coral cover decreased from 14.2% in 2006 to 8.3% in 2008, whereas the percentage of intact corals that supported no living coral tissue increased from 13.2% in 2006 to 24.1% in 2008. Such information on the magnitude and distribution of coral mortality in high use areas is an important component of any strategy to manage tourism on coral reefs.
24320995|Emydid turtles were surveyed in a man-made south Florida pond in 1993 and 1994. A total of 80 Pseudemys nelsoni, 70 Trachemys scripta elegans, and 13 Pseudemys floridana peninsularis were captured and marked. Mean carapace lengths and length to weight relationships for P. nelsoni, T.s. elegans, and P.f. peninsularis were described.
24321739|The invasive green mussel, Perna viridis (Mytilidae), was first reported in Tampa Bay, on the west coast of Florida. Using multiple-choice experiments, we examined whether native predators, the blue crab Callinectes sapidus (Portunidae) and the Caribbean spiny lobster Panulirus argus (Palinuridae), would prey on P. viridis. Predators were offered equal numbers of three bivalve prey: P. viridis, eastern oysters Crassostrea virginica (Ostreidae), and northern quahogs (=hard clams) Mercenaria mercenaria (Veneridae). Consumption was recorded for 1314 days. We found that only blue crabs consumed non-indigenous P. viridis, consuming twice as many green mussels as hard clams or oysters. Spiny lobsters did not consume any P. viridis during the experiment, although green mussel shells showed evidence of chipping along the posterior margins. It is unlikely that foraging by either of these native predators will provide a natural control mechanism for green mussels.
24319785|The participation of males in infant care among the primates is linked to both evolutionary and ecological factors and is positively correlated with the intragroup to intergroup competitive ratio experienced by the primary social group. Not only does such caretaking enhance offspring viability, but it also permits reducing aggressivity within the social group by altering neonatal hormonal secretions, thereby affecting later adult endocrine responses. As most primate societies are comprised of kin groups, the raising of aggression thresholds in high intragroup competitive situations would permit the operation of kin selection and secure enhancement of reproductive success. Conversely, a clear correlation of high male aggressivity and low male caretaking of young is demonstrable throughout the primate order, including the social groups of man.
24321187|Two seepage bogs in Blackwater River State Forest, Okaloosa County, Florida, were surveyed using funnel traps along drift fences for 165 trapping days from 23 September 1998 to 1 September 1999. Fourteen amphibian and 23 reptile species were trapped, and two additional anuran species were heard calling in bogs. Bogs were used by some species from the surrounding pine uplands and provided ideal habitat for Pine Barrens treefrogs (Hyla andersonii), dwarf salamanders (Eurycea cf. quadridigitata), southern coal skinks (Eumeces anthracinus pluvialis), and several snake species. Most species were apparently more common in the herbaceous than the shrub portions of bogs. The species composition of amphibian and reptile communities differed between bogs and often between shrub and herb portions of the same bog. Much of this difference was probably due to incomplete sampling of the herpetofaunal community, but some of the difference was due to habitat variation. The warmest months, June and August, produced the greatest diversity of species. Stream temperatures in shrub bogs never dropped below 10C during the sampling period. Herpetofauna inhabiting seepage bogs is primarily threatened by improper fire frequency or timing, alteration of hydrology, and siltation from and impoundment by roads.
24319953|While using sex-pheromone attractants to collect clearwing moths (Family Sesiidae) in north Florida near the Georgia and Alabama borders, a maple clearwing (Synanthedon acerrubri) not previously recorded in the state was captured at two locations.
24321841|Landscape mulch is applied to plant beds to enhance aesthetics, improve soil characteristics for plant growth, and suppress weed germination. Despite conventional use of mulch, few studies have examined its influence on soil hydrology and impact on urban stormwater runoff and leachate. Eighteen runoff boxes were backfilled with two soils representative of those observed in newly constructed urban landscapes in Central Florida. Pine bark, pine straw (needles), a cypress/pine blend, and shredded rubber tire mulch were applied at depths of 0, 7.6, and 15.2 centimeters (cm). Simulated precipitation was applied at a rate of 2.5 cm per hour (cm hr-1) for a duration of 15 minutes (min) to replicate local historical precipitation patterns. Differences in mulch application depth (between 7.6 and 15.2 cm) did not influence (P0.05) runoff or leachate volumes. Application of cypress/pine, pine bark, and pine straw mulch reduced runoff and leachate volumes and are recommended to minimize nutrient discharge from urban landscapes.
24319948|Four collections of airborne algae obtained along a transect across northcentral Florida yielded 111 species. Fifty-nine were members of the Cyanophyta, 48 of the Chlorophyta, 3 of the Chrysophyta and 1 of the Euglenophyta. The larger number of species isolated in the warmer months are attributed to meteorological conditions and farming activities during this period that provide transport of algal propagules from the disturbed soil.
24321393|Rhizophora mangle L. (red mangrove) is one of the three mangrove species in South Florida. This species is distinguished from the other two species by its aerial prop roots and its elongated viviparous propagules. Although most propagules are abscised from the parent plant between JulySeptember when hypocotyls are >20 cm long, the proportion of propagules surviving to that stage is low. Many propagules are lost prior to being fully developed. This then led to the question: Is seedling survivorship related to its size? Propagules collected ranged from 2.120.1 cm in length, with 40% of propagules <8.0 cm long. There was little variation in seedling morphology across a wide range of sizes. Seedling survivorship was related to propagule size; 42% of propagules <8.0 cm died but all the propagules in the largest size class (17.020.1 cm) survived. Therefore, at time of abscission from the parent plant, approximately 50% of the seedlings were small and not viable. Survivorship probabilities of seedlings could be predicted from linear regression against hypocotyl length, diameter and (fruit + propagule) mass. Causes of mortality are discussed in the context of: (1) nutrient deficiencies, (2) hormonal imbalances or deficiencies, and (3) physiological breakdown.
24319905|The relationships among egg weight, chick weight, yolk sac weight, and carcass weight (chick weight minus y.s. weight) in Bobwhite quail chicks at hatch were determined. Three egg weight groupings (9.6,10.4 and 11.2 g) were used. Chicks were removed from the incubator at 4-hr intervals from the start of hatching and body and yolk sac weights were determined immediately. Larger eggs produced larger chicks with larger yolk sacs and larger carcasses. As egg size increased, the chick weight as a percentage of egg weight increased. Yolk sac as a percentage of chick weight and yolk sac as a percentage of carcass weight were significantly lower for chicks from small eggs. The following correlations were found: egg weight to chick weight, 0.88; egg weight to yolk sac weight, 0.38; chick weight to yolk sac weight, 0.37; egg weight to chick carcass weight, 0.73.
24319433|Those who seek to understand ancient carbonate rocks must first pursue knowledge of modern carbonate depositional environments. Those who study modern carbonates in tropical areas quickly learn that plants and animals exert significant influences upon the depositional environment, affecting the sedimentary record in a variety of ways. Many geologists and paleontologists, therefore, have entered into studies of modern organisms and their effects upon the carbonate sedimentary framework. The foraminifera are important both as members of the biota and as skeletal constituents of carbonate sediments in areas such as south Florida and the Bahamas. Most studies of modern foraminifers from the south Florida-Bahama region have concentrated on distributions among sediment samples, with living and dead populations distinguished on the basis of rose bengal stain. Rose bengal is found to be an unreliable indicator of living specimens and methods of direct observation are suggested for the recognition of live foraminifers. Generally, a larger living population is found on marine vegetation than in the sediments of these areas. The assemblage among the bottom sediments commonly is sorted by waves and currents and does not necessarily accurately reflect the biocoenosis of an area. Attempts must be made to discriminate between those factors of the environment that influence the distribution of living populations and those that determine the thanatocoenosis in the sediments. More biologically oriented investigations are necessary for a better understanding of the foraminifera in their natural habitats. Such investigations should include both field studies and laboratory cultures.
24320397|A comprehensive study (1967-1973) of Key deer resulted in 129 rumen samples from mortalities. Analyses yielded 164 plant foods of which 28 comprised about 75% of the total volume. In order of importance value, red mangrove, black mangrove, Indian mulberry, silver palm, brittle thatch palm, blackbead, grasses, pencil flower, acacia, and sapodilla were the 10 top ranking. Woody browse contributed 42% of total volume; woody plant fruits 27%; palm flowers, fruits and spathes 14%; forbs 13%; and miscellaneous 3%. There was seasonal change in use, reflecting individual plant phenology as related to weather. Clearly evidenced was diversity in the deer's diet suggesting habitat management must address variety between and within plant communities.
24320544|Since Europeans first arrived in Florida, at least 9 vertebrate taxa have been driven to extinction, 5 of which disappeared in the last 50 years. In addition, Florida is home to 56 taxa listed as threatened and endangered, and 44% of all vertebrate taxa in Florida are probably declining. The reason most often cited for the problems now facing Florida wildlife is habitat destruction. Data from the U.S. Forest Service were reviewed to quantify gross changes in land use, land cover, and wildlife habitat over time. During the period 1936-1987, Florida lost 1.74 million ha of forest and 1.57 million ha of herbaceous wetlands to development, predominantly to the expansion of urban areas, agriculture, and range lands. The preponderance of forest land lost was covered by pines (Pinus sp.). Longleaf pine (P. palustris) forests suffered the most, declining 88% in 51 years. At observed rates of loss, longleaf pine forests will disappear from unprotected lands in Florida by 1995, sand pine (P. clausa) scrub forests by 2047, and pond pine (P. serotina) wetlands by 2024. Since 1970, upland hardwood forests have decreased 27%, and forested wetlands have decreased 17%.
24320125|Two additional specimens of the mole snake, Lampropeltis calligaster, and reports of 2 other individuals confirm the occurrence of this wide-ranging species in peninsular Florida. Circumstances of capture and meristic data from the available specimens indicate that these records represent native populations.
24319590|Corniger spinosis is newly reported for the Gulf of Mexico; Pomacentrus fuscus, P. partitus, Pomacanthus arcuatus, and P. paru are new to Pensacola. Pearlfish-sea cucumber symbiosis occurs frequently in the area.
24320057|A pre- and post-storm SCUBA inspection of relative abundance of fish species was conducted at a rock jetty in the northern Gulf of Mexico. As little or no change occurred in the fish fauna between the sampling dates, it is concluded that the storm had little effect on the fauna.
24321791|The intensity of biological interactions between invasive and native fish species may be inferred from the degree of overlap in their food habits and feeding behavior. In this study, the kinematics and mode of prey-capture were compared between young-of-the-year (YOY) native Florida largemouth bass, Micropterus floridanus, and invasive pike killifish, Belonesox belizanus. Principal component analysis revealed a pattern of overlap in prey-capture kinematic space between species. Subsequent t-tests comparing the loading scores of each of the first two principal components, using species as a grouping factor revealed that in general, the kinematics of prey-capture were similar between M. floridanus and B. belizanus. However, both species differed in feeding mode; B. belizanus employs ram-feeding whereas M. floridanus uses ram-suction to capture prey. Similarity in prey-capture kinematics and disparity in feeding mode may facilitate the interaction between these coexisting native and invasive species.
24319673|The habitat requirements of apple snails at Lake Woodruff National Wildlife Refuge were studied during the summer of 1971. Snails were observed throughout the 19,000 acre refuge, but were most abundant in Spring Garden Creek. Three transects were established to sample snail egg clusters as an index of snail abundance. Transects were located at the head, middle, and mouth of the creek to best represent the diversity of water and vegetational conditions. Quadrats along the transects were studied in August and October. Fewer snail egg clusters were found at the mouth than at the head of the creek. Eggs in 70 clusters were counted and the following parameters recorded: range 3-50, mean 28.3, and median 27. Height of 67 egg clusters were: range 0-38", mean 9.1", and median 6". It appeared that snails had no preference for egg laying substrate and used whatever plant species were most available. Seven chemical and physical water characteristics were analyzed. Apparent color and turbidity increased from the head to the mouth of the Creek, while hydrogen ion concentration (pH) decreased. Several snails were observed laying eggs beginning 2 to 3 hr after sunset. Eggs were laid at the approximate rate of 1 every 4 minutes, and total time to lay an average cluster was 1 to 2 hr.
24321071|An inventory of amphibians and reptiles is provided for Everglades National Park (ENP), with special attention to temporal changes associated with the list. The 55 native, non-marine species in ENP comprise 40.4% of the entire native non-marine Florida herpetofauna, whereas 21.1% of Florida's exotic species occur in ENP. The native herpctofauna of ENP is comprised mostly of southeastern U.S. coastal plain species at the southern end of their geographic ranges, and is best represented by snakes and anurans. The status of ten species recorded in areas near the park, but not within the park, remains in question. Taxonomic uncertainties are identified in four polytypic species found in the park. Past changes in, and future predictions regarding, the Park's herpetofauna are associated with activities of humans. In the past 40 years, three species have disappeared from ENP, and six exotic species, mostly lizards, have invaded the park. Changes in species abundance, more than the presence/absence of strongly aquatic and upland species, are predicted to occur following proposed hydrological changes in ENP. New exotic species are likely to appear in ENP because of increases in human traffic in Dade County and the influx of exotic species in southern Florida.
24321235|The effect of colored plastic panels was studied on a model system, duckweed, Lemna minor L., to determine if light could control emergent aquatic plants. Wavelengths of incident light were controlled using three different colored plastics (red, green, and blue), for which the UV-visible spectrum was evaluated using a spectrophotometer. Plants were exposed to light passing through the plastic, and their growth was compared with ordinary light of the same intensity (100 Es/m2/sec. as measured by a light meter). Temperature was maintained at 25  0.2C. Growth was measured by the number of fronds produced as a function of time, a relationship between frond count, fresh weight, and dry weight was established. Plants grown under green plastic (420580 nm) and blue plastic (400470 and 620660 nm) grew less than control samples; plants under red plastic (550700 nm) grew better than control samples.
24320218|Field collections and laboratory bioassay experiments were conducted comparing various rotenone compounds and solutions with regard to their ability to stupefy and kill marine fish. Crystalline rotenone (97% pure rotenone), rotenone resin (42-45% rotenone) and premixed 5% emulsified rotenone solutions were tested as were alcohol, acetone and Aromatic 150 solvents. Marine fish and invertebrates tested were both effected by emulsified rotenone while crystalline rotenone was more specific for fish and not the marine invertebrates tested. The pure emulsifier, ATLOX 3335, caused fatalities in Cyprinodon variegatus.
24319682|The species was first found in west Florida near Sumatra along Owl Creek.
24320947|A recent review of control and mitigation cirteria for red tide is reviewed, misunderstandings are corrected, and alternative points of view are presented. In particular, literature concerning marine allelopathy seems to have been neglected, criteria for an effective control agent are reviewed, and advantages of a degradable organic compound versus a non-degradable inorganic substance are considered. An attempt is made to overcome some evident misunderstandings and misconceptions that appear to exist in the literature.
24319399|A stereotyped behavior pattern exhibited by dolphins preying upon mullet in the northern Gulf of Mexico is briefly described.
24319707|I discuss 2 topics in the philosophy of space which are related to fundamental questions in mathematics: the dimensionality of the space continuum and Zeno's arrow paradox. For the former, it is demonstrated how the discipline called dimension theory in topology, coupled with real-world data, completely settles the question, though not without some subtlety. However, for the latter it is argued that the explication offered by rigorously formulated differential calculus, though logically unassailable, actually skirts the phenomenological issue, which is discussed and tentatively identified.
24319401|Known range is extended 75 km eastward.
24319666|Range of the introduced Brazilian shrimp is extended 190 km northward to Volusia County.
24320179|This paper describes the introduction of Asian rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta, subfamily Cercopithecinae) into the area in and around Silver Springs, Florida, in 1938 and the subsequent history of the monkeys.
24319971|The Engineering Sciences Section of FAS held a panel discussion at the 1988 Annual Meeting to discuss ways in which engineers impact Florida's Economy. Representatives of engineering education, construction engineering, high-technology industry, health and safety engineering, agricultural engineering, municipal engineering and space engineering all outlined specific impacts and made suggestions for increasing these impacts in positive ways. The panel and the FAS Section feel that these need wider dissemination to Florida's scientists and engineers.
24321824|Scrub pawpaw (Asimina obovata), is a characteristic but scattered long-lived shrub in upland Florida ecosystems. We report on results of two field germination experiments that help define its requirements for seed germination and seedling survival. In our first experiment (begun in 1999), germination rates were low (7%) and nearly all seeds germinated under shrubs (vs. in gaps). Some of these seedlings survived a 2001 fire by resprouting. A larger second experiment (2002) showed that time-since-fire and nearby canopy height were the best predictors of germination ( overall rate 42%). Locations with intermediate time-since-fire or intermediate canopy height had higher germination. In both experiments, we did not find evidence that protection from mammalian herbivory by caging affected observed germination. Although most germination occurred during the first year, calculations suggest about 20% of seeds enter a persistent seed bank, 30% of seeds survive in the seed bank annually, and 30% of surviving seeds can germinate in each of the next three years. Seedling survival through 2009 from the 2002 experiment was high (usually > 80% annually) and unaffected by caging. Survival varied among sites and was highest in the long-unburned site. Although pawpaw persists at frequently burned sites by resprouting, seed germination and seedling recruitment are favored by infrequent fires.
24320337|Epibenthic marine fish populations were sampled in order to establish quantitative baseline data for use in long-term monitoring of the northern Indian River lagoon system, Florida. Fish samples were taken by trawling monthly at 8 fixed stations from June through September 1979 and 1980. Fifty-seven species representing 29 families were collected. The community was numerically dominated by a very few species. Anchoa mitchilli alone accounted for 87% of the 105,853 individuals collected. Abundance, dominance, and species diversity were compared among the 3 lagoon subdivisions  Mosquito Lagoon, Indian River, and Banana River. Greater numbers of fishes were collected in the Indian River, whereas the highest diversity levels were in the Banana River. Although most species were collected in all 3 subareas, inequities occurred in the numbers of individuals taken. For example. Mosquito Lagoon produced significantly more Micropogonias undulatus and Leiostomus xanthurus than either the Indian or Banana rivers. Significantly more Syngnathus scovelli and Anchoa mitchilli were collected in Indian River than in Banana River, and Banana River produced significantly more Lagodon rhombodes than did Indian River. The only measured environmental parameters that appeared to be significant in determining fish populations were vegetative cover and salinity. An importance value (IV) index, combining relative abundance, relative frequency of capture, and relative size (biomass) per individual, was calculated for each species in the community. Dominance ranking by IV has advantages over dominance ranking by relative abundance alone and is valuable for making comparisons in a long-term monitoring study.
24319420|A survey was conducted of first year biology textbooks and their utilization in Florida public high schools in the Spring of 1974. Of the 278 high schools listed in the Florida Educational Directory, 140 schools were randomly selected. Textbook utilization throughout the state was compared by geographic regions, school size and community size. Instructional time tended to be greater in small schools in small communities while the laboratory time tended to be greater in medium size schools in urban communities.
24319384|The Florida Solar Energy Center was established in 1975, pursuant to legislative directive in 1974, with authorization to conduct research, disseminate information, and develop demonstration projects relating to solar energy utilization in Florida. Under the State Board of Regents, the Center is developing and conducting a variety of programs in research, development, demonstrations, education, information dissemination, and energy systems analysis. Federal research programs in solar energy are related to the programs of the Center and have impact upon the work pursued there. The congressional mandate for establishing a national solar energy research institute has resulted in both optimism and intense proposal effort within Florida to have that research institute headquartered within the state. The Solar Energy Center interacts with a task force appointed by the Governor of Florida which has responsibility for preparation of the state's proposal. Utilization of solar energy is possible in a variety of ways. Some end uses of solar energy are technologically feasible now; some systems are approaching economic feasibility in comparison with other forms of energy; and some systems require significantly more research to establish their feasibility. Commercialization of solar energy will proceed at a rate consistent with the progress in research and development for advancing systems feasibility. As solar energy technology advances, the Solar Energy Center will continue programs of current information dissemination and training. The Center is promoting and coordinating this effort in Florida and is directly involved in research and development work with support and participation from many other organizations and individuals.
24320336|Variations in concentrations of pore water constituents in sediments beneath mangrove communities in the Indian River lagoon are related to the physiology of the mangroves and tidal inundation regimes of the sediments. Both Rhizophora mangle and Avicennia germinans increase concentrations of sulfate and chloride in pore water by partial exclusion of salts from water taken up by transpiration. Sulfate is excluded by the plants to a greater extent than chloride, elevating pore water sulfate: chlorinity ratios. Changes in pore water sulfide, iron, phosphate, and nitrate concentrations appear to be coupled to seasonal and shorter term variations in tidal inundation frequency. Differences in sulfide concentrations of the 2 zones suggest that heterotrophic microbial activity is greater in Rhizophora sediments than in Avicennia sediments. Total rates of microbial metabolism may be similar in both zones if microorganisms in Avicennia sediments utilize a wider range of terminal electron acceptors than are available in Rhizophora sediments. Large variations in the dissolved Fe concentrations of Avicennia pore water may mean that iron serves as an important terminal electron acceptor for heterotrophic microorganisms.
24320023|Urban wet detention system investigations were conducted at a commercial shopping mall in Boynton Beach, FL. This study site possessed a permitted drainage area of 25.4 ha (62.8 ac), which was approximately 90 percent impervious. The water management area consisted of three interconnected ponds, each approximately 1.2 ha (3 ac), totaling 3.5 ha (8.7 ac). This site was instrumented with automatic water quality samplers to collect storm-generated runoff samples. In addition, digital stage measurement equipment continually monitored and recorded both surface and ground water elevation. Storm event sampling was initiated upon advent of rainfall in excess of 1.3 cm (0.5 in) of precipitation over the watershed boundaries. Surface runoff inflow automatic samplers were flow proportionally activated by an electromagnetic flow sensor device. Surface water results indicate the following treatment efficiencies for select nutrients: NOx-N = 87 percent, NH4-N = 55 percent, TKN = 58 percent, o-PO4-P = 69 percent, T-PO4-P = 76 percent, and TSS = 91 percent. These results were collated with previous results in the literature and comparisons indicated superior treatment efficiencies.
24321581|Large aggregations of juvenile lemon sharks, Negaprion brevirostris, have been repeatedly documented along Atlantic beaches of Cape Canaveral, east-central Florida, since November 2003. These sharks commonly inhabited sheltered longshore troughs along an otherwise high-energy coastline, a behavior facilitating both observation and collection. Repeated visual surveys along a fixed beach transect over a 16 month period, as well as 12 months of subsequent observations at other beach locations, demonstrated that lemon sharks, while present year-round, were most abundant from November through March at water temperatures ranging from 18 to 22C in densities up to 21.8 animals/km. Shore-based sampling yielded 267 juveniles from 48149 cm precaudal length (PCL) with a female : male sex ratio of 1.05 : 1. Tag returns to date suggest a northward spring migration as far as North Carolina (645 km). High lemon shark density may be the result of a predator refugia and foraging opportunities provided the region's expansive sub-tidal shoals as well as the protection from harvest afforded by a local de facto 250 km2 no-take marine reserve which was in place from 2001 to 2007. These findings indicate that nearshore waters of Cape Canaveral serve as one of the most valuable lemon shark nurseries in U.S. waters.
24321255|A survey was conducted by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to assess habitat quality on the St. Marks National Wildlife Refuge (NWR). Sediment samples were collected at 32 sites within (n = 14) or north (n = 18) of the NWR. The survey showed only site and use-specific contamination. Much of the surveyed area possessed little or no contaminant residues. Sediment composition around St. Marks NWR was comparable to coastal areas of the northeastern Gulf of Mexico. Metal contamination of sediments was not found on-refuge but was found at 6 off-refuge sites and included moderate concentrations of copper and mercury. Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) contamination was also not found on-refuge, however, off-refuge PAH contamination was slightly more widespread than metal contamination being found at 9 off-refuge sites. No organochlorine contamination was detected in samples taken on or off-refuge. Sixteen sites, including both on and off-refuge sites, were found to have relatively high concentrations of aliphatic hydrocarbons. Oil and grease contamination was found at 11 sites total, but at only 1 site on the NWR. The survey objective was to provide baseline information from which to determine the need for additional monitoring and for use in developing management strategies.
24321592|Presence of Cryptotis parva and Blarina carolinensis within Everglades National Park has not been documented in over 30 years. Between February 2007 and February 2008 we conducted live trapping, field reconnaissance, and an examination of owl pellets in Everglades National Park. We captured one C. parva and sighted one C. parva and two B. carolinensis. Dissection of owl pellets revealed five C. parva and 16 B. carolinensis. Analysis of owl pellets was the most effective method of detecting presence of shrews.
24321439|The response of Old World climbing fern (OWCF) and non-target vegetation to herbicide and fire was evaluated in three disturbed habitats in southern Florida. Aerial herbicide application and prescribed fire occurred at two sites, and a ground herbicide treatment with no prescribed fire occurred at one site. Significant (P < 0.008) reductions in OWCF cover at all three study sites were observed compared to pre-treatment cover. A significant increase in species richness (P = 0.002) and diversity (P = 0.0003) was detected following post-aerial treatments in open canopy freshwater marsh habitat, with most of these species being non-native graminoids and forbs. In hydric hammock, we observed no significant increase in species richness (P = 0.61) or diversity (P = 0.92), but we observed a shift towards non-native forbs. In the maple swamp where ground treatments were conducted, no significant difference in species richness (P = 0.34) was noted, but a significant difference (P < 0.0001) in native species diversity was detected. We hypothesized that herbicide treatment followed by prescribed fire creates open niches that provide opportunities for more competitive non-native plants. In disturbed habitat in Florida, land managers controlling OWCF may observe a shift from OWCF to other non-native plants.
24321652|We examined the riparian vegetation along the five main tributaries to Estero Bay, Lee County. Florida. Riparian vegetation serves as a non-motile integrator of salinity conditions over time, and may prove useful for detecting shifting salinity gradients associated with altered freshwater flow. An objective of this project was to refine our understanding of the freshwater/estuarine interface in the Estero Bay tributaries, using riparian vegetation as ecosystem indicators. We directly sampled 0.9 ha and documented 126 plant species or genera. Variation in riparian vegetation communities among tributaries and position along tributaries seemed to be related to degree and period of land use change. We examined changes in riparian vegetation through analysis of aerial photography from 1966, 1981 and 2002. Historic patterns of shifts in riparian vegetation communities of Estero Bay tributaries are dominated by a loss of upland vegetation and an increase in human modified landscapes. A suite of freshwater and saltwater indicator species proved useful in distinguishing among tributaries, and particularly between positions along the tributaries. These indicator groups may be utilized for: documenting the ecological effects of alterations in freshwater flow; establishing restoration performance measures; and establishing Minimum Flows and Levels for tidally influenced streams of SW Florida.
24319737|Forty-four species and 6 varieties of diatoms (Bacillariophyta) collected from the upper Big Wekiwa River in Central Florida are listed.
24321580|Larvae of Cuterebra species (Diptera: Oestridae) typically parasitize either native rodents or lagomorphs in the Americas, but they can also infest domestic dogs, cats and other atypical hosts. This affliction (cuterebrosis) can seriously impact the health of these animals, but little is known about its geographic and seasonal occurrence, and the causative species have seldom been identified. In this report, a second instar of a Cuterebra sp. removed from the nasal passage of a domestic dog in Lake Co., Florida, is described, illustrated and tentatively identified. Based especially on its serpentine posterior spiracles, it is C. cuniculi, a lagomorph-infesting species apparently found only in Florida and Georgia. This appears to be the first published record for Florida of a domestic dog with respiratory cuterebrosis, and only the second published, substantiated record of canid cuterebrosis in the state.
24319501|Compartmentalization within science at the university level has led to narrower specialization in education and to a breakdown of basic unity in science. Commonly, the method of science is inadequately treated in both science courses and textbooks. Science education should stress individual experience, development of self-reliance, sharpening of the critical observational powers, and an interdisciplinary approach to problem solving. In our field course in nearshore marine environments in the Florida Keys for biology and geology students we try to stress these elements. Students are introduced to basic principles and concepts and to fundamental data as a basis for field work in the south Florida area. After a field-oriented introduction to the region, they concentrate upon developing and carrying out a research project. Normally, students from biology and geology work together on projects.
24320532|Florida sand pine scrub is a community type found on well-drained ridges and dunes. Some of these uplands escaped the periodic flooding of the Florida Peninsula. Organisms of Florida scrub are adapted to sterile sand, drought, and fire. Some species appear to be relicts. An annotated list identified 46 species of scrub endemic arthropods. Species are concentrated on the central ridges, especially the Lakes Wales Ridge. There appear to be cases of divergent evolution on different scrub islands. The high proportion of flightless species in the list may not reflect adaptation for island life. Detailed studies of biogeography of scrub endemic arthropods may be thwarted by rapid eradication of many scrub sites.
24320010|From 1975-1982 the hydrologic and vegetation response of selected cypress domes and marshes in the Cypress Creek Well Field to deep underground pumping was compared to similar sites far removed from water production activities. After water production began, 5 of the 7 wellfield study sites experienced 1 to 5 consecutive years without standing surface water. Control sites had some surface water each year despite differences in yearly precipitation. Wellfield study sites with at least 2 yr without surface water showed a complete loss of typical deep-water aquatic plant species such as pickerelweed (Pontederia cordata) and rush (Juncus repens). At various wellfield impacted sites, maidencane (Panicum hemitomon), willow (Salix caroliniana), blue maidencane (Amphicarpum muhlenbergianum), dog fennel (Eupatorium capillifolium) and buttonweed (Diodia virginiana) became abundant. Vegetation at the control sites was quite stable from 1 yr to the next.
24320469|The demography of gopher tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus) is poorly known. We excavated 1019 tortoise burrows and determined the size class distribution of a west-central Florida population of gopher tortoises. We captured 400 tortoises. Both very small juveniles and very large adults were poorly represented in this population, relative to intermediate sized individuals. The estimated annual mortality rate was 92.3% from nest-egg through the first year of life. Using the correction factor (0.614) frequently employed to estimate tortoise population size, results in an overestimate of this population by a factor of 1.4. We caution against the generic use of this correction factor to estimate tortoise population size and suggest using site- or habitat-specific correction factors.
24320475|Studies were conducted from April to September, 1988, on the feeding ecology, dietary overlap, diel patterns of activity and temperature relationships of sympatric populations of the eastern spadefoot toad (Scaphiopus holbrooki) and the southern toad (Bufo terrestris) from Hillsborough Co., FL. A high degree of dietary overlap was found. Insects such as Coleoptera (19-31%) and Formicidae (12-18%), as well as spiders (8-11%), comprised a significant proportion (39-60%) of the diet by volume during spring and summer months. Termites comprised 7-1% of the diet during the spring. No significant overall dietary differences were found between sexes or seasons. Both species were active at body temperatures ranging from 23.5 to 24.4C. Bufo terrestris was not observed at the surface before 2000 hr. The peak period of ground surface activity was 2100-0100 h for S. holbrooki and 2200-0300 h for B. terrestris.
24320261|Twenty major groups of extinct animals with a good fossil record had some of the following characteristics. There is an uncommonly high percentage of suspension feeders and colonial animals. Most of the colonial animals were probably suspension feeders. Seventeen of these groups of animals were confined to a marine habitat and all were aquatic. None had a skeleton composed of silica. The skeletal material in these animals was calcareous, phosphatic, or chitinous, or some combination of these materials.
24320610|This work explores surface interactions between gypsum and selected prominent gaseous emissions in to the atmosphere. Gypsum is a common air-borne mineral particulate that has a potential two-fold relationship to the air pollution problem: as a particulate pollutant and as a catalyst or adsorbent for pollutant gases. The Florida atmosphere represents a situation where sources of gypsum particulates are especially abundant from both natural sources and anthropogenic activities. This work explored the adsorption of eight gases (nitric oxide, nitrous oxide, ammonia, hydrogen sulfide, carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, oxygen, and propane) at 24C as representative of gases present in the atmosphere. Propane, hydrogen sulfide, and oxygen were not adsorbed at pressures less than one atmosphere. Coverages were related to a monolayer based upon a surface area of 17.0 m2/gm as determined from a nitrogen adsorption isotherm and the B.E.T. method. Multilayer coverages were observed for ammonia, nitric oxide, carbon dioxide, and sulfur dioxide. Both reversible and irreversible adsorption were observed. Irreversible coverages of 0.52, 0.37, 0.41, and 0.33 monolayer were observed for SO2, CO2, NO, and NH3, respectively. Nitrous oxide and carbon monoxide did not have an irreversible component to their adsorption.
24321594|Identifying adult frog species in the field generally is straightforward; however, differentiating among tadpoles may be less clear and may complicate conservation and management activities. We described both the qualitative and quantitative morphological differences of tadpoles of a rare endemic species, Florida Bog Frog (Rana okaloosae), and a more common heterospecific, Bronze Frog (Rana clamitans clamitans). Rana okaloosae tadpoles had more pronounced tail spotting, greater pigmentation on the tail, and more defined ventral spotting than R. c. clamitans. The mean proportional tail height of fresh specimens and preserved specimens of R. c. clamitans was greater than R. okaloosae (fresh: P = 0.043, t = -2.10, n = 20/species; preserved: P = 0.026, t = -2.43, n = 10/species). The mean proportional length of the P3 tooth row was greater in R. c. clamitans than in R. okaloosae (P < 0.0001, t = 9.58, n = 10 and 5, respectively). In the field, qualitative assessment of tail coloration and ventral spotting patterns appear useful in identifying tadpoles of these species. Additionally, the differences in the length of the P3 tooth rows may help to positively identify the two species of tadpoles, but will only be feasible for anaesthetized or preserved specimens.
24320058|Stomach analyses were performed on 53 white marlin, Tetrapturus albidus; 11 sailfish, Istiophorus platypterus; and 5 blue marlin, Makaira nigricans captured in the Gulf of Mexico, 30-100 km S of Pensacola, Florida from May to October, 1974. Stomach content analyses were conducted using frequency of occurrence, numerical, and gravimetric (wet wt) methods. Stomachs of white marlin and sailfish most frequently contained Euthynnus sp., Auxis sp., squid, and Atlantic moonfish, Vomer setapinnis. White marli were also reported for the first time feeding on barracuda and puffers. Thunnus sp., Euthynnus sp., and Auxis sp. were most common food items of blue marlin, however, cephalopods may be of some importance in their diet.
24321812|This literature review relates to the ecological roles of native crayfish, Procambarus alleni (Everglades crayfish) and P. fallax (slough crayfish) in Everglades food webs. In freshwater wetlands, these keystone species influence community structure, alter landscape, and as herbivores and detritivores, enhance microbial decomposition and nutrient cycling. Crayfish are consumed by more than 40 species of vertebrate predators, and often are predators themselves. Hydrological and seasonal conditions affect crayfish abundance and distribution, and ecological roles. Researchers have relied on studies of crayfish from lakes and streams, with little focus on wetlands and on species-specific predator-prey roles and life histories of native crayfish. Presented here is a conceptual model of native crayfish relationships in Everglades food webs, and lists of possible prey and predators of these two species. Trophic roles of these crayfish may differ. The more aggressive P. alleni could be to top aquatic predators during times of low water levels and the initial return of the rainy season, while the less aggressive P. fallax may also function as top aquatic predators under other hydrological conditions. Future studies, including isotopic analyses, are needed to better understand the roles of both species in Everglades food webs.
24321983|Central Florida's Volusia Blue Spring is a hypoxic freshwater spring containing a large population of the non-indigenous air-breathing loricariid Pterygoplichthys disjunctivus. Our primary objectives were to describe the respiratory anatomy and air-breathing behavior of P. disjunctivus. We found that P. disjunctivus has gill filaments partially covered by fleshy gill rakers, and a large gastric air-breathing organ encased by an inelastic fibrous sheath, similar to that described in several other loricariids. We had hypothesized that P. disjunctivus would surface for air more frequently at the anoxic headspring (dissolved oxygen (DO) = 0.10 mg/L) than 360 meters downstream, where the DO is five times higher, however, this was not supported by our data. Because many air-breathing fish exhibit group surfacing behaviors to avoid predation, we had also hypothesized that P. disjunctivus would display temporal aggregation during air-breathing activity, and this hypothesis was supported. Our field results, along with laboratory observations of captive P. disjunctivus relying exclusively on oxygenated water, suggest that this species is a facultative air-breather with a DO threshold higher than that found in the Blue Spring run.
24321227|The alligator snapping turtle, Macroclemys temminckii, is capable of detecting and responding to the presence of chemosensory cues from two naturallyoccurring prey species, the Mississippi mud turtle, Kinosternon subrubrum, and the common musk turtle, S. odoratus. Preference tests were conducted in an experimental chamber in which juveniles of M. temminckii were exposed to dechlorinated water in one-half of the chamber and an odor plume from water that had been occupied by either S. odoratus or K. subrubrum. Juveniles of M. temminckii spent significantly more time in water containing prey odor cues and also exhibited more rapid movements and more frequent episodes of gular pumping, as compared to those exhibited by turtles in untreated water. The ability to utilize odor cues is discussed with respect to detection of prey and patch residence time.
24320751|In this paper we report a case of predation by squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus) on a solitary-roosting evening bat (Nycticeius sp., Veristomillidae). The monkeys, translocated to South Florida from South America, now inhabit a 35 acre home range on which they have been established for decades. The monkeys were successful in obtaining bat prey despite the presence of potential competitors for that prey, e.g., raccoons. Predation upon bats is very rare among nonhuman primates. This report is the only confirmed instance of bat predation by nonhuman primates living in Florida, and the only report for this species. Only squirrel monkeys of the closely related S. oerstedii species have been reported to be regular predators on bats in Costa Rica. The monkeys we observed have successfully adapted their foraging behavior to this unique South Florida habitat despite their having originated elsewhere in the Neotropics.
24319747|The morphological development of 27 prenatal Key deer (Odocoileus virginianus clavium) was described in 10 stages encompassing the late embryo and late fetus. Ages were estimated by interpolations involving length or the cube root of weight and assigned ages of youngest and oldest specimens. The chronological emergence of 37 characteristics was evaluated within Odocoileus. Although broad generic similarity was found, 3 discrepancies of 16-32 da were noted between the northern white-tailed deer (O. v. borealis) and the Rocky Mountain mule deer (O. hemionus hemionus). Comparisons involving O. v. clavium revealed inter- and intraspecific discrepancies greater than likely aging error. Based on the relative distribution of these differences, the chronology for O. v. clavium seemed no more similar to that of O. v. borealis than to that of O. h. hemionus. Also, 4 of the characteristics that reportedly developed at similar times in O. v. borealis were not synchronous in O. v. clavium. A rank order analysis indicated that the relative development of selected integumentary traits was less variable in Key deer than has been reported for the Columbian blacktail (O. h. columbianus).
24319846|Our method for fixation of the chick's inner ear involves puncturing the soft temporal bone with a needle and directly flushing the membranous labyrinth with cold glutaraldehyde. The temporal bone is trimmed and immersed in the same cold, aerated fixative. This improved method eliminates the need to perfuse through the oval window and preserves better than vascular perfusion. The method is easy to perform and with practice can be completed in 45-60 sec.
24319576|Sphaerodactylus cinereus Wagler is shown to be the name for the Hispaniolan lizard currently called S. stejnegeri Cochran. The proper name for the former is S. elegans MacLeay. S. cinereus (sensu nobis) has 2 subspecies: S. c. cinereus which occupies the Cul de Sac plain in Haiti, and S. c. stejnegeri which occurs in northern Haiti from Gonaves east to St. Michel de l'Atalaye, and south along the Golfe de la Gonve as far as Pont Sond and St. Marc. No intergrades are known. An isolated population at Plaine Thoman on the northern slopes of the Massif de la Selle remains unnamed.
24321122|The late Pleistocene (Rancholabrean) fossil record of harvest mice in Florida consists of two species, Reithrodontomys humulis and Reithrodontomys fulvescens. The only extant species in the state is R. humulis, which occurs at four Rancholabrean localities. Today, R. fulvescens occurs only as far east as Mississippi, but is represented by a single mandible from Vero, Indian River County, Florida. This specimen was previously identified as R. humulis and later as Peromyscus polionotus, but dental and osteological characters permit confident allocation to R. fulvescens. This is the first synoptic description of fossil harvest mice from the Rancholabrean of Florida.
24320651|Larval growth of the flatwoods salamander, Amby stoma cingulatum, is describedfor two populations on the Gulf Coastal Plain of Florida. Hatchling larvae measured 7.5-11.5 mm snout-vent length (SVL). Estimates of growth and length of larval period varied from 1.69 to 2.54 mm/week and 11 to 18 weeks depending on site and cohort. Size at metamorphosis was similar between animals held in the lab (mean = 39 mm SVL) and animals observed in the field (mean = 42 mm SVL). The metamorphic process required approximately 10 days in the lab and involved a sequential series of changes in morphology and pigmentation.
24320652|Platinum compounds are of interest because of their antitumor activity. The best known example is "Cisplatin", cis-diamminedichloroplatinum(II) (cis-Pt(NH3)2Cl2), which is effective against a variety of human tumors. More recent studies have shown that nitric oxide produced by macrophages in the body can kill or stop the proliferation of tumor cells. This work explores the synthesis of Pt(TV) complexes by action of nitrogen dioxide gas, NO2, on aqueous monoethylenediamine Pt(II) solutions, or by action of nitric oxide gas, NO, on solutions of the complex in 2 M HNO3. In these systems, rapid oxidation ofplatinum(II) occurs which produces a blue intermediate, presumably a platinum(TV) nitrosyl complex, Pt-NO. These species undergo further oxidation in air at slower rates, which are a function of counter ions to produce pale yellow solutions from which the Pt(IV) nitro complexes, [Pt(en)(NO2)(Cl)3], and possibly [Pt(en)(NO2)3Cl], and the complexes or mixtures of [Pt(en)(NO2)(ONO)2(Cl)], [Pt(en)(NO2)3(ONO)2], and [Pt(en)(NO2)(ONO)3] were obtained. Physical measurements on [Pt(en)(NO2)(ONO)2Cl] and [Pt(en)(NO2)(ONO)3] complexes suggest that in vivo reduction may occur to give "Cisplatin " type drugs and NO for inhibiting or immobilizing cancer tumor cells.
24319848|The Midas cichlid, Cichlasoma citrinellum, is a polychromatic fish native to Nicaragua and Costa Rica whose color morphs range from cryptic gray to bright orange. In 1981 an established population of the Midas cichlid was discovered in a south Florida canal that contains 6 other species of established exotic fishes. Preliminary food habit studies indicate Midas cichlids in Florida feed on molluscs and other benthic material. A mean lower lethal temperature of 13 C was determined experimentally indicating range expansion in Florida may be limited to the area south of Tampa (approximately latitude 28N). This species brings the total number of established exotic fishes in Florida to 16, of which 11 belong to the family Cichlidae.
24320646|On 25 January 1994, a basking shark, Cetorbinus maximus, estimated to be 4.5 m TL (Total Length) was observed actively feeding along a distinct ocean surface front, which was oriented north to south in the offshore waters near Cape Canaveral, Florida. Satellite observations and surface oceanographic measurements made in the area revealed an acute sea surface temperature and clarity difference across the front. Additionally, seaweed (Sargassum sp.) and anthropogenic debris had collected along the interface between the two apparent water masses, making the zone visible for several kilometers. The shark was feeding at the surface along the warmer and more clear eastern side of the frontal boundary. This observation, coupled with past records, lends further support to the hypothesis that fronts may serve as important foraging areas for basking sharks.
24312041|Except for the very largest species of calcareous benthonic Foraminiferida (10 mm or larger), there appears to be only a slight trend toward a higher percentage of large-sized species in warm water. The agglutinated Foraminiferida have a slight trend toward larger size in cold water, and all of the largest species (20 to 40 mm) live in water that is less than 5 C.
24320546|Clutch viability of American alligators was evaluated on lakes Apopka, Griffin, Jessup, and Okeechobee, Florida, during 1983-86 to examine its association with alligator population trends. Clutch viability was lower (P < 0.05) on Lake Apopka and higher (P < 0.05) on Lake Griffin than on any other lake. Annual clutch viability rates declined (P < 0.05) on Lake Apopka during the study, but no trends in viability rate were detected on other lakes. Juvenile alligator density was relatively stable during 1980-87 on lakes Griffin and Jessup, but plunged to 10% of the 1980 level on Lake Apopka (P = 0.002), coincident with falling clutch viability. Viability rates were not related to clutch size but did increase with clutch weight (P = 0.013). Egg banding rates declined on lakes Apopka and Jessup and increased on lakes Griffin and Okeechobee. Unexplained mortality of large alligators was commonly observed on Lake Apopka. We discuss several possible causes of low clutch viability including pesticide contamination, shifts in the age structure of the breeding population, and density-related stress of the adult population, and we recommend a course for further investigation.
24319946|Monthly phytoplankton and zooplankton sampling at 12 stations in the upper and middle St. Johns River between October, 1983 and May, 1984 provided data for comparison with historical taxonomic data. Although zooplankton communities varied in composition throughout the river, the phytoplankton data revealed several trends. Centrate diatoms and single celled green algae, primarily Chlorella and Chlorococcum, were common in the upper river, which was characterized by low chlorophyll a. The blue greens Anacystis, Anabaena and Lyngbya were dominant in the more eutrophic middle section of the river, however. Periodic bloom conditions of blue green algae have been noted previously in the upper river lakes, and blooms also occurred during this study. These blooms may be related to high nutrient loading from agricultural pumping activities.
24319570|Blue crabs (Callinectes sapidus) fed on the scyphomedusae Cyanea capillata and Stomolophus meleagris.
24321903|Despite well established relationships between urban stormwater runoff and water quality degradation, few studies have examined disturbed landscape soil hydrology under varying conditions. Confounding variables in landscapes may be responsible for the lack of available data. Eighteen runoff boxes were backfilled with three soils representative of those observed in newly constructed urban landscapes in Central Florida to examine the influence of soil physical properties, antecedent soil moisture, and precipitation rate on stormwater runoff and leachate. At lowest antecedent soil moisture (40% plant available water) or lowest precipitation rate (2.5 centimeters per hour [cm hr-1]) tested, runoff and leachate volumes were negligible. However, significant runoff and leachate was observed at higher antecedent soil moisture levels (70% and 90% plant available water) and precipitation rates (5.1 and 7.6 cm hr-1). Soil infiltration rates among soils were greater than assessed precipitation intensities, yet significant runoff was recorded. This suggests infiltration measurements may not be a reliable indicator of stormwater runoff potential. Rather, stormwater runoff should be estimated through development and use of empirically derived models.
24320340|Three sites in the Indian River, Florida were studied to determine primary production in seagrass meadows. Production rates were obtained for 3 species of seagrasses (Thalassia testudinum, Syringodium filiforme and Halodule wrightii), associated epiphytic flora, benthic microalgae and phytoplankton. Photosynthetic rates for Indian River seagrasses in March and July ranged between 0.009-0.395 mg C/g dry wt-h for H. wrightii, 0.005-0.79 for T. testudinum, and 0.009-1.72 for S. filiforme. Epiphytic productivity per g dry wt varied considerably between stations and from season to season. Productivity maxima for H. wrightii and S. filiforme occurred at the Jim Island station; Thalassia testudinum demonstrated maximum photosynthetic response at Link Port. Phytoplankton, benthic microalgae and epiphytic production were similar at each station and increased slightly from March to July. However, their absolute importance in community productivity changed dramatically depending upon the contribution of the seagrass species.
24321582|A long-term investigation of the group characteristics and social affiliation patterns of Atlantic coast bottlenose dolphins was carried out in the Indian River Lagoon (IRL), Florida. Group characteristics and photo-identification data were collected during 477 boat-based surveys conducted in the IRL from 1996 to 2004. A total of 2,132 groups were encountered and photographed over the study period. Group size averaged 4.1 (SD = 3.43) and did not vary by season, but was higher during some yearly periods, and for sightings in the afternoon than in the morning. Further, groups with at least one calf (x = 5.5, SD = 3.80) were larger than groups without calves (x = 2.4, SD = 1.85). Overall, half-weight Coefficients of Association (COA) indices for these frequently sighted dolphins ranged from 0.09 to 0.83 (maximum values), showed that they preferentially associate and that associations were higher within sex class than between sex class. In the aggregate, IRL group characteristics mirrored those found in other southeastern U.S. bays and estuaries and suggest that similar behavioral processes are important across these different locations. These processes include: resource and habitat optimizing while foraging and forming affiliations, and developing a balance between the demands of foraging, predator defense and maternal care.
24321896|The impact of nitric acid (HNO3) and ozone (O3) on the bulk degradation of several graphitic structures including single walled nanotubes, multiwalled nanotubes (MWNT), graphite dust, and exfoliated graphite is measured quantitatively. While these oxidizing agents are accepted approaches to open the end caps of nanotubes, both compounds significantly degrade the graphitic compounds as measured by mass loss. FT-Raman spectroscopy is used to measure the impact on the different carbonaceous structures.
24320653|Measurements of chemical properties of spring water from an active tufa-forming site in Illinois, and an analysis of published data from four tufa sites in England have identified properties of water that involve tufa formation. These properties include a pH less than 8.34, a partial pressure of dissolved CO2 hyperbaric with respect to its normal atmospheric partial pressure, and supersaturation with respect to calcite. We suggest tufa formation is also aided by filamentous algae which provide crystal nucleation sites and a holding mass for water to accommodate CO2 diffusion and the slow kinetics of calcite formation.
24319945|This study addresses the effects of a childbirth preparation program which includes education concerning the cultural influences that shape birthing experiences and the use of biofeedback-assisted relaxation techniques to facilitate labor and delivery. Methodology included utilizing hospital medical records to determine time in labor and use of medications, a post-delivery questionnaire and recorded interview, and participant observation of a number of the subjects during their labor and delivery (N = 8). The subject's time in labor was reduced (31 percent for first time mothers; 51 percent for those with prior birth experience), medications required were minimal and responses to the post-delivery interviews indicated successful incorporation of culturally specific information to individual needs. The childbirth preparation program which addresses both the influences of cultural patterns on childbirth behavior and the effectiveness of deep relaxation on the labor process appears to improve both quantitative and qualitative childbirth outcome measures.
24319749|Terrestrial movements of Procambarus alleni leaving and entering a seasonal forest pond in NW Hillsborough Co., Florida were monitored daily for 14 mo. Terrestrial activity occurred almost exclusively during the rainy season from June to October, with large numbers of individuals moving overland during or shortly after periods of heavy rainfall. Migration to and from nearby swamps, river, and terrestrial burrows may explain the overland movements.
24319908|A range extension is reported (from the Panhandle to southern Florida) for the purple moonflower (Ipomoea turbinata). The species, originally perhaps from Mexico, has been established elsewhere in the southeastern U.S.A. for some years.
24320289|Biweekly rainfall was measured from an 87-station rainfall monitoring network located in Shark River Slough for 22 mo beginning in December 1977. Mean cumulative rainfall (201.7 cm) was 24% less than that calculated from 3 NOAA stations monitored daily at the periphery of the slough. Areal variability of precipitation within the slough ranges from 150 cm in the northeast area to more than 230 cm in southern area. Information gained on rainfall was used to design an efficient and accurate long-term rainfall network for this 1000 km2 area.
24319861|Planting of tree seedlings on reclaimed strip mined lands in Florida is subject to low survival rate and high expense. Oak or pine tree seeds, coated with growing medium containing nutrients, were successfully grown in open sun, provided the coated seeds were mulched. The growing medium or coating was also given a final coat of either Plaster of Paris or foamable polyurethane polymer in order to prevent its disintegration by the elements. This study is concerned with comparision of polymer coatings (including foamable hydrophilic polyurethane) with other coatings.
24320529|Of the 469 Florida sites with potential contamination identified as of May 1988, 39 are National Priorities List (NPL) sites and 23 are State Action sitesmaking them eligible for either the federal Superfund program or the state funded cleanup program. Thirteen of the Superfund sites are under state lead and 26 are managed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Forty one percent of Superfund sites are in the design or construction steps. Interim Remedial Measures (IRM) have been completed or are underway at 25 Superfund sites. Three of the Superfund sites have been proposed for deletion from the NPLthe cleanup completed or long term treatment installed and operating. Fifty two percent of the State Action Sites are in design or construction. IRM's have been completed or are underway at 7 State Action Sites. Remedial actions have been completed at 5 State Action Sites. Progress from site discovery to cleanup for all Florida sites is discussed along with the technical and institutional issues that affect the time it takes to complete the various stages of a cleanup.
24321997|Several important questions regarding the evolutionary history of sturgeon remain unanswered, including the relationship between chromosome number and ploidy level. The Gulf of Mexico sturgeon (Acipenser oxyrinchus desotoi), currently listed as "threatened" under the U. S. Endangered Species Act, is an anadromous fish found along the United States Gulf Coast and its associated rivers. It and its sibling subspecies, the Atlantic sturgeon, are considered one of the 120-chromosome ancestral members of the Acipenseridae. We describe preliminary data that support the argument that Gulf sturgeon have undergone incomplete re-diploidization since the ancestral. Early Jurassic, genome duplication event. We present 10 unpublished Gulf sturgeon-derived microsatellite loci that show evidence of tetrasomic inheritance (out of 33 total tested loci). Support for this argument includes clear stepwise patterns among alleles at all loci, a lack of consistent allele peaks that could be non-specific amplifications, and sequences from three alleles representing a single locus in one individual that are clearly homologous. The pattern of limited tetrasomic inheritance contradicts the established assumption that 120-chromosome sturgeons are effectively diploid and suggests that the process of re-diploidization in Gulf sturgeon is incomplete.
24319598|The biomass of man now far exceeds that of any other large-sized species of animal that has ever lived on earth.
24319465|Samples taken June-August, 1970, yielded 72 Cyanophyta, 46 Chlorophyta, 3 Euglenophyta, 44 Chrysophyta, and 2 Pyrrophyta.
24320454|This study identifies rainfall anomalies, timed with major El Nino events, in seven climatic divisions of Florida. The study also determines the statistical significance of these rainfall anomalies. The seasonal and annual climatology of rainfall is presented for seven climatic divisions of the State for the period 1895 to 1989. Periodogram analysis indicates 5- to 6-year variability in rainfall throughout most of Florida, in particular during winter and spring. Super-posed epoch analysis, utilizing only rainfall during the year prior to and concurrent with a major El Nino, shows that State-wide rainfall anomalies are timed with these Pacific events. The most significant anomalies are: (1) below normal rainfall over all of the State during winter and spring the year prior to an El Nino; and (2) above normal rainfall over all of the State during winter and spring the second year of an El Nino. Largest rainfall anomalies have occurred in the southern climatic divisions of Florida. During winters of the second year of El Nino, south Florida rainfall anomalies range from + 76 to + 94mm ( + 3.0 to + 3.7inches) depending on the climatic division. These anomalies are 45 to 66 percent above normal winter rainfall, and are significant at the 0.999 level.
24320348|Meteorological and hydrographie data were recorded over a 29-da period in the summer of 1981 to describe wind effects on long-period net displacement of water along the navigational channel of the southern Indian River lagoon, Florida. Tidal motions decreased with increasing distance from the ocean inlets at either end of the study area, enhancing wind effects. Tidal current speeds in the middle of the study area were 50% of those at the Fort Pierce Inlet, while the nontidal current variance increased by 27% over the same distance, and by 64% over that at the St. Lucie Inlet. A net displacement of water toward the north throughout the study area was coherent with windstress over time scales in excess of 2 da.
24320029|Observed X-ray powder diffraction data were interpreted with the aid of a calculated pattern based upon the known crystal structure. The results consist of a high quality standard powder pattern with the usual supporting data for an important compound which is not presently included in the X-ray Powder Diffraction File.
24321137|The Indian River Lagoon, Florida has been touted as the most diverse estuary in North America, yet the biodiversity of most biota is virtually unknown. Diatoms are abundant microalgae in this estuary, in planktonic, benthic, and epiphytic habitats. This account utilizes published records supplemented with personal observations to provide the first comprehensive summary of the diatom flora in this unusual estuary system. Apart from novel and cryptic species, 436 taxa are recorded, in 129 genera. The most diverse benthic genera were Mastogloia (36 taxa) and Nitzschia (24 taxa). Among planktonic genera were 38 taxa in Chaetoceros and 19 taxa in Thalassiosira. Sixty-two genera were represented by one species.
24321564|We determined soil preferences of nineteen federally-listed species by overlaying GPS points on soil polygons in nine major protected areas on the Lake Wales Ridge in Highlands County, Florida. We collected 1173 GPS points representing 2577 occurrences of 18 species of vascular plants and one terrestrial lichen. Among species, there is continuous variation in degree and type of specialization for soil groups. Six species were specialized for xeric yellow sands, two species were specialists for xeric white sands, and one species specialized in xeric scrubby flatwoods. Ten species were soil generalists. Xeric white sands (especially St. Lucie) supported the greatest number of occurrences of these listed species, but xeric yellow sands and Satellite soils (supporting xeric scrubby flatwoods) were also important. Other scrubby flatwoods soils, flatwoods soils and depressional soils were not important for these plants. Soil specialists (as compared to soil generalists) were less likely to be post-fire resprouters and had fewer occurrences, but higher population sizes, among the Highlands County locations surveyed. Many locations of suitable soils are unoccupied by these species, most likely because of fire suppression and dispersal limitations. As fire management progresses in protected areas, these parcels should be re-surveyed for the presence of listed species.
24319491|Marco Island estuary has undergone intensive study during a 4-yr period from July 1971 through July 1975. A general summary of the area's physical, chemical and biological makeup is presented here with emphasis on water chemistry and analyses of macroinvertebrate and fish communities. The estuary may be characterized as seasonally hypersaline with low concentrations of dissolved nutrients. Diversity of animal communities is high with elements of both the West Indian and Carolinian Provinces present. Maximum diversity for epibenthic invertebrates and fishes was associated with seagrass meadows and for the benthic infauna with predominantly coarser substrates (100-500 m). In addition, several species of invertebrates and fishes exhibited distinct seasonality, becoming scarce during the cooler months. A comparison is also made between artificial waterways and natural mangrove tidal creeks and open bays. The results demonstrate that for the infaunal community considerable differences occur between the two areas. Less pronounced differences, however, are apparent in the canal fish community which most closely resembles that of the unvegetated open bay area.
24320962|The hammock region of Hernando County is part of a larger hammock belt, termed "Big Hammock" by Harper (1911, 1921), which occupies parts of Citrus, Hernando, and Pasco Counties in central Florida. The Hernando Hammock sub-region contains the most significant natural features of Big Hammock, in particular, its two principal geographic entitiesthe Annuteliga Hammock and the Chocochatti Hammock. Hernando Hammock is extremely diverse in terms of its topography, soils, plant communities, and animal populations; there-fore, it is characterized by unusually high quality wildlife habitat and exceptional species richness. Large parts of the Hammock have been altered as a result of agriculture, industry, transportation, and, more recently, by suburban development. Efforts are being made to preserve at least a small part of the area in its current condition.
24319530|The region of the West Florida Shelf known as the Florida Middle Ground is situated along the boundaries of three water masses, the Gulf Loop Current, the West Florida Estuarine Gyre, and the Florida Bay Waters. During the summer circulation patterns are principally derived from the Loop Current, tidal forces, and water column stratification. Winter circulation is primarily dependent upon wind and tide as the generating forces. The oceanographic conditions of the region result in high water column zooplankton standing crops. These populations are comparable to those reported from regions of upwelling.
24321900|Concerns over water estuarine water quality degradation have prompted Florida environmental agencies to examine potential ecological responses of the Caloosahatchee River and St. Lucie Estuaries (CRE and SLE) to excess nutrient inputs. Understanding estuarine responses to external nutrient loading requires knowledge of internal biogeochemical cycling. This study examined the sediment-water interface in January-February 2008 to quantify internal recycling of dissolved oxygen (O2), inorganic nitrogen (DIN), and inorganic phosphorus (DIP). Approximately 50 intact sediment-water cores were collected from each estuary and incubated under both light and dark conditions. Hourly changes in water column concentrations were measured to calculate sediment-water exchange rates and combined with a suite of sediment, porewater, and water column variables. Salinity, submarine light penetration, sediment chlorophyll, O2 efflux, and sediment DIN uptake were positively correlated in the CRE but not in the SLE. Sediments accounted for 6785% and 50%, of total ecosystem respiration in the CRE and SLE, respectively. Assuming Redfield stoichiometry, this level of benthic respiration could supply 1239% (CRE) and 6.529% (SLE) of the nitrogen required for primary production. Total internal production of DIN was 15.0 and 5.8 times greater than surface water loading to the CRE and SLE, respectively, with benthic DIN flux replacing water column DIN at double the rate of surface inflow during the particularly dry period in early 2008. The sediment-water interface is where light penetration and sediment biogeochemistry interact to influence primary production, material processing, and net metabolism at the estuary scale.
24321671|Horseshoe crabs, Limulus polyphemus, typically inhabit estuaries with pronounced tides that influence the timing of reproduction. However, many of the cues known to mediate spawning and larval hatching are absent in the Indian River Lagoon (IRL) since much of the area is microtidal. This review summarizes our recent studies of the reproductive ecology of L. polyphemus in the IRL that focused on the potential impact of microtidal conditions on the timing and frequency of mating, spawning, and larval hatching and abundance. Extensive surveys conducted throughout the northern region of the IRL indicated that spawning occurs year-round but is aperiodic. Throughout the sampling period, larval abundances were low, despite the fact that environmental conditions were suitable for their survival and development. Peaks in larval abundance were independent of spawning events but were linked to changes in water level. Laboratory experiments indicated that conditions associated with periods of high water, including inundation and mechanical agitation, may facilitate hatching, resulting in short-term peaks in larval abundance. In general, the reproductive ecology of L. polyphemus in the IRL differs markedly from populations in tidal areas. However, results indicate that spawning and larval hatching are cued by environmental conditions that are similar to those associated with tidal changes.
24320223|Eggs of Echinaster sp. (Type II) were fertilizd at field temperature and salinity levels of 25C and 32. Embryos were transferred to 20, 25, 30C and 25, 32, 39 S 2 da after fertilization. At 39, at all temperatures, approximately 45% of all metamorphosed individuals exhibited ray number abnormalities, with 4-ray individuals predominating over 3-ray individuals by a ratio of 2:1. Metamorphosed individuals at 25 and 32 S had the normal 5 rays. These data indicate that salinity can influence ray formation during early development.
24320148|In several mangrove and shoreline plant communities in the Tampa Bay area bryophytes were found in all of the sites examined. Thirty taxa of both mosses and liverworts were collected from a variety of soil and corticolous substrates including Avicennia germinans (L.) L., Conocarpus erecta L. and Laguncularia racemosa (L.) Gaertn. f. The occurrence of bryophytes in coastal plant communities which are influenced by maritime environmental conditions is briefly reviewed.
24321991|Sabal palmetto (cabbage palm) is a native palm species used commonly in urban landscaping throughout Florida. In addition to its aesthetic appeal and high tolerance to the variable environmental conditions found in Florida, the use of cabbage palms in landscaping should be expected to promote urban wildlife because the tree provides food and nesting sites for various organisms, including arthropods. In this study, we compared arthropod number, abundance, and biodiversity in cabbage palms between natural and landscaped environments. Trees in natural environments supported more individuals and greater species richness than trees in landscaped environments. Environmental factors, such as human activity and depauperate botanical communities, might explain why landscaped cabbage palms supported fewer arthropods. This suggests that landscaping with isolated native trees, such as the cabbage palms in this study, in an otherwise lawn-manicured environment might have adverse effects on biodiversity as predicted by island biogeography. Natural and landscaped palms supported a similar diversity of transient arthropods, which were primarily involved either directly or indirectly with pollination. Transient arthropods were found flying around cabbage palms, which might explain the ability of the arthropods to use landscaped trees. Increased use of native species such as S. palmetto in urban landscapes should have a positive effect on urban wildlife that can disperse broadly, such as flying arthropods and birds.
24321799|Lake Thonotosassa is a hypereutrophic lake in west central Florida and the largest natural freshwater lake in Hillsborough County. The Environmental Protection Agency established Total Maximum Daily Loads (TMDLs) for lead in Lake Thonotosassa in 2005. The lake was determined to be impaired for lead based on three exceedences of the EPA's chronic water quality criterion of 2.70 ppb during 2002. The EPA report suggested that a possible source for the lead was from resuspension of contaminated bottom sediments during storm events. The Environmental Protection Commission of Hillsborough County (EPCHC) conducted a study in May 2008 to test for sediment contamination from lead and other metals and to map the distribution of metals in the lake. Results from this study found that most metals, including lead, had sediment concentrations below the Florida state sediment quality guidelines. Highest concentrations for most metals were found associated with high silt/clay sediments in the deeper sites on the west end of the lake. Arsenic, tin, and antimony, however, had highest concentrations at shallow sites. This was attributed to the higher solubility of these elements under the reducing conditions found in the deeper portions of the lake and their subsequent precipitation in the more oxygen rich shallow areas. Overall, there was little evidence that sediment contamination for metals was an issue within Lake Thonotosassa.
24321467|A keystone species and ecosystem engineer, the eastern oyster Crassostrea virginica plays a vital role in estuarine environments. Recently, concern for this resource has arisen in Mosquito Lagoon, Florida. Intense boating activity has caused atypical dead margins (mounds of disarticulated shells) to emerge on oyster reefs located adjacent to major boating channels. Once dead margins are formed, little is known about their influence on reef communities. This study focused on the impact of dead margins on: (1) oyster reef architecture, (2) species diversity, and (3) predation on oyster spat. Structural differences were compared between oyster reefs with no dead margins (reference reefs) and those with dead margins. To determine if dead margins influenced the diversity of mobile species inhabiting oyster reefs, lift nets were deployed across both reef types. Lastly, structural variables (i.e. shell orientation, single versus shell clusters, reef slope) were manipulated in field experiments and effects on oyster predation were observed. Dead margins significantly reduced habitat complexity and species diversity on oyster reefs. Reference reefs had four-fold more live oysters, twice as many shell clusters, and significantly higher community metrics (i.e. species richness, density, biomass). Structural variables did not alter predation efficiency of any of the tested predators.
24322458|Minute black scavenger flies (Diptera: Scatopsidae) were collected in traps baited with octenol and a proprietary "human scent bait" on Key Largo, Long Key, and Vaca Key, Monroe County, Florida. Two species were identified: Holoplagia guamensis (Johannsen), new to the United States and Florida, and Neorhegmoclemina bisaccatum Cook, previously known from Iowa, New York, and northern Florida.
24321666|This study investigates the Holocene evolution of two distinctly different geomorphic regions of the barrier island system in east-central Florida. The northern region is comprised of high relief, shore-parallel beach ridges with a rhythmic lagoon shoreline. Subdued local relief in the southern region reflects the presence of a single primary dune and relict recurved sand spits with an irregular lagoon shoreline. A coarsening-upward sediment sequence observed in the Indian River Lagoon (IRL), is indicative of Holocene marine transgression. The barrier island in the northern region consists of a regressive sandy shoreline sequence reflecting the presence of progradational beach ridge sets. A transgressive sediment succession beneath the barrier island in the southern region is associated with the presence of recurved sand spits, relict tidal-inlet channelfill and flood delta sediment. These observations suggest temporal and spatial variation in sediment supply is responsible for the small-scale differential evolution of this barrier island segment. Radiocarbon dates indicate the IRL basin was initially flooded approximately 7,000 yr B.P. Late-Pleistocene bedrock elevations are relatively shallow beneath the barrier island in both regions. This antecedent topography stalled the landward retreat of the barrier island coincident with Strandline flooding.
24320756|The jaguar guapote (Cichlasorna managuense,) was added to Florida's list of established exotic fishes in 1995. Jaguar guapotes were collected for 12 consecutive months from the Little River Canal (C-7), Florida. Fish and insects were the primary food. Males grow larger than females (only three of 59 guapotes 301 mm TL were females). During 199495, jaguar guapotes spawned primarily between March and November with a peak in July. Fecundity estimates for ripe female jaguar guapotes averaged 4,053 (n = 17; 29 eggs/g whole fish weight).
24320479|Two species of Calystegia are known from Florida. Calystegia catesbeiana is a rare southeastern U.S. endemic, being known in the state from a single locality. Calystegia sepium ssp. limnophila is widespread in the state, extending from the southern tip of the peninsula into the western part of the Panhandle.
24322137|Life history characters of the spotted seatrout (Cynoscion nebulosus) have tremendous potential to discern trends in environmental conditions within and among estuaries. The species is widely distributed (i.e., from North Carolina to Mexico), is both commercially and recreationally important, and rarely leaves its home estuary. Thus, the estuarine conditions to which a population was subjected while growing could affect changes in its life history features such as growth. About 400 spotted seatrout were collected from April through July 2003 from the San Carlos Bay area of the southern portion of Charlotte Harbor in southwest Florida. Otolith sections were examined with enhanced imagery to facilitate recording age and annulus increments from the otolith. There was a significant relationship between otolith radius and fork length that differed between sexes. A comparison of back-calculated size at Age 1 for four year classes (19992002) indicated that there were significant differences in growth between year classes. Initial time-series analysis indicated the potential effects of seagrass density and salinity on fish growth. Salinity conditions are artificially manipulated in this estuary and this action may be responsible for the differences in growth rates observed for both males and females among year classes.
24320439|During winter and spring of 1986 a preliminary study to assess effects of large concentrations of manatees feeding on a Syringodium filiforme dominated seagrass flat in the north Banana River was conducted as part of the long term environmental monitoring program at the Kennedy Space Center, Florida. Aerial surveys were used to collect manatee distribution and abundance information. Data on the distribution, percent cover and biomass of seagrasses were collected from 50 randomly selected locations. Six exclosure cages paired with open plots (2.25 m2) were used to assess grazing affects. Percent cover of Syringodium filiforme at sites open to feeding was greatly reduced (90%) by manatees cropping the blades and mean shoot biomass was significantly (p = 0.03) reduced. Manatee distribution data showed a positive correlation with Syringodium filiforme (r = 0.65) and Halodule wrightii (r = 0.50), and a negative correlation with the macroalgae, Caulerpa prolifera (r = 0.74).
24321454|Amphibian populations worldwide have been declining for decades, largely due to habitat destruction, water pollution, and introduced species. Wetland impacts are often the cause of local amphibian declines. We studied the effect of alterations in wetland hydrology on frog and toad populations at Morris Bridge Wellfield (MBWF) in Hillsborough County, Florida. Frogs and toads in wetlands in zones of different surficial aquifer drawdown levels were studied to determine if hydrological differences resulting from groundwater pumping affected their populations. Nighttime call surveys and tadpole sampling were conducted at 16 wetlands in three drawdown zones from June through August 2004. While there was no significant relationship between the number of tadpole species and drawdown zone, the zone unaffected by groundwater pumping had significantly higher tadpole densities than the other zones. No correlation was found between the number of species calling in each wetland and the number of tadpole species captured. Cuban treefrogs (Osteopilus septentrionalis), an introduced species that competes with and consumes native frogs, comprised 48% of tadpoles captured and were found at 50% of the wetlands studied. This marks the beginning of a long-term study of the interaction between the impacts of hydrological alterations and introduced species on native frogs and toads at MBWF.
24319947|The role of age factors (e.g. where persons over 65 live in Florida) is considered in comparing the heart and colorectal cancer death rates in 67 counties in Florida. The degree of association with age (percentage of those 65 and older) and heart death rate was r2 = 0.77 (p < 0.001); for age and colorectal cancer rate, the value was r2 = 0.63 (p < 0.001). The results are compared with land factors and the influence of age is shown to be a dominant factor, even with age-adjusted data for the heart death rates. The association of percentage of persons over age 65 years is less evident with colorectal cancer death rates, even though the latter are not age-adjusted. The importance of age factors may be the result of the unique population in Florida; that is, a rapidly growing state that has traditionally attracted a post-65-year population. As a consequence, age-adjusted factors that are based on an idealized 1940s population used for age-adjustment reflect an inadequacy of the population base for the present population.
24321377|Early work on marine and mangrove fungi was conducted at Biscayne Bay, Florida, including taxonomic, physiological and ecological studies. In this study, some 250 samples of mangrove wood were collected in and around Fort Pierce and the Florida Keys from the mangrove tree species Avicennia germinans, Conocarpus erectus and Rhizophora mangle. In addition, Thalassia testudinum, Salicornia virginica, and sand were collected for investigation of other species of marine fungi. Fifty-three marine and mangrove fungi were identified bringing the total species reported for Florida to 90. The fungi collected are compared with those reported from the Bahamas and the Atlantic Ocean.
24320442|Nearest neighbor tests of spatial dispersion using Monte Carlo procedures did not reveal pattern in a fabricated data set until applied separately to population subsets (i.e., males and females). An index of association was needed for map data from field experiments, so the statistic Kappa was evaluated and found inadequate for our purposes. Alternative statistics unfortunately are not available.
24320438|During December, 1989 low temperatures resulted in the thermal mortality of large numbers of Tilapia melanotheron in manmade aquatic habitats on central Merritt Island, Florida. Estimates of the number of fishes killed at four locations ranged from 23 to 2662. All locations were characterized by shallow water (<1.5 m), low salinities (7), and narrow connections (culverts or canals) to the Indian River lagoon system.
24320581|Kraft black liquor (KBL), a by-product of the paper pulp industry, was neutralized, treated and diluted to produce a material (10% neutralized KBL) that has the potential to retard the growth of Hydrilla verticillata (Royle) by shading. Phase one of the research is concerned with the mechanism of action: light reduction versus chemical toxicity. A Warburg bioassay indicated that addition of the dark liquid (10% neutralized KBL) inhibited oxygen production within an hour. A non-contact bioassay indicated the dark liquid significantly affected the light that hydrilla could receive; both the percent fresh weight change of hydrilla and light intensity were directly related to the log of the black liquor concentration (dilution with 10% Hoaglands). Change in fresh weight of hydrilla in 10% Hoaglands and diluted black liquor mixture was measured every 3-4 days. Pseudo-first-order rate constants for fresh weight change were calculated and found to be inversely related to the black liquor concentration, another indication of shading as a major, but not exclusive, mechanism of action.
24319568|Because of the unusual humidity of the Florida environment a special closed system has been developed for handling the sensitive photographic plates used in astronomical photography. In this system the plates are protected by a dry nitrogen atmosphere at all critical stages, including exposure at the telescope. The system confers substantial advantages over unprotected plates in stability, consistency, and sensitivity.
24321389|Agricultural impoundments represent potentially important habitat, but little information is available on the use of these areas by wildlife or how that use varies seasonally. We conducted weekly surveys during a 5-year period to document seasonal, annual, and habitat influences on the avian community of a 10.5-ha agricultural impoundment in southwest Florida. The impoundment included a mix of wetland and upland cover types typical of impoundments in the region. We recorded approximately 1/3 of the 229 potential native resident and migratory avifauna known to occur in the region, including 5 species of state or federally listed wading birds. Of the 85 species documented, 65% nested in southwest Florida, many of which were augmented by winter migrants. The avian assemblage was relatively evenly distributed and 5 of the 7 defined guilds were represented among the 8 most abundant species. Wetland cover types attracted the most species and birds, many of the most abundant of which were species known to use wetlands with relatively dense vegetation. Seasonal effects associated with changing wetland conditions and migratory species were principal factors influencing changes in the bird community. Numbers of species and birds were inversely related to the rainy summer months and positively associated with improved foraging conditions created by seasonal changes in water level. Annual effects were less important but species and numbers of birds declined during the year of lowest annual rainfall. Southwest Florida has thousands of hectares devoted to agricultural impoundments, the collective contribution of which may be extremely important for conservation of regional and migratory bird populations, yet almost nothing is known about the value of these habitats in working landscapes or how best to manage them for wildlife.
24321391|Using a series of drift fences, we examined the movements of four amphibians at a breeding site in the Florida panhandle during three consecutive breeding seasons. More Ambystoma cingulatum immigrated from pine savanna than from pine plantation. Eurycea quadridigitata immigrated equally from pine savanna and pine plantation one year, but exhibited bias towards pine savanna or pine plantation in other years. Pseudacris nigrita immigrants were randomly distributed around the breeding site in one year, but biased towards pine savanna in another. Pseudacris ornata immigrated without directional bias both years they immigrated. Biased immigration orientation presumably reflects preference for particular upland attributes, whereas lack of directional bias suggests surrounding uplands provide equally suitable habitat. Among-year differences in immigration orientation indicate that single-season studies could yield erroneous results. Ambystoma cingulatum was captured up to 100 m from the breeding site, and both Pseudacris species were captured up to 200 m from the breeding site (the maximum distance of our upland drift fences). Eurycea quadridigitata was captured up to 180 m from another nearby breeding site. Our observations suggest that land management considerations for these species should extend a minimum of 200 m from known breeding sites.
24321913|In order to identify plant species and communities that may be impacted by increasing urbanization in the coastal Apalachicola region of the panhandle of Florida, our study integrates plot level species data collection with GIS remote sensing. Two hundred and eighty-nine plant species were identified during field survey including fourteen Florida listed rare species. Hierarchical classification of plant species cover data yielded the identification of five upland habitats: bayhead, flatwoods, sand pine scrub, sandhill, and scrubby flatwoods. Classification trees were used to classify Landsat Thematic Mapper images and identify and map pine dominated habitats in the study area. Using the predicted rate of land use change from natural habitat to urban for the state of Florida, we estimate the loss of 437 ha of globally imperiled sand pine scrub and 621 ha of Florida imperiled sandhill habitats in the study area in the next 50 years. This land is predominately located nearest the Gulf of Mexico and knowledge of the potential impacts of urbanization on the marine and estuarine communities in this area is needed. This data is necessary in order to inform urban planning and help find a balance between economic growth and ecological stability for this and other seaside communities.
24319874|On the basis of 7 characteristics, C. pulchella darlingtoni is found to be a subspecies distinct from C. p. pulchella.
24321894|Increased anthropogenic loading of mercury (Hg) has caused elevated levels in biota. Tissue samples were collected from Apalachicola in 1995 and Chassahowitzka in 1997 and analyzed by Florida Department of Environmental Protection for total mercury. Hair collected from four individuals within the Chassahowitizka subpopulation had a mean mercury concentration of 0.673  0.281 g/g and a body-weight weighted mean concentration of 0.712 g/g. Whole blood collected from 21 Apalachicola bears had a mean mercury concentrations of 0.050  0.003 g/g with a body-weight weighted mean concentration of 0.052 g/g. To our knowledge this is the first report of Florida black bear blood and hair Hg concentrations. A baseline for Hg levels in Florida bears is important to assess potential risk of mercury exposure to other populations of black bears throughout its range.
24321932|Beachrock formations in Dry Tortugas National Park, USA, function as important nursery habitats for many reef fishes. During low tide, the northeast Loggerhead Key nursery is reduced to a series of small rockpools exposing fish to rapid and sometimes extreme temperature changes. We estimated the critical thermal maximum (CTmax) of juvenile frillfin goby, Bathygobius soporator, sergeant major, Abudefduf saxatilis, cocoa damselfish, Stegastes variabilis, and sailors choice, Haemulon parra, collected from nursery pools. Frillfin goby exhibited the highest CTmax (40.1  0.20C) followed by sergeant major (39.0  0.11C), cocoa damselfish (38.3  0.09C), and sailors choice (36.8  0.42C). All CTmax measures were statistically distinct and when compared to likely rockpool temperatures, suggest that juvenile fishes may depend on both physiological and behavioral adaptations to cope with rapidly fluctuating nursery temperatures.
24319573|Supernatant fractions obtained by mild acid hydrolysis of yeast phase Histoplasma capsulatum cell walls were active in eliciting delayed hypersensitivity skin reactions in H. capsulatum sensitized guinea pigs. Two peaks of activity occurred. The first or early activity was recoverable from the supernates almost immediately and persisted for 7 hr. The second or later activity became apparent at 15 hr and persisted through 48 hr of hydrolysis. The majority of the early activity was found to be released in the first 2 hr, while the later activity was released continuously between 15 and 48 hr. At least a portion of the material exhibiting the early activity was acid-stable. Skin-reactive materials were shown to be different from those involved in passive hemagglutination and fluorescence of the cell wall, as well as from those involved in precipitin reactions.
24320614|X-ray photoelectron binding energies of inner shell electrons of platinum and ligand nitrogen atoms were obtained in the series of platinum(II) diethylenetriamine (dien) complexes, [Pt(dien)X]Y, where X = CN-, $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{O}}_{2}^{-}$, I-, Cl-, and $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$ and where selected counter ions, Y = I-, Cl-, or $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$. The ordering deduced for the coordinated anions X- in [Pt(dien)X]Y complexes was compared with the ordering for the same ligands in the spectrochemical series, the nephelauxetic series and the trans-effect of coordination complexes. It was found that the XPS Pt(4f5/2) and Pt(4f7/2) values for these anions correlated quite well with the ordering of the spectrochemical series, while the XPS Pt(4d5/2) values correlated very well with the ordering in the nephelauxetic series. The XPS(dien)N(1s) values fit also quite well with the ordering of the trans-effect; however, no evidence was seen with the ordering of the secondary trans-effect.
24319859|The tolerance of Schinus terebinthifolius to saline conditions was investigated in order to determine its ability to invade and establish in coastal communities of the Everglades National Park. Viability of seed soaked in salt solutions for 72 hours declined as salinity increased, although 60 % of the seeds were viable after soaking in 40 ppt salt solution. Germination rates in petri dishes declined more sharply with salinity increases, with only 12 % germination at 20 ppt salt solution. On native soils treated with salt solutions, germination never occurred at salinities higher than 5 ppt. Survival of seedlings transplanted into field sites occurred only where soil salinities were 5 ppt or less. The findings suggest that Schinus is a potential threat to halophytic plant communities only where freshwater has replaced the higher salinity waters that initially fostered the salt tolerant plants.
44113159|Seagrass habitats support marine food webs and provide essential habitat for a variety of species. Seagrasses and associated algae at three locations along the Intracoastal Waterway in Broward County, FL were assessed for their trophic contribution to the marine organisms in the area. Two seagrass species, along with associated algae, invertebrates, and vertebrates, were analyzed for stable carbon and nitrogen isotope ratios to determine trophic relationships. Significant differences were found in C and  between both seagrass species and among the three sites. The C of Johnson's seagrass Halophila johnsonii ranged from 16.28 to 11.27 while shoal grass Halodule wrightii ranged from 15.78 to 13.36. The N for shoal grass ranged from 4.69 to 7.08 versus 0.80 to 7.86 for Johnson's seagrass. Neither seagrass species was a dominant food source and epiphytes appeared to be the greater trophic contributor. However, the C (16.28 to  11.27) and N (0.80 to 7.86) of both seagrass species did fall in the fractionation range of potential consumers suggesting that seagrass material could be ingested incidentally while grazing on epiphytes and other primary producers. Our results indicate that seagrass in Broward County are valuable both as a direct food source and as substrate for epiphytes.
24319968|Twelve satellite-tracked drifting buoys were released, one each month between April 1984 and March 1985, at the 75 m isobath, 70 km southeast of Cape Canaveral, FL. Starting in May 1984, 500 drift cards were also released at each buoy deployment from the same site (28.0N, 80.0W). In addition, satellite-tracked buoys from May 1979, September 1983, and February 1985, which drifted into or through the area, were studied for information about surface currents and particle trajectories. All 12 buoys from the 28N/80W launch site drifted north past Cape Canaveral (28.5N); only the May 1984 buoy drifted into the coastal zone off Mayport, FL (30.4N), although several others showed a tendency to do so in that area. Every buoy deployed within 5 km of the western edge of the Gulf Stream was entrained into the current, and some as far as 25 km were also entrained. The September 1983 bouy, which was deployed slightly west of 28N/80W, and the February 1985 buoy, which was deployed in the Gulf of Mexico, both came ashore near St. Lucie Inlet, FL (27.2N), 140 km south of Cape Canaveral. Drift cards from May, September, October, and November 1984, and February 1985 were recovered west and north of 28N/80W. Forty percent of the cards recovered were from south of Cape Canaveral; Cocoa Beach, FL (28.3N), and Pontevedra Beach, FL (30.2N), reported most of the returns. For those months when drift cards were returned, buoy trajectories showed little correlation with drift card vectors. Drift cards established the possibility of materials coming ashore along the Florida Atlantic coast, both north and south of Cape Canaveral, particularly in the autumn.
24321908|This paper is the result of ongoing research conducted at the University of North Florida, School of Engineering regarding carbon sequestration activities in Florida, USA. The issue of global climate change has led great interest to bear on reducing carbon emissions through new technologies such as geologic carbon sequestration. Engineers, scientists, and governing bodies across the globe have studied the costs associated with transporting carbon dioxide from point sources to repository sites but few have completed analysis for Florida. In 2007, Florida power plants accounted for over 143 million tonnes of CO2 emitted into the atmosphere. This report continues recently published cost analyses and transport optimization techniques for transporting carbon dioxide from power plants in Florida to proposed carbon repositories throughout the state. New transportation scenarios are introduced along with revised costs and transport optimization results.
24320948|Sodium fluorosilicate, a by-product of the production of phosphoric acid, is a nuisance material because of the tendency to build up in pipes and the need to remove the material from pipes. Samples of scale from the industry were analyzed and were tested in the presence and absence of magnetic fields (1200 and 2000 gauss). Enhanced solubility was noted in the presence of a magnetic field. The effect is ascribed to an increase in entropy as a result of the field, and the entropy increase results in an increase in the solubility of the scale. At room temperature, the solubility of fluorosilicate scale was 1.70g/100g, and at 50 C in the presence of a magnetic field it was increased by about 2528%.
24320331|Reproductive biology of 3 species of sea anemones was studied over an 8 mo period in the intertidal zone along the central Atlantic coast of Florida. Actinia bermudensis on the north jetty at Fort Pierce Inlet spawned at the end of September 1977; planulae were brooded throughout the yr. The sex distribution of 82 animals examined was 41 females, 5 males and 36 without gonads. Aiptasia pallida from Sebastian Inlet spawned in September 1977 and possibly in March 1978; the skewed sex distribution of 134 animals examined was 34 females, 2 males and 98 without gonads. Bunodosoma cavernata from the south jetty at Jupiter Inlet spawned in October 1977; planulae were brooded throughout the yr. The sex ratio of 75 animals examined was closer to one-to-one (19 females, 29 males, 26 lacked gonads, and 1 hermaphrodite).
24319806|Field and herbarium studies of the morning glory (Ipomoea) were made for Florida. Keys and illustrations are given for the state's 26 species.
24319546|Following a fall tomato crop, 9 vegetable crops were grown with or without additional fertilizer. The fall tomato crops received 283 kg/ha N, 112 kg/ha P2O5, 393 kg/ha K2O, and minor elements. The vegetable crops were fertilized at a rate of 220 kg/ha N, 112 kg/ha P2O5, and 112 kg/ha K2O, or were grown on residual nutrients alone. Additional fertilizer restricted or prevented to a greater degree the germination of carrot, green onion, lettuce and radish seeds, whereas residual fertilizer did not. The survival and growth of broccoli, cabbage, cauliflower, and kohlrabi transplants were also affected by additional or residual fertilizers. Zucchini squash was not significantly affected by excess salts.
24321836|Florida apple snails, Pomacea paludosa, are the nearly exclusive prey of the endangered snail kite, Rostrhamus sociabilis plumbeus. Declines in snail numbers have been documented in wetlands critical to snail kite populations and are especially concerning given the raptor's dependence on them. Stock enhancement of hatchery-reared snails into wild populations has been proposed, but a method for distinguishing wild from hatchery snails should be developed to gauge stocking success. We measured carbon and oxygen stable isotope values of Florida apple snail shells to evaluate their potential as natural tags to distinguish wild from hatchery-reared snails. Shells were obtained from hatchery snails (n = 24) reared in south Florida and two groups of wild snails (n=12, n=15) collected from Lake Kissimmee, Florida four months apart. Shells were analyzed for 13C and 18O values with stable isotope ratio-mass spectrometry (SIR-MS). Both isotope ratios were significantly different among the three groups (ANOVA; p<0.001), thus suggesting shell stable isotope ratios may serve as an effective natural tag to distinguish hatchery from wild apple snails. However, significant differences in 13C and 18O values also existed between wild groups, suggesting disparities in food sources and ambient water temperatures existed between wild groups.
24321432|Permits are one method to manage state listed species located on lands proposed for development in Florida. The data recorded on an application and issued permit document impacts to a species and, if applicable, mitigation for the impacts. As the number of permits issued accumulates over time the impact and mitigation data can be analyzed to help determine population trends, determine the amount of habitat lost or gained, evaluate the management strategy, and review progress toward permit goals. The purpose of this study was to quantify permit data collected from 1990 through 2005 for two state listed species in Florida: gopher tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus) and Florida burrowing owls (Athene cunicularia floridana). The permits examined included Special Tortoise Relocation Permit, Standard Tortoise Relocation Permit, Incidental Take Permit, and Migratory Bird Nest Removal Permit. For three of the four permits examined we were unable to either verify or quantify impacts due to permitting because of missing or inconsistent data. We suggest that management plans for state listed species include protocols defining and documenting standards for the quality control of permit data collection, entry, and management.
24319648|Additional records of the xanthid crab Allactaea lithostrota Williams, 1974 obtained at 4 localities in the West Indies Province extended its geographic range from North Carolina to the coast of Venezuela.
24320091|Identification of genera included in Crum and Steere Mosses of Porto Rico is simplified by provision of a generic key not included in the original work. The key is artificial and based upon vegetative characters.
24320316|Maximum densities of east-central Florida populations of the tropical peripheral fishes, Oostethus brachyurus lineatus, Gobiomorus dormitor, Awaous tajasica and Gobionellus pseudofasciatus occurred during the winter and spring months in the lower portions of freshwater tributaries to the Indian River lagoon. All populations declined during the wet season, reaching minimum levels during peak rainfall periods. Specific microhabitat requirements were observed for each species. These species have a limited Florida range which is discussed relative to various environmental parameters and dispersal mechanisms, such as water temperature regimes, oceanic current patterns and particular microhabitat preferences.
24319910|Fungal filaments from Millepora complanata Lamarck were observed after mass expulsion of zooxanthellae. The hijphae were characterized using light and scanning microscopy and Gomori's methenamine silver stain.
24322460|Three hundred and seventy-two Florida specimens of the Bronze Frog (Lithobates clamitans clamitans) were examined to determine seasonal activity, gonadal cycle, growth, and sexual maturity of this geographically wide-ranging species at the southeastern edge of the species range. Post-metamorphic individuals were active throughout the year based on captures. Metamorphoslings were captured during February-September, although emergence may have been nearly continuous. Depending on location, calling ranged from May-September to continuous. Gravid females were captured during April-December, but evidence suggested potential for gravid females during January-March. Extended breeding, small metamorphoslings (mean = 24.1 mm), and rapid growth to sexual maturity (59 mo. after transformation) at small body sizes in males (40.7 mm) and females (49.1 mm) and small mean body sizes of adults (61.5 mm SVL in males, 66.8 mm SVL in females) of Florida populations typified the extreme southern pattern of this geographically wide-ranging North American anuran.
24321470|Nine species of saprophytic hyphomycetes (anamorphic fungi), collected on plant debris from two different localities of southeast Florida, are recorded for the first time from the United States. They are: Anungitea fragilis, Beltraniella havanensis, Canalisporium caribense, Circinotrichum papakurae, Dictyosporium micronesicum, Dictyosporium subramanianii, Dischloridium laeense, Gyrothrix verticillata and Piricauda cochinensis. Comments about their taxonomy, ecology and geographical distribution are included. Five infrequently reported species and twenty additional widespread taxa are also listed.
24319467|New localities are cited off Honduras, Yucatn, Florida and North Carolina for this species which is best known from southern tropical Atlantic coastal waters.
24321270|Rivulus marmoratus (Pisces: Aplocheilidae) is a small cyprinodontid indigenous to mangroves of the western tropical Atlantic. This species is well known as the only self-fertilizing, hermaphroditic vertebrate, and populations normally consist of genetically diverse groups of homozygous clones. However, male fish are known from a few populations, and outcrossing and heterozygosity have been documented from two areas in Central America. Rivulus marmoratus also exhibits a number of behaviors and environmental tolerances unusual in fishes, and since the species is secretive, rare in some habitats and difficult to collect, knowledge of its natural history has been limited until recently. Within the last decade field and laboratory work and ongoing investigations into R. marmoratus genetics have added greatly to our knowledge of this unusual fish. This study provides a general review of the biology and ecology of R. marmoratus.
24319413|The Ruby-Throat Hummingbird is known to feed from at least 31 plant species in 21 genera among 18 families. A review of prior records supplemented by personal observations seems to indicate that co-evolution may have occurred with some plants and the birds. A correlation also exists between flowering times and migration.
24321209|The mating behavior of the different live-bearing fish species within the family Poeciliidae varies widely. Several species, such as guppies (Poecilia reticulata), sailfin mollies (Poecilia latipinna) and swordtails (Xiphophorus hellerij are well-studied. However, very little information has been recorded regarding the largest poeciliid, the pike killifish ("Belonesox belizanus). This work documents the courtship behavior of male pike killifish, a species which persists within the United States, only in Florida. Unlike males in the non-courting Poeciliidae species, pike killifish males repeatedly conduct particular behavioral acts when in the presence of females. Females do not conduct this suite of behaviors. A courting male will position himself in front of, and perpendicular to a female, and fan his fins and gonopodium (male mating structure), in her direction, prior to attempting to mate. His coloration becomes more vibrant during a display, which is often followed by mating attempts. Pike killifish compose a monotypic genus that has previously been used as an outgroup when studying relationships between live-bearing species. Thus, documenting the courtship behavior of this species is relevant for use in studies where mating-behavior comparisons are being made across genera within this family.
24319704|Birds were sampled over a 1-yr period in a south Florida flatwoods habitat. Forty-nine species were recorded: 32 permanent residents; 13 winter residents; and 4 summer residents. The total number of species was high in the fall and winter and low in the spring. Granivores were dominant during the summer, but insectivores were dominant during the winter. Relative to granivores and insectivores, very few omnivorous and carnivorous species were observed. Density and species diversity of birds in the flatwoods were much higher than those reported for North American grasslands but lower than those reported from pine woodland areas in Georgia.
24321437|Copper contamination in south Florida citrus grove soils have led to concerns over the potential impact of copper (Cu) in the aquatic environment. Surface freshwater monitoring data for south Florida were collected from on-line databases to evaluate risk from Cu contamination by comparing those data to water quality criteria (WQC) based on both water hardness and the biotic ligand model (BLM). On average, BLM-based chronic WQC were 1.8 times greater than hardness-based chronic WQC at the same location. As a result, Cu concentrations at 11.8 percent of the sampling stations exceeded hardness-based chronic WQC, while Cu at 1.3 percent of the stations exceeded the BLM-based chronic WQC. Based on the available monitoring data and risk predicted by the BLM, there is a low risk of adverse impact from Cu contamination in the freshwater aquatic community in south Florida.
24320554|In south-central Florida, honey bees (Apis mellifera L.) of European descent occupied nest boxes with round entrance holes of about 7.9 cm2 (3.2 cm diameter), but rejected those with areas of about 31.7 cm (6.4 cm diameter). They also accepted boxes with nest volumes ranging from 10.2 to 13.2 L, considerably smaller than any recorded natural nest or human-made nest box occupied by honey bee swarms in northern regions. The strong behavioral difference between populations in semitropical and cool-temperate regions may reflect genetic differences or non genetic based flexibility in response to differing environmental conditions.
24319382|The introduction to the marketplace of solar equipment which does not meet performance expectations can have a serious detrimental effect on the industry and solar energy utilization in general. The equipment which industry produces must be efficient and well constructed. The best method of assuring that this will be the case is to have available a well thought out and executed solar equipment testing program. This paper reviews some flat plate collector and solar water heater testing literature and describes programs presently in existence. The theoretical basis for flat plate collector thermal performance criteria is discussed as are collector diagnostic testing techniques.
24321543|Four species of tardigrade were recovered from samples of mosses, lichens, and leaf litter collected at six sites in the Florida Keys. Diversity of tardigrade species in the Florida Keys was lower than on the Florida mainland, and was consistent with a documented decline in tardigrade diversity from north to south in peninsular Florida.
24320491|A stand of cogongrass was burned in February 1983, and the regrowth sprayed with 0.5, 1.0, and 2.0% solutions (v/v) of glyphosate in either April, August, or November of the same year. Plant density was estimated immediately before each treatment and again in July 1984 and 1985. Plant control with the 2% glyphosate treatment differed significantly (p<0.05) from the 0.5 and 1.0% solution treatments only after the November application date. Glyphosate as a 2% solution appeared to control cogongrass satisfactorily for at least 2 yr (91% mortality), while control after the August application never exceeded 40%. Controlling cogongrass in forests will be required to effectuate adequate natural regeneration of pines or survival of planted seedlings and to maintain natural diversity of plant species.
24319678|Quantitative data have been presented for the occurrence and primary productivity of marine algae growing on the roots of red mangrove in southern Puerto Rico. The wet weight of algae per root (of nine roots) averaged 274g. The average number of algal species per root (of ten roots) was 5.1 and the greatest number per root was ten. A list of species which were dominant on individual roots includes: Acanthophora spicifera, Anadyomene stellata, Batophora oerstedii, Caulerpa racemosa, C. verticillata, Dictyota dichotoma, Halimeda incrassata, Valonia ventricosa, Wrangelia bicuspidata, and occasionally others. In a set of typical physiological observations on 14 kinds of algae chlorophyll a content averaged 2.11 mg g-1, carbon fixed in mg per g dry wt per day averaged 34.1 with the oxygen method and 14.7 with the 14C technique. The flora of an average root was calculated to produce in gross photosynthesis 1.47 g C per day, and in "net" assimilation with the 14C method about 0.64 g C per day. The flora of a mangrove root appears to produce about as much organic matter per day as has been observed in a square meter column of phytoplankton in moderately rich tropical lagoons.
24319750|About 68.0% of all animal phyla have only free-living species, and approximately 11.0% of all animal phyla have only parasitic species.
24320191|A needs assessment of Cuban and Haitian refugees living in Tampa was conducted from November 1982 through May 1983 by using key informant interviews and by surveying 57 community leaders who had been involved with refugee resettlement. Forty-one (72 % ) respondents completed and returned a mailed questionnaire. The results yielded a priority ranking of refugee home management needs. The top-ranked needs were learning to speak English (35 responses), learning how to look for a job (31 responses), and medical care (26 responses). Social service agencies in Tampa have tended to give top priority to these needs.
24319605|Coca-cola is absolved. Bologna and potato chips are brain foods.
24319507|The perennial submersed aquatic plant, Hydrilla verticillata Royle has been grown in the laboratory in flasks (250, 500 ml), carboys (20 I), and large tank (350 I). Rates of oxygen production have been measured for each, and the advantages and disadvantages of each size container for measuring viability-growth studies are considered. Flasks could be used for screening studies, but were unsuitable for kinetic studies (rate of production of oxygen) which were done with 20 l and 350 I containers. Comparable kinetic data can be obtained with both containers, but the 350 I system is less likely to cause plant stress owing to oxygen supersaturation. The possibility for reducing plant growth by addition of Chelex-100 was explored.
24321254|Studies were conducted to identify the behavioral components of maternal behavior of the shrew, Blarina carolinensis, in non-manipulated litters, and to assess the effects of litter gender composition (LGC) on subsequent maternal behavior. Maternal behaviors consisted of nursing, licking, nest maintenace, retrieval of young, and miscellaneous (non-maternal) activities including eating, drinking, grooming, scratching, and sleeping. Weaning occured between 2324 days of age. On day 13, when male and female pups could first be distinguished from one another on the basis of the appearance of mammae in females, 13 litters containing 5 pups each were culled to 4 and randomly assigned to 1 of 3 treatment groups: MM (all males), MF (2 males and 2 females), and FF (all females). Behavioral interactions between mothers and their young were observed from day 2 to day 22. There were no significant differences in mass between the treatment groups for individual neonates and litters over the entire weaning period. At birth, neonates ranged from 0.670.74 g, and the weight of the entire litters ranged from 2.433.17 g. At weaning, the pups weighed between 8.849.47 g, with no significant gender differences. Maternal behavior was more pronounced in the days immediately following birth. There was a significant decrease in the frequency of nursing and licking between days 2 and 22 following birth, and an increase in miscellaneous activities. The amount of time spent in nursing, licking, and nest maintenance decreased significantly, with a similar increase for miscellaneous activities. MM mothers showed a higher frequency and duration of nursing and licking than those from the MF and FF groups. In B. carolinensis, LGC affects some aspects of maternal behavior but not the physical development of offspring.
24320612|We examined predation on artificial ground nests in southwestern Florida from May to July 1989. No predation was found on artificial ground nests in pine flatwoods (N=180) during three, 8-day trials. In contrast, 100% predation occurred on nests (N=30) in wetland and hammock habitat during one, 8-day trial. Predation was attributed to mammalian predators, most likely feral hogs and raccoons. Although feral hogs are thought to be important predators of eggs in ground nests, the results of this study indicate that feral hogs were not important predators on ground nests in the pine flatwoods habitat where most ground-nesting occurs. Our limited observations indicate that predation levels by feral hogs, and other mammals could have greater impacts in wetland and hammock habitats, and further study in these habitats is warranted.
24320671|Davian behavior was reported for two anurans, the Cuban treefrog (Osteopilus septentrionalis) and the southern toad (Bufo terrestris). The episodes were initiated by automobiles having killed the females with which the males amplected. Because of high probability of mortality on the road and no chance of successful reproduction, this behavior reduces the fitness of participating males. Davian behavior represents a Darwinian dilemma because the drive to mate overrides the loss of fitness incurred by a type of misdirected copulation for which adaptations to guard against do not appear to exist. Consequently, recent human-mediated circumstances that provide false mates at frequencies not realized in nature remain a novel counter-selective agent to indiscriminate mate choice in males.
24321022|Barbronia weberi (Blanchard, 1897), an Asian freshwater leech predaceous on invertebrates, is reported from Florida. This is the first record of this species in North America. Anatomical and distributional notes are given for the species.
24321087|The D-ribose high-affinity transport operon (RbsDACBKR) of Escherichia coli encodes the proteins necessary for high-affinity transport and utilization of D-ribose. rbsD encodes a 15 kDa protein that is not essential for D-ribose high-affinity transport. RbsD is unique as a component of a highaffinity transport system in that it has a TonB box at its amino terminus. Neither RbsD or RbsK are required for D-ribose high-affinity transport, but their potential interaction with each other has not been examined. Characterization of a rbs operon mutant at the TonB box of RbsD implicates the RbsD gene product as a regulator of ribokinase (RbsK) activity.
24319663|Kinosternon punctatum Gray is a junior synonym of Kinosternon subrubrum subrubrum (Lacpde), not Kinosternon subrubrum steindachneri (Siebenrock) as the type locality suggests.
24321106|Transmission electron microscope observations made from 1995 and 2000 phytoplankton samples revealed two protists new to Florida, Cochliopodium bilimbosum (Auerbach) Leidy and Lepidotrachelophyllum fornicus Nicholls and Lynn.
24320088|Samples of mature leaves from various plant species were collected from experimental plots located at Kennedy Space Center during August 1973 and April 1974. Concentrations of the following elements were measured in each of the samples using atomic absorption techniques: K, Na, Ca, Mg, Fe, Mn, Zn, Cu, and Al. The concentrations of B and Mo were found to be below the sensitivity of the method.
24319974|Groundwater in Florida has been contaminated by serveral classes of chemicals. Regulatory interest in these chemicals has focused on impacts such as the loss of potable water supplies as well as cleanup and reclamation strategies. Also of interest, but often overlooked, are chemical transformation processes that occur in the subsurface aquatic environment. Using laboratory microcosms as model groundwater systems, we studied: (a) hydrolysis reactions and related processes involving aldicarb, a carbamate pesticide, including possible changes that could occur upon interaction with surface waters; (b) the degradation of industrial and petroleum derived organic chemicals; and (c) the abiotic conversion of 1,1,1,-trichloroethane to 1,1-dichloroethene. The application of these laboratory model results to field sites can provide useful interpretive information about the fate of these classes of chemicals in groundwater.
24319961|Grass carp, Ctenopharyngodon idella 61/ha, were introduced into a 1900-ha North-Florida reservoir with dense populations of Illinois pondweed, Potamogeton illinoensis, and Eurasian watermilfoil, Myriophyllum spicatum. Aquatic vegetation and benthic macroinvertebrates were monitored for forty-one months. Grass carp feeding activities eliminated Illinois pondweed two years after initial stocking, and the Eurasian watermilfoil was greatly reduced three years after stocking. In spite of the reduction in the aquatic plant habitat, total benthic macroinvertebrates increased significantly. Much of the increase occurred among the Chironomini (Diptera), Oligochaeta, and Tanytarsini (Diptera). The progressive increase in total catch of invertebrates may be related to degree of macrophyte removal by grass carp. Partial control of vegetation was achieved during the second year and early third year, corresponding with an average 73% increase in benthos. Near total control of the vegetation occurred in late third and fourth years, with a corresponding 274% increase in benthic invertebrates over that present in the first year. We hypothesize that depletion of the macrophytes and deposition of partially digested plant material by grass carp could increase available food by release of nutrients for periphytic algal production and subsequent utilization by benthos (planktonic chlorophyll a decreased). The increase in particulate organic matter (indicated by a significant increase in turbidity and Kjeldahl nitrogen) would also favor an increase in benthic detritivores.
24321448|Sedimentary organic matter composition and distribution in the tidal reaches of the Alafia and Little Manatee Rivers were studied to compare such data for a river with extensive watershed alterations (Alafia River) to one that has a less altered watershed (Little Manatee River). Sediment samples were analyzed for percent sand, silt, and clay, organic matter, protein, lipid, carbohydrate, lignin phenols (LP), fatty acids (FA), and C:N ratios. Sediments in the Alafia River were generally higher in organic matter than in the Little Manatee River. Overall, the concentrations of LPs and FAs were high where organic matter was high in both rivers. Concentrations of sedimentary LPs were greater in the Alafia River sediments than in the Little Manatee River. Concentrations of FAs were higher in the Little Manatee River compared with the Alafia River. The data indicate that the dominant source of sedimentary organic matter appears to be allocthonous (external) in the Alafia river and autochthonous (internal) in the Little Manatee river. Sedimentary organic matter composition can be a potential tool for evaluating watershed influences on river systems.
24321183|The Florida Everglades, an ecosystem suffering from decades of human impact, will undergo hydrologic and nutrient restoration through surface water discharges from Stormwater Treatment Areas (STAs). The potential for vegetation change in response to these restoration efforts, as well as natural disturbances, may be influenced by the existing seedbank composition. Soils in Water Conservation Area 2A, which will receive STA discharges, were cored to a depth of 5 cm in May 1998 and to 5, 10, and 20 cm in October 1998. Seedling emergence assays were used to characterize the seedbank of these soils in relation to existing vegetation and restoration target species. In both assays, Typha domingensis seedlings only emerged from the 05 cm layer of soils collected from Typha-dominated sites. In contrast, two species that are primary indicators of unimpacted wet prairie/slough habitat (Rhynchospora spp. and Eleocharis spp.) were far more abundant in Cladium jamaicense-dominated soils. No emergence of C. jamaicense seedlings occurred in either assay. In addition, to observe natural seedbank recruitment from nutrient-enriched soils, vegetation was manually cleared from four 16m2 field plots at three different Typha-dominated areas. In each plot, a virtually monospecific plant community comprised of Amaranthus australis became established. The results of this study indicate that seedbank recruitment of T. domingensis outside the boundaries of existing populations in this region may be quite limited. Furthermore, the contribution of the seedbank to restoration of Rhynchospora/Eleocharis wet prairie and C. jamaicense habitat may be negligible given that viable seeds of these species appear to be few and have a narrow distribution range in this region. The results are discussed in the context of vegetation management and restoration.
24321597|The present study describes the effectiveness of efforts to produce on larger scale a material called Cuprilig, which is the copper(II) derivative of Octolig, a commercially available immobilized ligand. Octolig consists of polyethylenediamine moieties covalently bound to a high-surface area silica gel (CAS Registry number = 404899-06-5). Cuprilig is useful for removing from water arsenate, orthophosphate, nitrate, nitrite, perchlorate, and several other anions. Cuprilig, for example, is able to remove arsenate (300 ppb, > 99% removal) effectively through column chromatography, and other similar successes have been demonstrated. The usefulness of such a material is evident, as is the need to be able to produce it on a larger scale. Reasonable calculations have suggested that commercial synthesis of Cuprilig would not be feasible because calculations would indicated that no more than 5 ppm copper(II) ion could be used or the reduced pH would limit effective chelation. Nevertheless, successful syntheses did occur using 4255 ppm Cu(II) as copper(II) sulfate pentahydrate. A working hypothesis is that an impurity with base properties was produced during the synthesis and was adsorbed onto the high-surface area of the silica gel present in Octolig. The present study examined the pH, TDS (total dissolved solids), and the visible spectra of fractions produced in the preparation of Cuprilig using column chromatography with Octolig and elution with 0.0670 M CuSO4.
24320424|McCarty Woods is a 2.2 ha tract located in the Brooksville Ridge region of west central Florida. It forms the western portion of the larger Chinsegut Hill and Robins Memorial Forest Preserve. The vegetation of McCarty Woods is southern mixed hardwoods dominated by Quercus michauxii (Basket Oak), Q. virginiana (Live Oak), Q. nigra (Water Oak), Carpinus caroliniana (Hornbeam), Liquidambar styraciflua (Sweetgum) and other hardwoods. The site has not burned since before 1932. The vascular flora of the site includes 82 species in 45 families. Twenty seven tree species occur on the site and approximately 38 % of these are known to occur in southern mixed hardwood forests. McCarty Woods supports 55 species of understory shrubs, vines, and herbs, three of which are rare species currently listed as threatened or endangered.
24319558|Expatriates from upland streams found in the lower Mississippi River main channel may have illustrated the process of "tributary hopping" (ie., a stepwise movement from one habitable tributary to the next via the main channels of large rivers). Two types of tributary hopping exist: an active method, stimulated by behavioral mechanisms, entailing a brief migration; and a passive method, involving "waif immigrants" or floodborne transients. An analysis of Mississippi Embayment geology suggests that a large scale dispersal took place in the lower Mississippi River during Pleistocene glacial periods whereas tributary hopping by passive (waif dispersal) and active mechanisms occurred during the middle and late Pleistocene interglacial periods.
24320660|A 2.02-km section of gas pipeline trench was surveyed six times from 15 September through 10 October 1994, in Gadsden County, Florida, for trapped wildlife. The trench traversed old field upland pine habitat, upland hardwood forest, slope forest, and bottomland forest. The dimensions and effectiveness of the trench at trapping animals varied due to differences in digging equipment, soil characteristics, extent of erosion and sedimentation, and flooding. The trench captured a minimum of 459 amphibians (19 species) and 12 reptiles (seven species). Six species of hylid frogs accounted for 67% of all captures, and the most commonly captured species were Cope's gray treefrog (Hyla chrysoscelis), squirrel treefrog (H. squirella), and bird-voiced treefrog (H. avivoca). About 80% of all anuran captures were immature animals, whereas mostly adult salamanders were captured. Noteworthy captures were two four-toed salamanders (Hemidactylium scutatum), which are rarely encountered in Florida. The only mortality observed was seven amphibians, but other dead animals may have been buried in sediments or under water. This trench proved to be an effective means of sampling amphibian communities, especially treefrogs, which are under-sampled by the technique of drift fencing. Tracks of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and medium-sized carnivores were observed in the trench. The only mammal observed was a dead deer fawn.
24320301|Iron, copper and zinc were monitored in the water, sediments, and 4 species of fish of the upper St. Johns River, Florida. Surface water concentrations of total iron commonly exceeded 300 ug/l, the standard established by the Florida Department of Environmental Regulation for waters intended for public consumption (Class I waters). Total iron levels in the upper St. Johns River are regulated by a series of interacting natural processes such as the ironphosphate cycle, inputs from nonartesian groundwater or bank seepage, complexation with dissolved organic compounds, increased land runoff during perids of high flow, and resuspension of bottom sediments during periods of increased discharge or wind mixing. Groundwater inputs in the headwaters region due to agricultural irrigation practices, in addition to runoff and groundwater seepage into the drainage canals entering the river, have significantly increased its trace metal content. Elevated trace metal levels were also found in sediments and fish tissue in the river. The results of multiple regression analyses indicated that as the extent of urban activity increases in undeveloped watersheds of the upper St. Johns River, total copper and total zinc concentrations in the surface waters of the watershed can also be expected to increase.
24319513|Fossil specimens of Caecum have been recovered in well-cuttings from the Miocene of Florida. The specimens are identified and described primarily by their microarchitectural patterns.
24319690|Two-stage cluster sample design was applied in the random digit dialing (RDD) household survey in Florida. The pilot survey in Sarasota County showed that this method reduced the proportion of unused numbers sharply; the chances of reaching eligible numbers were 31 % in the primary sample and 44 % in the cluster sample. The survey also showed that an evening interview had a better completion rate than did a daytime interview.
24321934|The Perdido Key beach mouse (Peromyscus polionotus trissyllepsis) is a federally endangered rodent with a highly restricted geographic range. Minimally invasive sampling (tail tips) provides small amounts of starting tissue, which when combined with high levels of inbreeding, requires large genotyping panels in order to resolve patterns of relationships, dispersal, and other phenomena of interest. We screened 74 published Peromyscus spp. loci and demonstrated the utility of whole genome amplification (WGA) to produce repeatable genotypes. Of 74 screened loci, 50 were successfully amplified, and 24 were variable in captive beach mice. Screening of a subset of 23 mono- and polymorphic loci on wild Perdido Key mice revealed that 1) additional variation exists in 11 monomorphic colony loci, and 2) that substantial genetic variation may be missing from the captive colony, relative to the wild, source population. Together these resources should provide valuable genetic information on the repatriation, breeding success and dispersal in Perdido Key beach mouse populations.
24321153|Wildlife mortality was documented for one year on a 3.2 km section of U.S. Highway 441 in Alachua County, Florida, prior to construction of a wildlife barrier/underpass system. A total of 1,821 vertebrates, representing 62 species, were recorded dead on the road during 105 sampling days; counts were conducted weekly for 52 consecutive weeks. The most common species killed were green treefrog (Hyla cinerea; n = 296), southern leopard frog (Rana sphenocephala; 230), Florida water snake (Nerodia fasciata pictiventris; 194). pig frog (Rana grylio; 145), and green water snake (Nerodia floridana; 119). U.S. Highway 441 at Paynes Prairie appears to have one of the highest levels of snake road mortality ever reported; dead snakes were obseiwed at a rate of 1.854 individuals per km surveyed (336 km surveyed/623 snakes killed).
24321271|We captured 30 spotted seatrout, Cynoscion nebulosus, from J.N. 'Ding' Darling National Wildlife Refuge in 1998 in order to determine the concentration of mercury in muscle tissue. We compared mercury levels found in this study with mercury levels found in C. nebulosus captured in 1990 in the refuge. We also regressed concentration of mercury against specimen wet weight for 1998 data. We found that the average concentration of mercury in C. nebulosus (0.235 ppm, wet weight) in 1998 was significantly less than the average in 1990 (0.396 ppm, wet weight). No significant relationship existed between mercury concentration and specimen whole body wet weight. Differences in laboratory procedures and/or reductions in natural or anthropogenic inputs of mercury may have contributed to the reduction in mercury concentrations between the two years.
24319474|Procambrus erythrops, described from Suwannee County, is a detritus feeder inhabiting the higher energy zones of the cave.
24321940|Global sea level has been rising for the last 20,000+ years at rates ranging from 0.33.3 feet/century, and has submerged Florida's pre-Holocene coast by over 400 feet. The instrumental record started in Key West in 1845, but had many gaps until 1913, after which it is nearly continuous; the rate of rise there since 1913 is 0.740.03 feet per century. For the ensemble of all other near-century-long Florida records (Pensacola [0.71 feet/century], Cedar Key [0.53 feet/century], St. Petersburg [0.82 feet/century], Miami Beach [0.75 feet/century], Mayport [0.77 feet/century], and Fernandina Beach [0.65 feet/century]) the average rate of rise is 0.730.09 feet per century. At Key West during 19132013, there is no statistically significant evidence of accelerated sea level rise. Guidance for estimating future sea level from NOAA and from the US Army Corps of Engineers relies on using projections of global sea level adapted to a local site; such federal criteria for Florida would place sea level in 2100 anywhere from 0.76.6 feet above the 2001 level; United Nations projections are between 0.93.3 feet by 2100.
24320307|From early in this century, those involved in the Criminal Justice System concluded that it should be approached as a discipline and subject to the empiricism of cause and effect. However, coupled with certain erroneous presumptions, the failure to adequately define the problem at the outset has prevented agreement and conclusion on objectives, and efforts undertaken seem at times to aggravate the crime problem. Construction of an etiological typology of criminal offenders uncovers the real objectives for a Criminal Justice System and shows what strategies should be developed. A typology recognizing crime as a manifestation of normal, conformist conduct as well as deviant conduct leads to the conclusion that there are multiple objectives to be achieved by a Criminal Justice System. These objectives, then, show the need for strategies of support, management, deterrence, retribution, and protection.
24319556|Psammaquents occur in lower marsh and Haplaquods in the upper marsh sites. Sulfaquents were found at the mouth of the Suwannee River.
24321163|Hurricanes drastically affect shallow coral reef ecosystems by physically removing and fragmenting biological organisms, or scouring them as massive amounts of sand and rubble are displaced. This study assesses the impact of a Category I hurricane on populations of the weedy brown macroalga Dictyota in the Florida Keys, and considers the fate of the algal biomass shredded and displaced by subsequent water flow. In October 1999, Hurricane Irene decimated Dictyota spp. populations, however fragments created remained viable despite their traumatic generation, settled and formed attachment rhizoids within 2 days, and then began to grow. This study shows that a large-scale physical disturbance (hurricane) can be beneficial to weedy, opportunistic, asexually reproducing species, such as Dictyota, that form rhizoidal attachments faster than other macroalgal species, and can lead to large-scale population recovery within weeks.
24321478|This paper describes water column characteristics in a shallow bay environment surrounding an intensive clam aquaculture use area. Parameters included in the study were nutrient content (nitrite + nitrate, ammonium, total nitrogen, soluble reactive phosphorus and total phosphorus), algal abundance (chlorophyll a), sediment load (total suspended solids), and water clarity (turbidity). Spatial gradients across the aquaculture use area were examined to explore the possible role of the use area as a source or sink of the water column constituents. The results show higher concentrations of most parameters on the east side of the use area than the west side, with the exception of ammonium. Ammonium concentrations were consistently higher upstream of the use area than downstream on both ebb and flood tides. Based on these observations, the Alligator Harbor aquaculture use area may be a source or sink of nutrient, and particulate load within the bay, depending on the tidal cycle, and potentially other hydrologie conditions. By contrast, the use area appears to be a consistent source of ammonium.
24320706|Coastal shark species generally utilize shallow, inshore bays and estuaries as nursery grounds. These are typically areas of high productivity where juvenile sharks find abundant prey and where they are less exposed to predation by large sharks. Human activities in these nursery ground areas can lead to a significant impact on the juvenile sharks, primarily in the form of habitat degradation and fishing mortality. In Tampa Bay, fishing mortality of sharks is both direct from the recreational fishery as well as indirect in the form of bycatch by recreational anglers and commercial gill-netters, especially in the mackerel fishery near the mouth of the bay. Tampa Bay serves as a nursery area for most of the year for several resident species of sharks and as a seasonal nursery area for several transient species. In the past two years, we have captured 943 sharks of ten different species, including newborns of four species and juveniles of nine species, in all areas of Tampa Bay, but the vast majority of these have been captured in the more pristine, less developed habitats of southern Tampa Bay where healthy grass flats appear to be very important as nursery ground habitat. Especially important are the grass flats in the area of Rattlesnake Key near the Manatee River, and the area between the Sunshine Skyway bridge and Coquina Key, including the Pinellas Point area.
24321548|The nutrient content and moisture availability of soils have the potential to influence the transition from seed to seedling. We investigated seedling emergence and growth of a shrub that has invaded many ecosystems in peninsular Florida, Brazilian pepper (Schinus terebinthifolius). We performed a laboratory experiment comparing two soil types (hammock vs. swamp) and two watering frequencies in a fully factorial design. We monitored seedling emergence weekly for eight weeks and measured seedling height at the end of the experiment. Two times as many seedlings emerged in swamp soil compared to hammock soil, and high watering frequency increased seedling emergence by approximately 10% in both soil types. The rate of seedling emergence changed over time, interacting with watering frequency and soil type. Seedling height increased with watering frequency, but was not different between soil types. Our results suggest that soil type, and to a lesser degree water availability, influence the establishment of Brazilian pepper in native plant communities in South Florida.
24320248|We used survey methods to characterize hypertension in a relatively isolated West Indian population. Results indicated that excellent discrimination between hospitalized and nonhospitalized hypertensives and controls was available using the following variables: age, gender, weight, family history, herb usage, salt intake, smoke intake, anxiety, and personal problems. These findings support previous work on high blood pressure in populations from other Western nations.
24319921|Sand pine scrub tends to burn only under extreme fire-weather conditions, thus exhibiting extreme (uncontrollable and unpredictable) fire behavior. The objective of this study was to develop a prescription to burn sand pine scrub under controlled conditions. A modified fuel model was developed to represent the sand pine scrub community. Using afire spread model to predict fire behavior, a prescription for burning this fuel type was written and tested on two fires, in the Yamato Scrub. The results of the burns suggest that an effective, safe means exists to burn sand pine scrub under controlled conditions.
24320508|The determination of elemental carbon (EC) in air particulate matter using optical methods assumes that EC is the only light-absorbing species; however, the presence of significant amounts of (colored) inorganic species would falsely elevate the measured EC concentration. Based on inlet characteristics of the sampling device and particle size distribution, the inorganic content of air particulate samples collected on filters varies significantly. This paper describes the magnitude of this effect for several sampling devices. The interference was found to be 10% or less, depending on the sampling device used.
24320556|Flavonoids from leafy branchlets of stressed and unstressed bald-cypress (Taxodium distichum (L.) L.C. Rich.) were compared using two dimensional paper chromatography. Plant material was collected from equivalent-aged mature individuals of bald-cypress growing in a single divided stand in St. Johns County, Florida. State Road 13, constructed in 1937, blocked normal drainage from the eastern portion of the cypress wetland resulting in an increase in the duration and depth of standing water. Interstitial water pH was lower and KCl-extractable aluminum was higher in the undrained site. Methanolic extracts from trees in the eastern and western parts of the population differed in that three putative flavonoids present on chromatograms from unstressed trees were not found in trees subjected to prolonged flooding and one flavonoid compound was found only in stressed trees.
24320293|Black Calabash, Amphitecna latifolia, is reported in northern Palm Beach County at the north end of Lake Worth, a range extension of more than 160 km north of any previously known population in Florida. This population may be the result of an early horticultural introduction or it may be native to the area.
24320205|Subsurface temperature data from 8 stations were obtained for 6 wk during the summer of 1978 to describe seasonal upwelling along the Atlantic coast of Florida just south of Cape Canaveral. Available data show one major upwelling event occurring during the first 3 wk of August. Bottom temperatures suggest that cool water advances rapidly toward the coast, and nearshore water cools by as much as 7C within 2 wk. A strong thermocline is maintained throughout the upwelling event. The available data base is inadequate to resolve the primary forcing mechanisms, but related studies suggest that upwelling may occur in response to the Florida Current as much as to the coastal wind field.
24320319|The gecko Hemidactylus brooki and the boa Epicrates f. fordi are recorded from Isla Saona, Repblica Dominicana, for the first time. Additional specimens of the iguanid lizard Anolis baleatus lineatacervix, which is endemic to Saona and was named on the basis of a single specimen, are described.
24321250|The first documented report of escolar chino off the U.S. Atlantic coast is presented. This record represents a modest extension to the known geographic distribution of the species; but it is nevertheless a new addition to the fishes known to occur in U.S. coastal waters. Morphometric and meristic data are given to enhance the brief original description. The escolar chino caught off Florida had slightly barbed canine teeth and more scales in the lateral line than the specimen described by Poey. Histological analysis revealed a female with regressed (or class 1) ovaries. The taxonomy of the escolar chino is briefly reviewed.
24320557|Significant amounts of dolomite (calcium magnesium carbonate) found in Florida phosphate deposits, south of those presently mined, are troublesome because of the problems caused by enhanced magnesium concentrations in the production of phosphoric acid through wet methods. The removal of dolomite from phosphate ore was studied using a buffer system, i.e., mixture of ammonium sulfate and carbonic acid. Two different sources of phosphate pebble were studied. Carbonic acid was supplied using excess carbon dioxide bubbled into standard solutions of ammonium sulfate. The quantity of magnesium was based on the analysis of leaching liquor by atomic absorption spectrometry. Experimental results showed that the calcium and magnesium were not leached in equimolar amounts as they would be if dolomite alone were the source of the ions; much more calcium was leached than magnesium. Concentrations of ammonium sulfate were varied from 0 to 1.0 M, and leaching increased at room temperature with increasing concentration of ammonium sulfate. Using 0.1 M ammonium sulfate, and changing the leaching temperature from 7 to 45C, we found that the amount of magnesium and calcium increased with temperature. Finally, the effect of pebble size (35-60 mesh and -230 mesh) was compared; with the smaller size pebbles (ca.-230 mesh), calcium was especially favored over magnesium. Implications are considered.
24321651|The objective of this research was to determine whether the survival and growth rate of transplanted seagrasses is hindered by sediment sulfide addition and bacterial community disruption. A microcosm experiment was designed to control for temperature, salinity, and light availability. Bare root transplanted seagrass shoots were exposed to one of four treatments; plus sulfide, plus autoclave; minus sulfide, plus autoclave; plus sulfide, unmanipulated (not autoclaved); and minus sulfide, unmanipulated. Bare root transplants had less than half the rate of growth of the control that was transplanted as a plug with sediments, demonstrating the sensitivity of root disturbance in Thalassia testudinum. Bare root transplants in autoclaved sediments grew slower than in unmanipulated sediments regardless of sulfide treatments. The greatest amount of extractable DNA was measured in bare root transplanted treatments that had not been autoclaved. Standard diversity indices along with a Bray-Curtis similarity index of Terminal Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism in a MDS were used to assess community composition. The MDS showed no significant differences, while comparisons of diversity indices indicated differences between transplants and control. The results support the conclusion that an intact sediment bacterial community increases transplant success, but the nature of the interaction (e.g., functional, structural) remains unclear.
24319935|Several specimens of the South American cichlid Geoghagus surinamensis were collected from a southeast Florida canal. Our collections and observations document the possible establishment of this exotic fish in Florida.
24321653|Six Mile Cypress Slough Preserve is an approximately 1100 ha cypress swamp, encircled by residential and commercial development and crossed by four highways. Road construction, land development, and water management have significantly reduced the historic watershed from over 14,500 ha to approximately 8500 ha. This reduction in watershed area, along with suppression of fire, proliferation of invasive exotic species, and past logging appears to have had a profound ecological impact on the swamp, resulting in suboptimal water depths and hydroperiods for the sustainable maintenance of the cypress forest. In 2006, Kevin Erwin Consulting Ecologist and Florida Gulf Coast University established a long-term monitoring program of hydrology and vegetation in the swamp. The objectives of the monitoring are to examine the dynamics of surface- and -ground water, and to examine the relationships between hydrology and vegetation dynamics. Preliminary analysis of the first two years of hydrologic monitoring illustrates the annual variability of hydroperiods, the fine spatial variance in rainfall inputs, and the impact of human activity on surface and groundwater levels in adjacent areas of the swamp. Future study includes examining the impact of large rainfall events, and correlating hydrology to vegetation to determine the likelihood of maintaining a cypress-dominated forest.
24320163|The Jack Dempsey, Cichlasoma octofasciatum, native to southern Mexico, Guatemala, Yucatan and Honduras, is reportedly established in Dade, Hillsborough and Brevard counties, Florida. In 1982, a population was found in a creek on the University of Florida campus, Alachua County, Florida. Collections and observations during 1982-1985 document this population's status and provide information on the biology of this species. This population represents the northernmost distribution known for Cichlasoma species in Florida.
24320585|Students enrolled in General Chemistry II at Brevard Community College were given assignments requiring the use of a computer and molecular modeling software in an effort to improve their understanding of molecular geometry. These assignments were given as part of a unit on organic chemistry and involved (a) learning the computer's operation, (b) becoming familiar with the basics of molecular modeling, and (c) constructing organic molecules such as amino acids, isomeric forms of hydrocarbons, and steroids. Verbal feedback, evaluations, and classroom observations showed that college freshman students were not only able to master the software and perform the assignments, but showed increased understanding of molecular geometry and heightened enthusiasm for both chemistry and computers.
24321992|We provide observations and a photograph of copulating peninsula mole skinks, Plestiodon egregius onocrepis, in the Ocala National Forest, Marion County, Florida, during March 2010. This is the first vernal record of mating for this autumnal-winter breeding subspecies and the first field observation and photograph of copulation.
24320753|The Florida legislature has made it mandatory that lands disturbed for mining purposes should be reclaimed. Production of wheat [Triticum aestivum (L.) em. Thell] and triticale ( Triticosecale Wittmack) on phosphatic clay settling areas (> 48,000 ha) in south central Florida, could be economically beneficial to the state's livestock industry, while meeting the legislative land reclamation mandate. An experiment was conducted during the 1987 and 1988 growing seasons to study the development and yields of 'Florida 301' wheat and 'Florida 201' triticale, when planted early (mid October to November) and late (mid December to January) under Florida subtropical climatic conditions. The vegetative period averaged 15.5 and 5.5 days more for early planted wheat and triticale, respectively, compared to late planted treatments. Temperature during the growing season was approximately 3C higher at initiation of reproductive developments for late planted treatments vs early planted treatments. This resulted in an average of 14.5 and 15 days reduction of the grain filling period (GFP) of late planted treatments for wheat and triticale, respectively. Under the subtropical conditions of south central Florida, late planting subjected both wheat and triticale crops to higher temperatures, especially during the period of reproductive development. This caused reduction in the duration of grain fill for these crops when planted late in the growing season. Grain yields for late planted treatments were reduced approximately 44 percent for wheat and 48 percent, for triticale compared to early planting for the 1988 growing season. The crops can be grown in the phosphatic clay environment although higher temperatures may reduce yields if planted late in the season. Better yields can be achieved by planting in late November or early December compared to planting in January.
24321234|Human-induced changes in hydrology and nutrients are believed to be responsible for observed shifts in the remnant Everglades landscape from a sawgrass-slough mosaic to one increasingly dominated by emergent vegetation. We examined how changes in food availability caused by this vegetative shift might affect the growth and survival of the Florida applesnail (Pomacea paludosa), a key prey item for many native species. The quality of bulk samples of applesnail foods from slough (benthic periphyton) and sawgrass (macrophyte detritus) were analyzed for nutritional content (% ash, carbohydrate, protein, and lipid content). Newly hatched snails were reared in microcosms containing either periphyton or detritus, and changes in aperture length, shell length, and wet weight were measured after 30 days to calculate growth rates. Bulk periphyton was predicted to be the poorer quality food due to its high ash content and low protein content. But, increases in aperture length, shell length and wet weight were more than 2-fold greater for snails grown in periphyton as opposed to detrital microcosms. Significantly higher growth rates in periphyton microcosms suggests that slough habitats are the preferred environment for juvenile applesnail development. However, growth in both treatments showed that juveniles can assimilate plant detritus when periphyton availability is limited.
24320961|Aqueous etching wastes from the electronic industry contain heavy metal ions such as chromium(VI), chromium(III) and copper(II). In remediation of this waste, chromium(VI) should be reduced to chromium(III), and then removed via precipitation or extraction. This report describes results of chromium(VI) reduction using water-soluble sugars (sucrose and glucose) for remediation of aqueous etching wastes from this industry. In strong acid solutions (pH <1.0), the reaction was first-order with respect to chromium(VI) concentration in the presence of excess sugar. The evidence shows that glucose can be oxidized into carbon dioxide eventually and that sugars (and probably other materials readily available in Florida) are very efficient and economical in chromium(VI) reduction. Sugar concentration, pH, and temperature affected the rate of reduction.
24319985|Luidia clathrata is gonochoric. This is a report of a single incidence of hermaphorditismfrom more than 2000 individuals examined during the reproductive seasons of 1974-1979. The gonads are serial arborescent sac-like structures that are lined with germinal cells. Each gonad typically has four or five acini. In the hermaphroditic gonad both oocytes and sperm arose from the same area along the basal lamina. In some acini oocytes tended to dominate while in others sperm were predominant. In acini that contained large numbers of both gametes the sperm completely encircled the oocytes. There was no evidence of self fertilization. This hermaphroditic individual was part of a nutritional study. That only a single individual showed hermaphroditism indicates the tight control of sexual differentiation in this species.
24321194|Landuse in watersheds has a large impact on the quality of water and sediment in adjacent bays and estuaries. Changes in pore water nutrients and sediment composition due to anthropogenic impacts to the surrounding watershed may potentially influence the growth and biomass of rooted, estuarine vegetation. This study examined spatial patterns in growth and biomass of the seagrass Thalassia testudinum during the early spring growing season in an estuary with a highly disturbed watershed (Biscayne Bay, FL). In addition, the plants' response to nutrient addition via fertilizer spikes as a proxy to increased pore water nutrient levels was evaluated. Spatial differences in biomass occurred among the four sites with those on the western side of the bay that receive nutrient inputs from terrestrial run off having greater biomass per m2 than the two sites on the eastern side of the bay. The addition of nutrients via fertilizer spikes did not influence biomass, but the production of new plant tissue (mm2/day) as a measure of growth was increased by an average of 45% with the addition of fertilizer spikes at all sites. The results indicate that the structure (biomass) of these subtropical T. testudinum meadows in an estuary with a highly disturbed watershed did not change with short-term nutrient addition, but the function of the meadows was altered through enhanced production.
24320343|Documents describing the Indian River marine turtle fishery, which flourished in the late 1800s, are the only source of information concerning lagoonal turtle populations prior to 1978. The primary object of the fishery, which declined after 1900, was the green turtle, Chelonia mydas. The other important species in the system, the loggerhead turtle (Caretta caretta) is mentioned briefly in the early reports. Studies of these 2 species in the northern segment of the Indian River lagoon system were carried out from July 1976 to September 1981. Turtles were captured in large-mesh tangle nets and during hypothermic stunning episodes in the winters of 1977 and 1981. The presence of Eretmochelys imbricata and Lepidochelys kempi in the system is recorded for the first time. A total of 205 C. caretta and 199 C. mydas was captured, providing a basis for the characterization of the 2 populations. Loggerhead turtles of the system are about twice as large (weight x: 43.7 kg; CLSL x: 65.8 cm) as green turtles (weight x: 18.8 kg; CLSL x: 48.2 cm), but virtually all green turtles and 95 % or more of the loggerheads are immature. Indian River lagoons are "developmental habitats," in the sense of Carr et al. (1978).
24320561|Bis-(-diketones) are quadridentate ligands and have a broad spectrum of uses, including uses as biologically active compounds and liquid crystals. Compounds of the type [(RCO)2CH]2CHR' have been synthesized by an aldol condensation followed by Michael addition. This work reports the synthesis of 1,1,3,3-tetra-(2-naphthoyl)-propane by this procedure.
24321672|Previous studies on salinity tolerance of Ophiophragmus filograneus have documented its ability to acclimate to a wide range of salinities in the laboratory and to acclimatize to short-term natural reductions in salinity. In all cases, salinities below 10 were lethal within a few weeks of exposure. Recent long-term changes in hydrology have exposed a dense population of O. filograneus in the Banana River lagoon to 3 yr of salinities between 10 and 20. The burrowing response of animals subjected to acute exposure was tested in the present study at salinities of 8, 10, 12, 14 (ambient), 19, and 24. After almost 6 wk of continuous exposure, animals at 14, 19, and 24 had fully acclimated, although all animals showed signs of stress. Those at 12 still had elevated burrowing times after 6 wk. Animals at 10 survived, but many did not burrow within the allotted time (7 min) for each trial. None at 8 burrowed nor survived more than 15 d. Long-term exposure to low salinity does not extend the tolerance of O. filograneus: it has a lower lethal limit of about 8, a limit that might produce local extirpation if current approaches to lagoon management do not change.
24319695|About 13,500 living species of animals are deposit feeders. Deposit feeding is most common in coelomate animals, buta few species of small body size among the pseudocoelomates are also deposit feeders. Deposit feeding was probably the last of the basic types of feeding to arise in animals.
24319449|MacArthur and Wilson proposed a species equilibrium model of insular colonization. The applicability and generality of this model were tested using artificial fresh-water ponds as islands. All organisms large enough to be distinguished at 100 were monitored. Colonization, immigration and extinction rate curves are shown to be consistent with the model proposed by MacArthur and Wilson. Apparent non-interactive equilibrium was reached in 25 to 30 days with a turnover rate of between 3 and 5 species per day. The modifications proposed by Simberloff were also found to be consistent with the results of this study.
24319877|A survey of adults in Florida was conducted in 1981 to isolate the sources of support or nonsupport for science and technology within the general public. We report the distribution of support, the demographic correlates of support, and the level of support for specific policy issues. Generally, supporters were of higher socioeconomic status and more informed, but otherwise indistinguishable from other segments of the population. The most hostile were characterized as being "born again" Christians in terms of religious beliefs.
24321154|The black spiny-tailed iguana (Ctenosuara similis) was introduced onto Gasparilla Island in southwestern peninsular Florida ca. 30 years ago. Since then, this exotic species has undergone both natural and human-mediated range expansion, and it is presently found in Placido, Cape Haze, Gulf Cove, Cayo Costa, Keewaydin Island, and Little Marco Island. Although C. similis is primarily herbivorous, it will feed opportunistically on small animals, including insects, crabs, rodents, fishes, nestling birds, bird eggs, and hatchling sea turtles. Because of the possible ecological impacts of C. similis on Florida's native flora and fauna, population monitoring and/or eradication efforts should be conducted on C. similis.
24320632|The reproductive cycle of the Mediterranean gecko was studied from one site in south-central Florida. Egg laying took place between May and August. Sexual maturity of both sexes was possible within the first year at similar body sizes. Sex ratio of the annual sample was 1:1. Comparisons with Texas and Louisiana populations revealed great overlap in reproductive cycles despite geographic differences. The seasonally restricted reproductive cycle of this species in southern Florida may have contributed to a decline in its distribution and abundance as a result of competition with other recently established and rapidly dispersing hemidactylines that exhibit greater fecundity.
24321055|Various types of shoreline stabilization methods have been used in the Indian River Lagoon to prevent erosion caused by wave action. These include: vertical seawalls, smooth revetments, riprap revetments (all collectively referred to as hardened shorelines), and to a lesser extent, vegetated shorelines. It has been widely assumed that hardened shorelines are detrimental to the environment due to a scouring effect caused by backwash from wave action. The results of an extensive search of english-language literature indicate that (1) there is no published evidence linking hardened shorelines to a reduction in seagrass distribution or abundance, and, (2) in the conditions found in Indian River Lagoon, the theoretical scouring associated with vertical seawalls is limited to approximately 12 meters seaward from the wall for vertical seawalls, and considerably less for smooth and riprap revetments. Our field studies indicate that the presence of seagrasses adjacent to all types of shorelines, whether hardened or vegetated, is similar. The lack of seagrasses which typically occurs in the zone between 05 meters offhore must be due to some other factor or factors.
24319456|Ophiactis rubropoda, sp. nov., is distinguished by having six arms, one pair of oral papillae, 4-5 arm spines, transversely ellipsoid arm plates, disk spinelets in some specimens, and a red pigment in the water vascular system.
24321566|Bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) are well-known inhabitants of the Indian River Lagoon (IRL) estuary system. In recent years, an increase in stranded animals, concurrent with biological and anthropogenic threats have created concerns about the stability of this population. The objectives of this study were to analyze data collected from stranded IRL dolphins (19772005) to: 1) evaluate and understand stranding trends temporally and spatially, 2) examine age and sex-specific mortality patterns, and 3) evaluate trends of human-related dolphin mortalities. A total of 834 dolphins stranded in the lagoon system from 19772005. The historical average was 28.8 ( 2.48) dolphin strandings per year. We found two years with unusually high numbers of strandings, in 2000 (n = 59) and 2001 (n = 61). A total of 391 males, 292 females and 151 dolphins of undetermined sex stranded during the study. Strandings occurred more frequently in spring and summer (X2 = 70.96, df = 3, p < 0.0001). As long-lived, top level predators, IRL dolphin health may be representative of the overall health of this system. These baseline data are essential to management and conservation efforts for the IRL dolphin population and represent the most comprehensive analysis of mortality trends for IRL dolphins.
24319959|The creek chubsucker, Erimyzon oblongus, was recorded from the Escambia River drainage of Florida in 1954. This still constitutes the only record of the species from the state. Although the species was subsequently found to occur in a limited portion of the Chattahoochee River system of Alabama, there have been no other records from the Escambia or other closely adjacent eastern Gulf slope drainages of Alabama or Florida. The two specimens on which the original Escambia drainage record was based have been found, upon re-examination, to be the sharpfin chubsucker, Erimyzon tenuis. E. oblongus should thus be deleted from the Florida and Escambia drainage lists.
24320152|New specimens of Glyptotherium floridanum from the Florida peninsula confirm the conspecific identity of the Rancholabrean population of glyptodonts across the Gulf Coast and southern Atlantic coastal plain. Newly recognized osteological traits in the mandible of G. floridanum include bulbous pits in the alveoli for the teeth, and grooves on the outer surface that mark the position of hair follicles that were embedded in bone. The cervical vertebrae in the new specimens are similar to those of G. floridanum from the Texas Gulf Coast, and distinct from those of ancestral species. The caudal vertebrae and caudal armor were simple, like those of G. texanum and G. arizonae, without development of extensive fusion of the terminal caudal rings and without terminal spines at the tip of the armor.
24321148|The benthic macroinvertebrate community composition and selected water and sediments physico-chemical parameters at 15 permanent sampling stations in northeast Lake Jesup, central Florida, were studied monthly from December 1996 to December 1997. Crustacea (primarily Ostracoda) were numerically dominant (mean 3,645/m2), followed by Oligochaeta (898/m2), Gastropoda (mostly Tryonia aequicostata 898/m2), Chironomidae larvae (predominantly Glyptotendipes paripes 383/m2), Chaoboridae larvae (112/m2) and Hirudinea (107/m2). Ordination analysis (CCA and variation partitioning) showed that month of sampling and sampling station together explained 64% of benthic community variability; sampling station explained 45% and sampling month 19% of variation. Significant density differences of various taxa were noted between sampling stations, but not between months of sampling. Clustering of benthic community by using TWINSPAN revealed differences between sand and soft organic sediments. CCA indicated sediment type as the most important environmental factor. The highest biomass and species number were recorded on sand substrate, with Isopoda, Nematoda, Polypedilum spp. larvae and Glyptotendipes paripes larvae as the typical inhabitants of sand sediment, whereas Tanypodinae larvae, Chaoboridae larvae and Tryonia aequicostata were typical for soft muck sediment.
24320750|Zooplankton were monitored in Banana Lake between January, 1990 and March, 1992 to evaluate the impact of lake restoration by hydraulic dredging. Zooplankters were collected on a monthly basis at eight stations using an 8.1 L Kemmerer water sampler. The samples were concentrated by straining the samples through a #20 nylon bolting cloth Zooplankton net. Microscopic enumeration was employed to determine abundance of rotifers and microcrustaceans. Dredging was conducted within Banana Lake between August, 1990 and August, 1991. During and after dredging, all species of zooplankters had decreasing trends except for Asplanchna sp., a predatory rotifer. Most species started to decline in January, 1991 and by October, 1991 all of the cladocerans and copepods had disappeared. Recovery had begun by March, 1992.
24321945|Despite the significant value of the southeastern United States' red drum (Sciaenops ocellatus) fishery, there is a lack of clinical blood chemistry data. This was the first study to assess plasma glucose values as an indicator of stress response to evaluate variation and the effect of reproductive activity for wild adult red drum in Florida. Red drum (n=126) were collected from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Kennedy Space Center waters during three reproductive periods in 2011. Samples were obtained from the branchial vessels of the gill arch. Plasma glucose levels were significantly different among reproductive periods, with the highest mean values recorded during the spawning period, September-October (38.23 mg / dL  10.0). The glucose range was 1769 mg / dL. Glucose values were lower during all three periods than previous values recorded for cultured or captive red drum studies. This may indicate that fish from this population were under less stress than other populations previously sampled.
24320580|The reproductive cycle of the Indo-Pacific gecko, Hemidactylus garnotii, was studied in southern Florida from June 1991 to January 1993. Lizards were sexually mature at 49 mm SVL. Egglaying took place every month of the year and at least three clutches were produced annually. Year round reproduction may be added to the list of reproductive traits which make H. garnotii the most fecund and widespread species of the hemidactyline geckoes currently found in southern Florida.
24321039|Four species of Hemidactylus geckos have been introduced into Florida. Presently, only the Indo-Pacific (H. garnotii) and Mediterranean (H. turcicus) geckos occur in northern peninsular Florida; however, their distributions and ecological status are poorly known. We combined records from the literature, systematic collections, and field surveys to summarize the distributions of H. garnotii and H. turcicus in northern peninsular Florida. Herein, we document 16 previously unreported county records and one significant distributional record for these two species.
24319437|Reproductive cycles of the shrew, Blarina brevicauda, and three rodents, Peromyseus gossypinus, Ochrotomys nuttalli and Sigmodon hispidus, were examined from lands of the ERDA Savannah River Plant near Aiken, South Carolina. The information was collected from 1955 to 1973 and all species demonstrated bimodal reproductive cycles with peaks of activity in the spring and fall. Sigmodon hispidus and P. gossypinus had an equal intensity of effort during both seasons while B. brevicauda had a greater spring effort and O. nuttalli a greater fall effort.
24321394|Recreational tournaments for swordfish (Xiphias gladius) existed in the Florida Straits between 1977 and 1983 before disappearing due to low catch rates and an overexploitation of the stock. The first recent swordfish tournament occurred in 2001 off southeast Florida with 13 participating vessels. In 2002, three swordfish tournaments were observed and anglers were interviewed to determine catch and gear characteristics of the re-established recreational fishery. A total of 156 vessels participated in these three tournaments, catching 112 swordfish and hooking an additional 48 animals. The combination of the recovery of the North Atlantic swordfish stock and the continuation of the 2001 closure of the Florida Straits to commercial pelagic longline fishing gear is expected to result in the continued expansion of the southeast Florida recreational swordfish fishery.
24319550|A median lip projection was found on 2 Carpiodes cyprinus from the Apalachicola River, Florida.
24320256|Due to its phyletic position among the selachians, its relative abundance in Florida coastal waters, and its unusual adaptability to laboratory conditions, the juvenile lemon shark is an excellent model for studies of the sensory biology of the "typical" shark. Our investigations of the physiological optics of this shark's eye have resulted in a mathematical model, or schematic eye, for the species. This optical model is centered around an ellipsoidal lens of high overall equivalent refractive index (1.664) and principal power (140 diopters), and yet all data indicate these animals to be hypermetropic (far-sighted) by about 3 diopters underwater, with no evidence of accommodation. Using the schematic eye, optical limitations on spatial vision of this shark are predictable. In addition to discussing the optics, we briefly review recent findings on the anatomical and functional organization of the retina, as well as psychophysical measurements of absolute visual threshold, in the juvenile lemon shark.
24319687|Infrared absorption spectra were run on humic substances from Lake Apopka sediment samples and compared with spectra from citrus and muck farm humic substances from sediment in the surrounding drainage basin, and also with spectra from autochthonous plankton humic substances. The 1540 cm-1 and 1650 cm-1 peaks in the plankton and lake sediment samples, in addition to other spectra similarities, indicate that plankton is the probable precursor of lake sediment humic substances. The absorption bands at 1650 cm-1 and 1540 cm-1 are thought to be due to peptide bonds in protein, with amide I absorption occuring at 1650 cm-1 and amide II absorption at 1540 cm-1. The spectra from the muck farm soil and citrus soil differ to a greater extent from the spectrum of the lake sediment than do the plankton spectra.
24321480|During the summer of 2002, we studied the benthic omnivore turtle guild inhabiting freshwater canals in central Broward County, Florida. Sampling with baited hoop traps, we captured 52 Chelydra serpentina, 34 Kinosternon baurii, and 4 Sternotherus odoratus in 576 trap nights. Throughout the canal system, C. serpentina was the dominant species in shallow (<1 m maximum depth) areas, while K. baurii dominated the deeper (>1 m) areas. Secondary sex ratios were 1:1 for all three species, but population size structure data indicate that impaired recruitment may threaten the long-term persistence of both C. serpentina and K. baurii.
24321238|Chemical analyses of green vs. decayed (fully-necrotic) leaf tissues of Thalassia testudinum revealed significant differences in mean ( 1 S.D.) percent dry weight/wet weight, 12.1  6.9% (green) vs. 23.1  16.6% (decayed), and in mean molar C:N ratio, 19.0  4.2 (green) vs. 39.2  8.8 (decayed). Conversely, there was an insignificant difference in mean in mean soluble protein, 8.2  1.1 mg/ml (green) vs. 6.8  5.0 mg/ml (decayed). In an amino acid derivatization analysis using HPLC, we detected 12 amino acids; valine and serine were detected in decayed leaves but not in green leaves, while proline and methionine were detected in green leaves but not in decayed leaves.
24319473|Hydrilla (Hydrilla verticillata Royle) was cultured in modified Hoagland's nutrient solutions having various concentrations of mineral elements. Maximum increase in dry wt occurred at 10% of basic Hoagland's concentrations of all elements with added sodium bicarbonate. Tissue contents of P and Ca were directly related to solution levels of these mineral elements; K accumulation appeared independent of solution concentration. Addition of NaHCO3 reduced P accumulation, but had no effect on Ca or K accumulation. Hydrilla appeared to utilize bicarbonate as a carbon source for photosynthesis.
24321009|Vehicle-related mortality (roadkill) of vertebrate wildlife was recorded during a 24-mo. survey along 48-km (30-mi.) of paved highway that traveled through urbanized, agricultural, and native landscapes in southwest Florida. We recorded 1,035 vertebrate roadkills, with mammals accounting for the greatest percentage (54%) of total roadkill and raccoons (Procyon Iotor) and other medium-sized mammals being the most frequently recorded species. Roadkill of herptiles (15%), which primarily were snakes, and unidentified species (20%) were recorded at similar rates and birds (11%) had the fewest roadkills. Roadkill did not vary due to differences in traffic speed and volume, but did vary by land use with lowest roadkill recorded in urbanized areas and all rural land use categories having similar levels of roadkill. Roadkill varied by season for herptiles and unidentified species and corresponded to Florida's annual cycle of wet and dry seasons and the availability of standing water in roadside ditches and pasture wetlands. Landscape features associated with human-made structures at two locations along the route had significantly greater roadkill than expected. These included an area adjacent to a wildlife exclusion fence, where roadkill of herptiles and unidentified species was elevated, but the reasons for higher roadkill at this location were not clear. The greatest number of total roadkills, primarily mammals, was recorded in association with a canal crossing and included 12% of all mammal roadkills recorded during this study.
24321041|Fecal specimens from 50 patients in the Province of Chalatenango, El Salvador were examined for parasites using zinc sulfate flotation of fresh feces and by direct smears of feces collected in Parasafe, Proto-Fix or Unifix fixatives following trichrome or acid-fast staining. The overall prevalence of parasitic infections in the patients was 64% (32/50). Two parasites, Entamoeba histolytica/dispar and Ascaris lumbricoides were found in large numbers, 20% (10/50) and 36% (18/50), respectively, and were used for the comparative studies. Trichrome staining of direct smears was most effective in identifying E. histolytica/dispar in specimens of all three fixatives and acid-fast staining did not reveal any amoeba. Ascaris lumbricoides eggs were consistently found using all three fixatives and with both staining methods. Zinc sulfate flotation of fresh feces was most effective for identification of A. lumbricoides eggs and trichrome staining of feces collected in Parasafe, Proto-fix or Unifix fixatives for the detection of E. histolytica/dispar.
24319611|Fifteen species of late Pleistocene and Recent mammals were recovered from St. Marks River localities. The western-most record in Florida for the extinct bog lemming, Synaptomys australis, is the only extinct species at a St. Marks locality otherwise yielding only Recent species.
24321110|The seasonal abundance of adult Diachlorus ferrugatus (F.) in Monroe County, Florida, was determined by collections in carbon dioxide-baited light traps. This species is most abundant from late May until early June, but may be encountered from mid-March until late August.
24320487|Litter biomass from biweekly basket collections was measured for seventeen months in two low hammocks in St. Lucie and Indian River Counties. A disturbed roadside habitat with both Quercus virginiana (live oak) and the exotic Grevillea robusta (silk oak) produced significantly more litter and exhibited higher variance among baskets and collection dates than an undisturbed hammock containing only Q. virginiana. Peak litterfall occurred in February at the disturbed site and more than one month later at the protected site 12 km distant. Differences between sites are probably attributable to differing species compositions and the relative importance of disturbance. Peak flowerfall lagged leaf fall by ca 1.5 months at each site.
24319984|Sea urchins (Lytechinus varigatus and Tripneustes ventricosus) were collected from a shallow, subtidal seagrass community in Biscayne Bay during Summer 1986. The population density of urchins within patches of seagrass was first estimated with quadrat sampling (mean = 0.54 urchins/m2). The statistical dispersion of urchins among quadrats was random. Density later was assessed by mark-recapture (nail polish was painted onto urchin spines). The Petersen estimate of density (0.47 urchins/m2) appeared to be in close agreement with the quadrat estimate, though the estimates were not statistically comparable.
24321993|The historic Everglades were defined by ridges, sloughs, tree islands, and flowing water. During the early to middle 20th Century, anthropogenic changes due to agricultural development and urbanization led to the creation of water conservation areas, disrupting the natural flow patterns. Restoration of the Everglades includes returning historic flows to portions of the remaining natural system, but there are no records of water velocities prior to man's influence. Constructed in 2003, the Loxahatchee Impoundment Landscape Assessment (LILA) was designed to provide a research platform for scientists to investigate the role of flow in the Everglades. This study had a dual purpose: to investigate and characterize flow patterns across a physical model of the Everglades at differing flow rates: to examine the capacity of the infrastructure of this physical model to generate specific flows across the landscape. It has been demonstrated that an overall flow of 5 cfs presents an optimal flow rate. An upstream flow rate of 8 cfs in LILA produced unpredicted flow patterns downstream that have relevance for Everglades flow restoration. At these high flow rates, shallow areas were short circuited, and the overall flow was unevenly distributed.
24319567|Reproductive data for 15 species of snakes in Florida are presented. The reproductive seasons of Coluber constrictor, Diadophis punctatus, Natrix fasciata, Thamnophis sauritus, and T. sirtalis are extended and may allow production of more than one annual clutch. The second known captive hatching of Florida Pituophis melanolencus is reported.
24319665|The absence of endemic Louisiana fishes may be attributed to historical and physiographic factors. The periodic inundation of the Mississippi Embayment by the Gulf of Mexico during early Pleistocene interglacial periods obliterated the freshwater ichthyofauna. Afterwards, the ample dispersal mechanisms available prevented isolation and subsequent speciation of fishes in Louisiana.
24322136|Amphibians have been shown to be important indicators for environmental change, particularly changes in water quality. The Southwest Florida Amphibian Monitoring Network was established in 2000 to collect long-term data on frog communities in southwest Florida. Twenty-two routes of 12 stops each are monitored monthly during the rainy season. Wind, temperature, humidity, sky condition, and habitat changes are recorded at each stop. Frog presence and abundance is indicated by calling intensity, which is tabulated using a three-level intensity code. Using data from the Network, frog communities were summarized, and factors that may explain differences in frog communities among sites and over time were investigated using measures of biological diversity, community classification, and community ordination. The data show an increased calling intensity in the exotic Cuban treefrog (Osteopilus septentrionalis), and a shift to native frog species requiring more permanent water. Continued monitoring may aid in understanding implications of altered hydroperiods and amphibian responses to restoration efforts. This type of citizen scientist database provides opportunities to investigate trends in environmental change on a landscape scale.
24319610|Water, sediment, and sand from recreational and other areas in the southern Biscayne Bay region were examined over a three month period (Sept.-Nov.) for the presence of both "indicator" and potentially pathogenic bacteria and yeasts. The Miami River was the most significant source of pollution (>105 total coliforms 100/ml); however, bathing beaches showed low densities of all microorganisms sought.
24320744|The phenology of pineywoods dropseed (Sporobolus junceus) after late winter and spring fires was evaluated. No significant relationship was found between basal area of pineywoods dropseed plants and the number of inflorescences produced per plant following the February fire; a significant but weak relationship was found in the plants following the May fire. Average basal diameter of plants at the February burn site (116.43 cm2) was significantly smaller than at the May burn site (185.91 cm2), possibly due to previous prescribed burns at the latter site. Following the May burn, pineywoods dropseed plants produced inflorescences and mature seed within seven to nine weeks of the fire.
24320489|Amphipods are often the most abundant macroinvertebrate associated with the exotic macrophyte waterhyacinth [Eichhornia crassipes (Mart.) Solms]. To determine the contribution of Hyalella azteca and Gammarus tigrinus to waterhyacinth decay, bags (202 um mesh) containing root or leaf litter were stocked at three densities (0, 5, and 15 per bag) and placed under waterhyacinth mats. Amphipods significantly increased (P<0.05) the rate of root and leaf decay. Decomposition rates (k values) ranged from 0.028 d-1 to 0.039 d-1 for leaf and from 0.008 d-1 to 0.011 d-1 for root detritus. Consumption was estimated at 0.081 mg dry leaf litter per mg dry amphipod on a daily basis. In addition to physical and chemical factors, the presence or absence of shredding amphipods may substantially influence the rate of waterhyacinth breakdown.
24321914|This paper documents the plant assemblage found in large constructed treatment wetlands built for Everglades restoration, the Stormwater Treatment Areas (STAs) in south Florida. Eighty vascular and macroalgae plant species were identified at marsh sites across all the STAs, while an additional 43 species were unique to the marsh-levee ecotone in STA-1W. The STA flora was dominated by herbaceous taxa (83% of species) whose wetland status was primarily obligate, facultative wetland or facultative (collectively 77% of species). Twenty-seven percent of species were introduced non-natives. Six species were common (present in 10% or more of samples) across all the STAs: Chara sp., Hydrilla verticillata, Lemna sp., Najas guadalupensis, Sagittaria lancifolia and Typha domingensis. Only one species, T. domingensis, was common in samples from each STA. Species richness in the STAs was significantly correlated with sampling effort but not with median water depth or wetland age, although there was a weak positive trend with age. A non-parametric estimator of species richness, the Chao 2 metric, predicted a lower bound of 89 species at marsh sites. Treatment cells dominated by submersed aquatic vegetation (SAV) pooled across all the STAs were slightly more species rich than cells dominated by emergent aquatic vegetation (EAV) (64 vs. 57 species, respectively), but there was no consistent pattern in species richness between EAV and SAV cells within individual STAs.
24319620|Sight and photographic records are reported for 11 species which were rare or previously unknown for the island.
24320320|A rich ravine woods, inhabited by many unique plants including Torreya taxifolia was cleared 27 yr ago. A recent survey has revealed that the system's major features remain, including a living Torreya.
24321905|Monitoring of benthic invertebrate communities in aquatic ecosystems has been used to evaluate a variety of environmental effects, including changes in hydrology. As part of a hydroecological assessment of the St. Johns River, FL, we studied invertebrate communities of shoreline and floodplain marsh habitats at locations in the middle and upper St. Johns River. A total of 112 invertebrate taxa were identified. Most were aquatic insects in the orders Odonata, Hemiptera, Coleoptera and Diptera. We examined a variety of metrics of invertebrate community structure and a surrogate measure of ecosystem function. Some of these metrics displayed patterns that could be related to hydrology. Preliminary sampling in floodplain marsh habitats with varying duration of inundation suggested some hydroecological patterns; relative abundance of taxa indicative of more permanent aquatic habitats (Ephemeroptera and Amphipoda) had a positive relationship with duration of inundation. Taxa able to undergo diapause during dry periods (Oligochaeta), those able to disperse to new habitats (Diptera, Coleoptera), and those with short life cycles adapted to temporary habitats (Diptera) had negative relationships between relative abundance and duration of inundation. We propose three new metrics that may be useful for future monitoring.
24319743|Nutrient solution leached through soil in which wax myrtle was rooted inhibited growth of schinus. Aqueous leaf extracts of wax myrtle leaves inhibit germination of beans, and possibly of schinus. Allelopathy by wax myrtle reduces the vigor of schinus, and may increase its susceptibility to competitors and pests. Because of the ecological similarity of wax myrtle and schinus, encouragement of myrtle growth may be an effective biological control tool.
24320682|One species of cattails, Typha domingensis, was screened for allelopathic chemicals. Cattail plants differing in stages of maturation, were collected from two locations. Portions of the plants (stem base, roots and the surrounding detritus) were separated, and then either extracted with deionized water at room temperature or extracted in an autoclave for 25 min. at 120C and 15 psi. The organic content was the same for both methods (6176 vs 6194 ppm, for room temperature and autoclaved, respectively). Aqueous phenol was used as a standard. Bioassays were performed using three varieties of lettuce seeds (Black Seeded Simpson, Salad Bowl, and Bibb), as well as on Red Devil B radish seeds. Behavior was similar for all varieties of lettuce (abnormal growth) and delay in germination for radish seeds in the presence of extracts. Seedling growth using the autoclaved extracts or room temperature extracts resulted in abnormal development. EC50 for inhibition of growth of lettuce seeds was 90 ppm(as organic carbon, Corg) versus about 10 ppm phenol (or 7.7 ppm Corg). Partial purification using a C8 column, provided fractions of the cattail extract containing inhibitory agents. These fractions were used to imbibe test lettuce seeds to help provide additional allelopathic characterization. Lyngbya majuscula was also studied and inhibition of oxygen production (Warburg apparatus) occurred after adding extracts. Total carbon and inorganic carbon analyses were performed on the extracts.
24319622|Sand samples from the intertidal zone of five marine sand beaches of the Florida Gulf coast and two beaches in the Bahamas were positive without exception for species of Azotobacter. If nitrogen fixation by Azotobacter occurs in marine sand beaches, as these observations suggest, this process may contribute significantly to the basic productivity of the interstitial unicellular flora and to that of the benthic algae and seagrasses adjacent to sea beaches.
24320385|The changes in distribution of the macroalga Caulerpa prolifera was determined between 1986 and 1989 in the northern and central portion of the Indian River lagoon, Florida. Aerial photography coupled with groundtruthing was used to map submerged aquatic vegetation.
24319405|Morphometric characteristics of raccoons from Marco Island, Collier County, Florida are presented. The raccoons were subspecies Procyon lotor marinus and data presented supplements and expands previously published information concerning this subspecies.
24312044|Students enrolled for the science methods course at FTU are provided with formal exposure to science laboratory teaching techniques and technology by service in an introductory laboratory under supervision of the faculty member in charge. This individualized, professionally directed, "hands on" experience has proven successful for teacher candidates.
24320788|FT-IR was used to allow students to analyze microscale size samples and to provide for experience and interaction with modern computer-driven instruments in a lab setting. Exercises and an instruction manual were written to help students: (a) learn the operation, construction, and theory of a FT-IR spectrometer, (b) acquire and manipulate spectra using the "Windows" based OMNIC software, and (c) follow structural changes during a slow reaction by observing changes in the IR spectrum. Because of the speed and ease of operation of the FT-IR an entire twenty-four member lab section can able to obtain the necessary spectra during the lab period.
24319933|Almost all of the 99 species of shallowwater pelecypods now living in Bermuda colonized these remote islands via a sweepstakes route provided by the Florida Current and the Gulf Stream. More than half of these species have a very wide geographic distribution, and 66, or two thirds of the species living in Bermuda, also live in Brazil. Seven of the species living in Bermuda also live in the tropical eastern Pacific. Only 2 species are endemic to Bermuda.
24320531|This paper presents a computational neural mechanism, a neural derivative, and confirms through the use of Schiller's (1982) experiments that this theoretical structure behaves in exactly the same manner as do motion detectors observed in the rhesus monkey. This strongly suggests that the neural derivative presented is a fundamental functional unit of the early visual system. These experiments indicate that the on-center off-surround architecture can operate as a neural derivative, and can thus be one of the motion detection mechanisms employed in vivo. The Veto mechanism, another motion detector, may or may not be a neural derivative, depending on the structure of its dendritic trees.
24320582|Macroinvertebrates of the northern Everglades are adapted to temporary waters with fluctuating oxygen concentrations, and periodic high (> 35.0 C) temperatures. Despite harsh conditions, the macroinvertebrate assemblage was surprisingly diverse with species richness values similar to well-oxygenated, lotic ecosystems. One hundred and forty-eight taxa of macroinvertebrates were identified from sloughs in the northern Everglades. Although the diversity and density of macroinvertebrates in sloughs were dominated by Chironomidae, Gastropoda, and Coleoptera, the amphipod Hyallella azteca was the most abundant species collected. Macroinvertebrate diversity and density was reduced in dense sawgrass. Almost all taxa, however, were well represented within man-made canals where amphipods and the freshwater shrimp Palaemonetes paludosus were extremely abundant. Trophic categories were dominated by grazers and collector-gatherers. Energy flow was equally distributed through grazer and detritivore pathways. Macroinvertebrates of the northern Everglades are characterized by common species from North America and the southeastern United States with a few colonists from Central and South America. However, two species, the most abundant snail Planorbella duryi and the mayfly Callibaetis floridanus, are endemic to the Florida peninsula.
24321738|A specimen of Lypotigris reginalis (Stoll) (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae) is reported from Vaca Key. This appears to be only the second record of this species from the Florida Keys. St. Andrew's cotton stainer, Dysdercus andreae (L.) (Hemiptera: Pyrrhocoridae), numbers on Vaca Key were greatly reduced following the Hurricane Wilma storm surge. A specimen of an undescribed louse parasite of Key deer was found being carried phoretically by a female black salt marsh mosquito.
24320748|This report provides observations of insect visitors to an infestation of sand pine (Pinus clausa) by the aphid Cinara pinivora, along with a list of collected specimens. Yellow jackets (Vespula squamosa) and other Hymenoptera were the most common visitors. Unlike many other aphid infestations, however, only one species of ant was collected (Camponotus abdominalis floridanus). Night collections consisted of over 90% male mosquitoes (Culex prob. nigripalpus). For some species, this report may constitute a rare observation of adult feeding behavior.
24321240|During the summer of 2003, an uncharacteristically high number of intense upwelling events occurred along the east central coast of Florida. A bottom-mounted temperature logger collected hourly seawater temperatures on hard-bottom habitat 0.4 km offshore of North Hutchinson Island from 29 May to 21 August 2003. During this time, six upwelling events occurred in which low temperatures ranged between 1621C. Early and late summer upwelling events averaged 12.3 and 5.3 days, respectively. A series of Pearson correlations between time series data from the logger and those of surface estimates from SeaWiFS suggest that the longer upwelling events in early summer eventually resulted in similar surface and bottom temperatures. In turn, the shorter upwelling events during late summer appear to have resulted in stronger thermoclines because of less time for mixing between surface and bottom waters. Analysis of local meteorological data suggests that wind stress was not upwelling favorable during most of the summer yet may have played a supplementary role in producing some of the upwelling events.
24320287|The Cenozoic stratigraphic record of peninsular Florida is analyzed for the amount of time each unit represents, using techniques from Schindel (1980) and Sadler (1981). Calculations based on different assumed rates of sediment deposition show that each stratigraphic unit generally represents less time and becomes more incomplete as the record becomes younger. The early Paleogene ages and epochs are the best represented in the record and probably serve as the most promising strata for the study of long-term processes. Study of short-term processes (1,000 yr or less) may be more difficult and should be carried out with care because none of the units analyzed are even near 100% completeness at finer resolutions.
24320444|Fifteen races of hydrilla [Hydrilla verticillata (L.f.) Royle], collected throughout its geographical range, were grown for 5 weeks in natural water with the pH adjusted to 5, 7 or 9. Growth varied between as well as within races in response to individual pH. The largest growth increase occurred within the pH 7 treatment. A 700 % difference occurred among races between the high and low ends of the response range. Growth response varied 5-fold between races at pH 5 and pH 9. Maximum growth of each race occurred at pH 7. Next best growth occurred at pH 5 with inhibition occurring in only 2 of 15 races. Reduced growth in 10 of 15 races at pH 9 may have been related to reduced free carbon dioxide supplies. Because growth was not completely inhibited is evidence that bicarbonate utilization mitigated the effects of limited availability of free carbon dioxide. Plants from the highly productive Queensland and Bangalore races exhibited a high tolerance for diverse pH. This indicates an ability to adapt, to colonize diverse habitats and to become more serious pests than races already established in the U.S.
24320665|This field study examined the distribution among emergent plant stems of egg clutches deposited by the amphibious Florida applesnail in four types of marsh in east central Florida. Clutch density was highest along the edge of sawgrass marsh and zero in deep marsh. Densities in maidencane and mixed shallow marshes were about one-third the density in sawgrass. In all marsh types, clutches occurred preferentially on plants having broad stems that generally exceeded 6 mm in diameter at water level. Substratum limitation for oviposition increased with the frequency of narrow-stemmed plants, but stem height was rarely limiting. The four marsh types did not differ in the protection available to clutches against variation in water level. The plant species most used for oviposition were Cladium jamaicense, Crinum americanum, Pontederia cordata, and Sagittaria lancifolia. Management of applesnail habitat should favor a heterogeneous community of broad-stemmed emergent aquatic plants at moderate density.
24320413|This report describes the permitting process in which federal, state, and local permitting agencies accepted a Rotational Impoundment Management (RIM) plan as mitigation for wetlands impacted during development of a riverfront subdivision at Indian River Impoundment #6 (Pine Island, 129.5 ha [320 ac]). Impoundment #6 was seasonally re-integrated to the Indian River lagoon through culverts installed in the dike and water levels were carefully controlled with a permanent, electric pump. Limited biological monitoring, as required by the permits, indicated that the impoundment responded positively to RIM. Operating permit flexibility allowed for modifications that monitoring and management experience indicated were necessary.
24319555|In contrast to earlier studies which examined the relationships among pacifism, religious affiliation and partisanship, a pattern was found whereby partisanship, rather than religious affiliation, dominated attitudes toward pacifism. This appears explainable in terms of the political party occupying the presidency and not religious doctrine.
24321664|Direct measurement (seepage meter) studies, as well as isotope and some modeling studies, have indicated very high rates (>0.027 m day-1) of groundwater seepage to the Indian River Lagoon (IRL). Field and lab methodology studies confirm the accuracy of the seepage meter technique, and available water level and hydrogeologic data from surrounding wells support the high seepage results in the southern and northern reaches of the IRL. The high measured seepage rates imply that groundwater loading of various pollutants to the IRL may also be high, and data from selected Mosquito Lagoon and St. Lucie Estuary OSDS sites in the watershed show high loading rates for nutrients. The importance of submarine groundwater discharge to the Indian River Lagoon must be established in order to understand the relationship between lagoon hydrology and water quality, enabling better lagoon management to occur.
24321994|Little is known about predation on the red lionfish, Pterois volitans, in invaded habitats. In this note, we report for the first time a spotted moray, Gymnothorax moringa, successfully attacking and eating a still alive, but injured (speared) adult red lionfish in San Salvador, Bahamas. We describe the consumption of the red lionfish and the response behavior of the predator. Understanding predation pressures on red lionfish in the western Atlantic Ocean is of great significance given the rapid growth of this invasive species and its potential effects on populations of coral reef fish. This important problem is exacerbated by the fact that top predators have largely been overfished in the western Atlantic, thus removing potential predators for this invasive species. Our observation suggests that the spotted moray and, by extrapolation, other morays might represent a naturally occurring top-down control agent of invasive red lionfish. Muraenids in general could play a critical role as bio-control forces because moray eel populations have been largely spared the effects of overfishing.
24320456|An in situ survival test of fishes using hypoxic impounded mangrove swamps indicated that some fishes change vertical position within the water column when compared to observations under more oxygenated conditions. These observations led us to experimentally examine changes in vertical position and activity under hypoxic conditions in juvenile snook, Centropomus undecimalis, which are indigenous to mangrove swamp habitats. These experimental data support our in situ data and indicate that juvenile snook move towards the oxygenated surface waters and decrease activity there when deeper waters are anoxic.
24320143|The food habits of the lemon shark, Negaprion brevirostris, were investigated by examining the stomach contents of juveniles between 58 and 100 cm in total length from shallow grass flats near Sandy Key in western Florida Bay, Everglades National Park, Florida. Small demersal fish, mainly Opsanus beta and Lagodon rhombodes, and the commercially important pink shrimp, Penaeus duorarum, were the most common dietary items of N. brevirostris in the coastal marine waters. Small, fast-moving pelagic fishes were also found in the shark's diet.
24320757|We examined pollination in natural populations of the rare Florida scrub endemic Dicerandra frutescens (Lamiaceae) to determine if pollinator specialization or poor pollinator service were factors in this species ' restricted range and decline. Pollinators were observed in six populations in timed watches at various times of day, on plants of different sizes, and in different conditions. The bee fly Exprosopa fasciata (Diptera: Bombyliidae) made 95% of all visits, and an average flower received about 46 bee fly visits. Plants in more open sites, plants with more flowers, and sun-lit plants received significantly more visits. Bee-flies contact anthers in the morning, while stigmas bend up to receive pollen in the afternoon. The structure of D. frutescens flowers is specialized for large insects with long tongues. A system of concealed pollen and triggered pollen release may protect pollen from smaller insects and desiccation. Pollen deposition on the undersides of visiting insects suggests fly, rather than bee pollination. Related Dicerandra species with different pollinators have structurally-different flowers. Based on the large numbers of visits and the observed movements of the bee fly, pollinator limitation appears unlikely. Furthermore, the bee fly is a common species that feeds on many plant species. Although Dicerandra frutescens is highly dependent on a single pollinator, it is unlikely that this has contributed to its rarity nor made it vulnerable to extinction. Instead, microhabitat specificity, habitat destruction, and fire-suppression are the major threats.
24319716|'Valencia' orange, Citrus sinensis (L.) Osb., accumulated sugars and cold-hardened when exposed to light and a constant 10C for 28 da. Sucrose was the primary sugar accumulated, with concentrations exceeding 60 mg/gm of leaf dry weight. Sucrose accumulation was closely correlated with the onset of frost hardening.
24319767|In this article I discuss the evolution and development of a death education program at Polk Community College, Polk County, Florida. Included is an overview of the community role involvement typical of such colleges and a working model for enhancing that involvement in any college/community setting. The social and institutional resources usually available in the environment of most colleges are listed and discussed as areas of need and as justification for the development of death education programs at community colleges.
24319679|The pKa's determined for ethyl 4-methyl-2,3,5-triketocyclopentylglyoxalate, 3-methylcyclopentane-1,2,4-trione, and 2-methylcyclopentane-1,3-dione indicate unusually high acidities. Nuclear magnetic resonance spectra were obtained.
24320015|A population of feral hogs increased to the point of causing noticeable ecological damage and was a general nuisance in the rapidly urbanizing area northeast of the University of South Florida campus in Hillsborough County. A technique was employed which effectively eliminated the wild hog population (25 adults, plus juveniles) within three months. The composition and characteristics of this semiurban population are discussed.
24320662|Basking behavior of Anolis sagrei and A. distichus was studied by examining the differences in basking patterns between males and females within and between the two species. Males and females within a species do not correlate in basking patterns which may suggest there are differences in activities between the sexes. Males of A. sagrei and A. distichus do correlate in their basking patterns while females differ. Because these species are members of the same feeding guild, male basking patterns correlate strongly. This is not true for females, probably because females need less time to bask and may partition their basking niche more closely.
24321208|The aplousohranch ascidian species Aplidium antillense (Gravier, 1955) was found growing on floating docks in Fort Pierce, Florida in the Indian River Lagoon. Previously described from several locations in the Caribbean and Bermuda, this is the first record from the continental North American coast. The description of A. antillense is augmented: it is concluded that the species can be distinguished from similar ones occurring in Florida by the number of stomach plications (1114). The present report draws attention to A. antillense and will eventually allow a more rigorous investigation of the taxonomy and biogeography of the diverse genus Aplidium.
24322274|Between July 1996 and October 2001,190 boat-based photo-identification surveys were carried out on the population of bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) in Florida's Indian River Lagoon. Survey effort varied geographically across and within study years, but was relatively high and consistent (number of surveys = 158, 83%) between 1998 and 2001 in the primary study area (PSA) between Sebastian Inlet in the north to Ft. Pierce Inlet in the south. A total of 336 dolphins were photographically identified, with 149 of these individuals found in the PSA. Evidence for short term fidelity within the IRL was derived from an analysis of 67 dolphins sighted eight or more times. The average site fidelity ratio for these more frequently sighted dolphins was 91%. Further, 57% of these dolphins were sighted in each of their five (45%) or four (12%) possible sighting years. Evidence for even longer-term site fidelity of 20 y comes from continued sightings across the five-year study period of 11 dolphins marked with freeze brands between 1979 and 1981. In the aggregate, these photo-identification data suggest that a more geographically extensive survey strategy, over a longer time scale is needed to assess important details of the population structure of IRL bottlenose dolphins.
24319732|We present the results of a study sponsored by the State of Florida to investigate the feasibility of retrofit installations of Energy Management Systems (EMS) in all State buildings. Evaluation criteria included profile of energy usage, physical suitability of facilities for installation of EMS and Life Cycle Cost (LCC) of proposed installations. The primary screening and analysis were based on economics. A candidate project was required to have LCC payback period of less than the estimated life of the facility. The LCC model incorporated projected escalation of fuel cost, inflation factors and a 6% interest rate. A sensitivity analysis was used to determine the most critical cost items in the LCC analysis. To ensure its utility, the effort provided performance specifications and cost guidelines for several categories of systems and identified specific buildings by operational department as prime candidates for EMS.
24319914|Following the April 26, 1986, accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power station, atmospheric particulate samples collected in east Orange County, Florida, were examined for evidence of radioisotopes released to the environment by the accident. Passage of the radioactive debris cloud was observed by monitoring gamma rays emitted by three isotopes that would be expected to form a substantial part of the reactor's fission by-product inventory. Activities measured would have resulted in whole-body exposures to individuals in the Central Florida population of only about 0.004 % of the yearly maximum permissible levels recommended by national and international authorities.
24319640|Surveys of Bryozoa occurring on algal substrata were carried out in the shallow subtidal and deep (30-90 m) continental shelf waters of the Florida East Coast. Twenty-eight species of bryozoans were found on 12 species of algae in the shallow subtidal. Thirty-six species of bryozoans were found on 12 species of algae at the continental shelf stations. Membranipora tuberculata and Thalamoporella gothica floridana were the most common bryozoan species in the coastal collections, and Aetea sica and Microporella ciliata in the continental shelf collections. No bryozoans were found on noncalcified Chlorophyta. The calcified Chlorophyta and the more massive species of Phaeophyta and Rhodophyta were the preferred substrata.
24320535|During the last decade, the ozone levels of both Hillsborough and Pinellas counties have significantly increased. Although each county is primarily urban and in close proximity, Hillsborough County has traditionally experienced a greater number of exceedences of the Federal standard (120 ppb). An investigation was undertaken to determine the effects meteorological elements, principally wind velocity, surface temperatures, and the seabreeze phenomenon, have on the mass transference of ozone in the region. In addition, the continual expansion of urban areas and the resultant increase of vehicular traffic were also considered. The results of this research indicate that the impending ozone crisis is a regional rather than an individual county problem.
24320242|We monitored 7 shallow wells along a transect crossing all of the major habitats in the Okefenokee Swamp and measured water levels, hydroperiods, and water table gradients. Although differences in ground surface elevations between habitats are minor within the swamp, hydroperiods varied from 246-346 da during 1977-78. Extrapolation from nearby staff gauge records indicates that marsh, shrub, and cypress communities were dry for periods of a month or more during 27 of the 36 yr of record, but waterlily communities were without surface water for a month or more only during 16 yr. Water table gradients suggest that ground water flows into the swamp from the surrounding uplands except during droughts, when the flow is reversed.
24319588|The known range of snook is extended about 100 miles westward to Santa Rosa Sound.
24320174|In 1980, the Florida legislature enacted the Florida Energy Efficiency and Conservation Act in recognition of the importance energy conservation plays in solving the energy problems facing the state. The act required the Florida Public Service Commission (FPSC) to set two statewide goals: one, to reduce the growth rate of both electric energy consumption and weather-sensitive peak electric demand, and two, to reduce the level of oil consumption in electric power plants. With the passage of this act Florida became one of the first states in the nation to have a legislatively-mandated electrical energy conservation policy. After a series of public hearings at which testimony was offered by Florida utilities, the FPSC staff, and a number of state and national expert witnesses, the FPSC adopted a set of conservation goals for Florida's electric utilities. Following adoption of these goals, there has been a substantial reduction in the growth rate of electrical use in Florida and a marked reduction in oil use in power plants. More stringent goals were proposed, but the FPSC judged that a lack of Florida-specific conservation program evaluation data prevented it from adopting higher goals. This paper describes the Florida Energy Efficiency and Conservation Act (FEECA), discusses the FPSC goals and the goal-setting process, and presents the results of the first five years of the FEECA goals operation.
24319758|A nutrition survey in 4 Central Amazon villages during 19771978 revealed that 31.4% of 2069 children under 72 mo of age were moderately to severely malnourished according to Latin American standards for weight and age. Results from the survey and additional data from the author's field research indicated that the causes of malnutrition were imbedded in a complicated, interwoven mesh of social, cultural, economic and environmental factors. A preliminary analysis of these causal factors is presented.
24320566|Aspartic acid (Asp) is one of the fastest racemizing amino acids due to stabilization of the intermediate carbanion by the electron withdrawing beta carboxyl group. Aqueous solutions of free L-aspartic acid were heated at 100C for various lengths of time in the presence of dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) and without DMSO (controls). The amount of racemization increased as a function of time in both sets of samples, but to a greater extent in the presence of DMSO. Racemization also increased as the percent of DMSO in solution increased. It is postulated that the increased racemization in DMSO is due to a combination of the higher dielectric constant of DMSO and symmetrical solvation of the intermediate carbanion by DMSO, thus further stabilizing the carbanion.
24320713|Tampa Bay was accepted into the National Estuary Program in 1990. The Tampa Bay National Estuary Program (TBNEP) is a four-year program charged with development and initiation of a "Masterplan" for long-term management of Tampa Bay. Partners in TBNEP include the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Florida Department of Environmental Protection, Southwest Florida Water Management District, the counties of Hillsborough, Pinellas and Manatee, and the cities of St. Petersburg, Tampa and Clearwater. Two major elements comprise the four-year program: characterization of the bay's resources and priority problems, and development of specific management actions to address identified priority problems. The Tampa Bay NEP has completed much of the characterization work, and is well into development of management actions. A brief description of the watershed management approach currently under development and the direct link to restoration of critical habitats is presented here. The final watershed management approach will comprise a central element of the Comprehensive Masterplan for Tampa Bay, due in 1995.
24322132|The use of phytoplankton chlorophyll a to indicate eutrophication in the Caloosahatchee Estuary and San Carlos Bay was evaluated. Responses of chlorophyll a to nutrient loading and freshwater discharge at the Franklin Lock and Dam located at the head of the estuary were examined. Relationships between chlorophyll a and dissolved oxygen and light attenuation in the downstream estuary and bay were also investigated. Statistically significant positive correlations with nutrient loading in the lower estuary and San Carlos Bay, significant association between increasing chlorophyll a and decreasing dissolved oxygen in bottom waters in the estuary, and positive correlation between light attenuation and chlorophyll a in San Carlos Bay argue for the use of chlorophyll a to indicate eutrophication. Relationships between chlorophyll a and freshwater discharge indicated a flushing or 'wash out' effect. Review of the literature suggested that discharge of dark, colored water enhanced light attenuation. Both effects of discharge would suppress the accumulation of chlorophyll biomass. While chlorophyll a might be used to indicate eutrophication in the Caloosahatchee, useful interpretation of the response of this indicator to future reductions in nutrient loading must account for the modulating effects of freshwater discharge exerted through flushing and reductions in light availability.
24321899|Pseudodendromonas vlkii (Protista, Bicosoecidida), a free swimming heterotrophic protist genus sporadically reported from both marine and freshwater habitats, is reported from Florida. Isolated scales from Pseudodendromonas vlkii was observed by using TEM. The genus currently comprises three species of which only one has been reported from North America.
24320712|A model was developed that uses land-based measurements of photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) to compute instantaneous and annual average estimates of PAR in water of Tampa Bay. Model input was 255 days of 15- or 5-minute averages of incident irradiance measured at sites near Tampa Bay. Annually, 49% (380 mol m-2s-1) of the incident irradiance measured with a spherical (4  steradians) sensor is estimated to enter the water of Tampa Bay. The model can be used to predict the average depth and, with bathymetry, the areas of bay bottom that have adequate light available to support seagrass. For example, if Thalassia testudinum requires a long-term average of 20% of incident PAR for survival, the model predicted that depths of potential seagrass habitat for T. testudinum are 0.7, 1.5, 2.5, and 7.5m for water clarities corresponding to the attenuation coefficients of 1.0, 0.5, 0.3, and 0.1-1, respectively.
24320400|A review of the Florida crayfish fauna is presented as an update of Hobbs' 1942 monograph "The Crayfishes of Florida." As currently understood, this fauna includes 50 species belonging to six genera. Distributional information and recent nomenclatural changes are summarized.
24320515|Distributions of the six species of sneezeweeds (Helenium) in Florida are discussed. The first record of Helenium autumnale L. for the Florida Peninsula and Orange County is documented.
24321239|With a focus on geckos, building-dwelling amphibians and reptiles at Savannas Preserve State Park in Martin and St. Lucie counties, Florida, were intensively censused over a four month winter-spring period so as to determine the status of exotic species on 10 buildings of this rural-urban park encapsulated by suburban development. Our findings supported the hypothesis that invasion by Hemidactylus mabouia was recent, and that it was incapable of stable co-existence with its ecologically analogous congener on buildings. Our findings also underscore the rapid pace at which ecological processes can occur in non-indigenous faunal communities.
24321931|This study was conducted to determine seasonal patterns of occurrence of larval flatfish along the edge of the Gulf Stream off the coast of Florida. Although flatfish are commercially harvested, their spawning seasons, larval biology, and the role of larval transport in maintaining populations are poorly known. Larval flatfish are primarily pelagic and have the potential to be transported by the Gulf Stream, which would reduce recruitment in southern habitats and possibly increase recruitment in northern regions. Bimonthly plankton sampling across the edge of the Gulf Stream in 2007 provided data on 13 species of flatfish. For the three most abundant flatfish species, Bothus ocellatus, Citharichthys cornutus, and Syacium papillosum, larvae were present throughout the year, with peak densities of all three species occurring in the summer months. Throughout the sampling period the highest overall densities were represented by B. ocellatus. Data regarding size, seasonality, and location along the transect provided additional evidence for spawning periodicity and transport of the flatfish species.
24321141|Competition between Neotoma floridana, Key Largo cotton mouse, and Peromyscus gossypinus, Key Largo woodrat, was investigated in tropical hardwood hammocks of Key Largo, Florida. A dynamic regression technique using time series data was used to determine if intraand interspecific competition was occurring. Intraspecific competition was found in both species. P. gossypinus had a competitive effect on N. floridana, but there was no competitive effect of N. floridana on P. gossypinus.
24321665|An increase in deposition of fine-grained, organic-rich sediment and a decline in seagrass abundance in the Indian River Lagoon System (IRL), Florida, are linked to increased inputs of total suspended solids (TSS). To learn more about the composition and sources of TSS in the IRL, samples were collected during fall 2003, spring 2004 and summer 2004 in the following areas: (1) southern Mosquito Lagoon, (2) IRL near Turnbull Creek, (3) Banana River Lagoon, (4) IRL near Turkey Creek and (5) IRL in Vero Beach. Concentrations of TSS ranged from 1.925.0 mg/L and correlated well (r = 0.95) with values for turbidity. Using selected chemical data, the average TSS in this study of the IRL were categorized as follows: (1) 18% terrestrial organic matter, (2) 30% organic matter produced in the lagoon, (3) 34% aluminosilicates/clays and (4) 18% other inorganic matter. Distinct differences in abundance, composition and likely sources of TSS were found geographically. These differences can be used to help guide decisions regarding management of TSS and to help better understand local variations in sedimentation patterns and seagrass abundance in the IRL.
24320650|Patterns of historic native vegetation and vascular flora of the urbanized barrier island of Key Biscayne are reviewed from 19th and 20th century documents. A recently discovered tropical hardwood hammock is inventoried.
24320146|A new subspecies of the skipper Synapte malitiosa is described, based on a series of 60 specimens from Hispaniola, West Indies.
24320435|We studied seasonal water relations in three scrub oak species on the southern Lake Wales Ridge during 1989. Xylem water potential and soil-water content were used to characterize site and species differences in moisture status. Plants in scrubby flatwoods had the lowest water potential, especially during times of more severe drought. On sandhill sites, moisture status was most favorable. Site differences in predawn xylem potential were not correlated with site differences in distance to water table or site differences in surface (0-40 cm) soil moisture. Quercus chapmanii had more negative water potentials than the other oaks studied. These results suggest site and species difference in water relations and the potential for different drought adaptations among the oak species.
24320112|Biscayne Bay is a semi-tropical lagoon adjacent to Miami, Florida. Tides are semi-diurnal and vary from about 2.5 ft amplitude at inlets to 0.5 ft in the interior basins. Nutrients are available in northern sections but relatively scarce in the southern bay. Primary productivity in the south is mainly from seagrasses and algae, while in the north phytoplankton is more important. Diverse invertebrate and fish populations occur, but few species are extremely abundant. Activities such as dredge and fill, sewage pollution, causeway construction and shoreline modifications have altered circulation and nutrient cycles. The greatest impact has been observed near Miami but changes are occurring in the southern regions as well. Hopeftdly, informed and active citizens and the Dade County, State and Federal governments will continue efforts such as creation of the Biscayne National Monument and the Florida Power and Light Cooling Reservoir to protect Biscayne Bay and to provide public access for recreation. Planning is needed now, and action must be taken, before options run out and cost escalates to the point where conservation and restoration is economically impossible.
24320126|Aerial photography (1944-1981), field studies (1976-1983), survey records (1855-1920), and timber cruise reports (1921-1922) provided information on past and present southern Lake Wales Ridge vegetation at eight study sites which each included mesic and xeric vegetation associations. Three findings were linked to reduced fire frequencies: 1) expansion of mesic broad-leaved evergreen bayhead vegetation into adjacent flatwoods and some seasonal ponds, 2) substantial slash pine regeneration in flatwoods, and 3) increased growth of scrub oaks and hickory in xeric sandhills accompanied by low slash and longleaf pine regeneration. Other xeric associations (i.e., scrubby flatwoods and sand pine and rosemary scrubs) remained relatively stable with only one possible instance of sand pine loss due to a prolonged absence of fire. However, repeated burns were responsible for losses of sand pine at two other sites. Successional changes in swales and most seasonal ponds were minor and appeared to be controlled more by water levels than fire.
24319950|The distribution of Geochelone carbonaria in the West Indies is reviewed and both published records and new collections are cited. Four hypotheses for its distribution are discussed: (1) natural dispersal, (2) introduction by prehistoric indians, (3) introduction by early European settlers, and (4) recent introduction as pets. None of these can be irrefutably supported by the distributional data, and the present distribution may be the result of a combination of dispersal modes.
24320402|Fishes were collected from six locations along the freshwater portion of the Peace River from 1983 through 1988. Analysis of fish community characteristics such as species richness, diversity, abundance, biomass and species composition indicated the fish community of the Peace River has been significantly impacted by human activities. Degraded water quality and invasion of exotic fishes have altered species composition, diversity and fish production. Effluent from headwater lakes and streams increased turbidity and biological oxygen demand in the upper 35-km section of the river that was dominated by pollution-tolerant fishes. Dilution from tributaries exhibiting higher water quality improved biotic conditions downstream as evidenced by higher species diversity and more complex fish community structure. Tidal influence on the lower 35-km portion of the river reduced flushing and stressed conditions were indicated by lower species richness and diversity. Fish community structure at the lower river was dominated by large piscivores and omnivores.
24322281|Although the number of non-native herpetofaunal species in Florida has increased rapidly over the last few decades, no exotic amphibian or reptile species has yet been documented to exhibit a range-wide decline since its introduction. In this paper, I document the likely modes of introduction, geographic distribution, and present ecological status of the yellow-headed gecko, Gonatodes albogularis, in Florida. Gonatodes albogularis was first found in Florida from Opa-Locka, Miami-Dade County, in 1934, but was likely transferred from Key West, Monroe County, where the species was originally introduced and first documented in 1939. This species was also likely transported from Key West to other sites in southern Florida. The last known preserved specimen was collected in 1989 and last field observation occurred in 1995, both on Key West. Additional field surveys from December 1995 through December 2004 throughout the Florida Keys and southern peninsula yielded zero observations of this species, suggesting that it has undergone population declines or local extirpation. This is the first exotic herpetofaunal species in Florida that has been documented exhibiting a range-wide decline since its establishment.
24320763|Cattails, Typha domingensis, can be a nuisance because of their notable growth in natural waters in Florida. Previous research has indicated that these materials produce substances that are allelopathic, and two chemicals identified in the aqueous extract were 2-chlorophenol and salicylaldehyde. The present study examines sediment samples in a pond infested with cattails, and using gas chromatography the two allelopathic compounds were detected in sediments near, but not 2 m from, T. domingensis.
24319406|Students enrolled in a drug abuse education course at FTU were questioned about drug use habits. Three drugsalcohol, tobacco, and marijuanawere the only drugs on the survey list that were used by a relatively large percentage of those surveyed.
24320132|Inter-regional shipment of foods has generally been expected to erase geographical differences in mineral nutrients in the food chain. Gradually, iodine supply and then selenium (Se) have been recognized to vary geographically, with corresponding effects of deficiencies in livestock and human beings in different countries, states, and counties through epidemiological research. Such a study is reported herein for the 67 counties of Florida for the leading causes of death, namely, heart failure and stomach and colorectal cancer. The 1979-1982 average variations between counties in age-adjusted heart death rates range more than 4-fold (155 to 639/100,000/y in Alachua and Pinellas counties, respectively). Corresponding variations for 1979-1981 for deaths from stomach and colorectal cancer range over 13-fold (14 to 189/100,000/y for Columbia and Pinellas counties, respectively). A positive correlation (r = 0.73; p < 0.001) occurs between the two causes of death in the various counties (even though basically "competitive"). This correlation suggests the involvement of land factors (soils, water, crops) causing the deaths may vary in a somewhat common pattern. The counties with lower rates occur where soil clay content, less porous limestone and topography hold back drainage water bearing Se and other trace elements originating from the sea through rainfall. In contrast, those counties with high death rates have more porous limestone and sandy quartzose bedrocks and soils low in clay with topography favorable to free leaching of groundwater to the sea under the high rainfall of Florida. Mean blood Se (n = 10) in Jacksonville, FL is 188 ng/ml which is intermediate among 22 urban centers of 22 states, ranging from 120 to 265 ng/ml. Other countries with 270 to 290 ng/ml of blood Se have about one-fifth the digestive system cancer rates. There is an urgent need for more blood Se and other trace element analyses for individuals in various localities in Florida, with a view to potential need for supplementation.
24321925|A citizen science project was developed to encourage homeowners and others to build and monitor artificial nesting habitats for solitary bees and wasps. Social media applications were used to recruit participants and provide forums for social discussion and participation. Between April 2012 and July 2014, 268 individuals and 19 groups registered for the Native Buzz project at www.ufnativebuzz.com for a total combined membership of 655 participants. Participants were located in 30 counties in Florida as well as 38 other states and 10 additional countries. Participants had designed, built and monitored 68 artificial nest sites by July 2014. During the two-year study period, the sites collectively contained over 10,657 potential nests constructed from a variety of materials and established within a variety of ecosystems. Comments solicited from participants were used to identify future needs, motivating factors and challenges associated with implementing an "insect-oriented" citizen science project. Results of this study indicate that technology-based citizen science projects of this type can effectively recruit non-scientist citizens to create artificial nesting habitats for solitary bees and wasps and provide a useful platform for helping entomological researchers collect solitary bee and wasp nesting data from a large geographic range via data provided by volunteer citizen scientists.
24321185|Fire intensity variation has the potential to affect vegetation dynamics in Florida ecosystems, but this has been little studied. In a south-central Florida pine flatwoods, we manipulated fuel loads before a prescribed fire. We then monitored maximum temperatures in the soil during the burn and characterized shrub stem dynamics before and periodically postfire for four years. Added fuel biomass exceeded the biomass of naturally occurring fuels, which varied significantly among sites. The addition of fuel significantly elevated maximum soil temperatures during the burn. All 12 shrub species found prefire persisted in our plots, and nine new shrub species appeared postfire but remained uncommon in our plots. Fuel additions did not affect the plot-level shrub species richness, overall shrub stem density, or species' stem densities. Richness initially decreased following the fire, then rapidly increased to prefire levels and remained fairly constant for four years. Overall shrub stem density increased from one to nine months after the fire, and subsequently stabilized. Quercus minima and Ximenia americana increased rapidly in stem numbers postfire and Helianthemum nashii showed a delayed increase. Other species such as the two palmettos (Serenoa repens and Sabal etonia) were fairly stable. Our results emphasize that only very intense fires should be expected to markedly alter the stability of postfire responses of pine flatwoods.
24320374|Water quality investigations were conducted to assess the treatment potential (concentration reduction) of a dual-component wet detention/filtration-berm stormwater management system, located in Kissimmee, Florida. Phosphorus concentrations are indicative of nonpoint source pollution in urban and commercial stormwater runoff. Therefore, orthophosphorus and total phosphorus concentrations were monitored at three different sampling stations within the system: 1) surface runoff influent channel; 2) wet detention basin standing pool; and 3) filtration-berm effluent collection box. Routine monthly data were collected to characterize prevalent ambient conditions. In addition, six distinct storm events were monitored with automatic samplers to characterize episodic phosphorus variations during the period November, 1985 to November, 1986. Statistical analyses (t-test) of routine monthly concentration data showed significant differences (p  0.05) between the stormwater influent and the wet detention basin standing pool samples for both orthophosphorus and total phosphorus. However, similar analyses between detention basin standing pool and filtration-berm effluent samples showed no significant differences. These results suggest positive treatment potential attained through wet detention, but significant additional treatment was not realized through berm filtration. Storm event results reinforced these conclusions, indicating wet detention treatment potential far superior to filtration-berm treatment potential. The average storm event treatment potential realized by wet detention during six events for orthophosphorus and total phosphorus was 77%. The average treatment potentials realized by filtration for orthophosphorus and total phosphorus were -91% and 16%, respectively. The average treatment potentials realized by the overall combined system for orthophosphorus and total phosphorus were 55% and 85%, respectively.
24319599|Ruellia caroliniensis is a common species in eastern United States; R. geminiflora is a widespread species in the Caribbean basin. Although the two species are very similar morphologically, they are completely allopatric. Artificial F1 hybrids were produced involving the two species, and the hybrids were vigorous, semi-fertile, and morphologically intermediate between the parental species. The genetic, evolutionary and taxonomic implications of this hybrid are discussed as it bears on the taxonomy of the genus.
24320137|Burmannia flava Mart. has been found for a third time in Southwestern Florida.
24312037|Feeding behaviors of juvenile cornetfish, Fistularia tabacaria and southern stargazer, Astroscopus y-graecum were observed in aquaria. Both species stalk their prey and usually attempt head-on strikes. Strikes were attempted from 10 above or below the horizontal by the cornetfish and within a 0-30 range above the horizontal by the southern stargazer.
24320518|A 90 by 10 m transect was established through Castellow Hammock in Dade County, Florida. All woody stems greater than 2 cm DBH were measured, identified and mapped. Average basal area, frequency and density data were compared with values from the same hammock obtained in 1940 and 1965. The data suggest some species are in decline, particularly Bursera simaruba, Coccoloba diversifolia, Lysiloma bahamensis, and Mastichodendron foetidissimum. Other species, most notably Exothea paniculata, Nectandra coriacea, Prunus myrtifolia and Simarouba glauca appear to have stable populations in the hammock.
24319722|Myrmekiaphila fluviatilus oviposited in late July and early August. Contraction began 4-5 da after oviposition. At day 10, the primitive cumulus migrated from the primitive plate to the edge of the germ disc. Gastrulation conformed closely with that of other ctenizids. Appendages became visible by day 12, but there was no development of a postabdomen, a condition unusual for a ctenizid. Hatching, which occurred 20-21 da following oviposition, was sometimes delayed while the spiderlings continued to develop within the chorion. This delay is noteworthy considering past attempts at categorizing spiders on developmental stages at hatching.
24319540|The population of the primitive platyasteroid starfish, Luidia clathrata (Say) in Tampa Bay differs from those found in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico in lacking regenerating arms, having a better nutritional condition as indicated by higher caecal indices, and having a greater reproductive capacity as indicated by higher gonadal indices. The lack of regenerating arms probably is a result of lower energy water in the bay; the better nutritional condition and reproductive capacity undoubtedly reflects the better food supplies in the bay. For open waters to have localities of equal suitability would require a water depth sufficient to reduce surface water energy and to increase the amount of appropriate infaunal food.
24321909|The round-tailed muskrat (Neofiber alleni) is a nocturnal rodent restricted to Florida and southeastern Georgia and is dependent on wetlands for survival. The status of Everglades round-tailed muskrat populations is unknown; however, they are known to occur at the Arthur R. Marshall Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge (LNWR). Walking transects and aerial surveys have been used to survey the species at other locations but are not feasible in LNWR. We conducted preliminary surveys by airboat and collected data on house location and habitat characteristics that can be used to develop specific protocols for addressing questions about round-tailed muskrat site occupancy and responses to environmental change. Methods developed in LNWR are applicable to other large wetland areas of the Everglades.
24320317|The abundance and distribution of A. hydrophila were measured in 25 lakes in the Central and North-Central Florida area. Verification of isolated A. hydrophila colonies was done using the Aeromonas hydrophila (AH) medium. Density of A. hydrophila ranged from 3-12,000 org/100 ml and appeared to increase as the trophic status of the lake changed from oligotrophic to eutrophic. However, no statistical correlation between trophic status and A. hydrophila density was attempted. Lake temperature and pH had no apparent effect on the recovery of A. hydrophila from Florida lakes.
24321405|Zamia pumila (Zamiaceae, Cycadales), a native cycad of Florida, is associated with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) in its non-coralloid (feeder) roots. Seedlings were grown in pots with native sandy soil, which had available phosphorus (P) equal to ca. 10 mg kg-1 soil (or soil solution P = 0.002 mg L-1). Treatments had additions of AMF or inorganic P in the form of KH2PO4. After 66 weeks, plants with either AMF alone or additional P (at 10 and 20 mg kg-1) had greater dry mass than controls but were not significantly different from each other (at P = 0.01). This study indicates that Zamia is not dependent on AMF for P acquisition at higher soil P levels, however, AMF promoted higher P accumulation in Zamia plants than non-mycorrhizal plants. Zamia also forms specialized coralloid roots that contain symbiotic N2-fixing Nostoc, a cyanobacterium. Dry mass of coralloid roots was enhanced by AMF. We suggest that a tripartite symbiotic relationship between AMF, Nostoc and Zamia is important in the low P ecosystem of South Florida and may be functionally similar to the AMF, rhizobium, and legume symbiosis.
24321049|The Predator Satiation Hypothesis posits that synchronous masting of fruits or nuts will maximize the probability of satiating local seed predators, allowing some seeds to escape predation and germinate. Although the hypothesis is usually applied at the population level to explain synchronous reproduction of many individuals, it also might apply at the individual level. In fact, if individual trees were able to satiate local predators, it would reduce selection for synchronous reproduction at the population level. We tested whether individual laurel oaks, Quercus hemisphaerica, could satiate their acorn predators. We simulated mast conditions by adding many acorns under the canopies of some trees, while adding few to other, non-mast trees. We then monitored the rate of acorn removal from both mast and non-mast trees. We predicted that non-mast trees would have a higher rate of acorn removal because they would not be able to satiate the major seed predator at our study site, the gray squirrel, Sciurus carolinensis. The results did not support our prediction; we found no difference in the removal rate of acorns from mast and non-mast trees. This may be attributable to two characteristics of our study site: the unusually high density of gray squirrels during the year of our study, and the size of Q. hemisphaerica trees at the site, which may have been too small to produce enough acorns to satiate such a large number of seed predators. We conclude that the Predator Satiation Hypothesis is most likely to find support at the level of a population, not at the level of individual trees. Predator satiation appears to be a population level phenomenon, with benefits to individual trees.
24319703|Fifty-five species of marine algae are newly reported from Puerto Rico. This number brings to about 360, the total algal flora known for Puerto Rico.
24319575|"Toxotoxin" produced in Yale Swiss mice by intraperitoneal infection with the Rh strain of Toxoplasma gondii was subjected to mild purification methods. These methods included: ammonium sulfate fractionation, Sephadex molecular sieve chromatography, and differential ultracentrifugation. A sequential procedure was used employing ammonium sulfate fractionated crude "Toxotoxin" (20-40%) which was centrifuged at 150,000  g for 90 min. The pelleted toxic fraction was chromatographed on Sephadex G 200. This three-step sequential procedure resulted in a toxic fraction which contained 6 of the original 14 components found in the crude toxin. Our data confirm the high molecular weight of "Toxotoxin." Evidence was obtained which indicates that "Toxotoxin" is composed of aggregate subunits.
24319591|The freshwater fish fauna is composed of 108 species in 34 families. Only 29% of the fauna belong to obligatory freshwater families. The Cyprino dontidae and Poeciliidae represent 19% of the native fauna. Eleven exotic species are established. The distribution and habitat of each species are described.
24320145|Study of long series of C. hysius hysius and C. hysius batesi from the north and south islands of Hispaniola demonstrates that the two taxa are more properly regarded as distinct species, C. hysius and C. batesi. The separation is reinforced by chromatic, morphological, and genitalic differences. A short series of large C. hysius-like specimens from the north island is named as a new species.
24322340|Plants of fire-prone environments lose an appreciable amount of their resources each time their above-ground organs are consumed by fire. In order to re-establish their stored reserves before the next fire episode, plants of fire-prone environments should quickly restore their leaf canopies. We measured leaf traits annually for up to 16 years for marked individuals of two palmettos: the widespread native Serenoa repens and narrow endemic Sabal etonia, growing in nutrient-poor, seasonally xeric, and fire-prone uplands associations of peninsular Florida. Both palmettos quickly recovered their canopies via rapid leaf production following fire. Because of their extended leaf life spans (2 to 3.5 years), canopies of burned palmettos contained elevated numbers of leaves during the period following fire, which should facilitate recovery of stored reserves.
24321379|From collections of specimens and field observations, we studied breeding, activity, and growth of the Cane Toad (Bufo marinus) from a site in Lake Placid in south-central Florida. Although fertility was continuous in both sexes, calling (FebruarySeptember 1993) and egglaying (apparently spring-summer) was seasonal. Both were in the range previously described for northern and southern populations in Florida. Activity was severely curtailed but not entirely absent during DecemberFebruary and most activity occurred at night. Typical of other Florida populations, adult males were smaller in body size than adult females, sexual maturity in both sexes was achieved at similarly small body sizes, and both sexes were sexually mature at about one year after metamorphosis. The physical structure of the habitat provided in effect an island suitable for B. marinus, surrounded by what was otherwise an ocean of uninhabitable sandy upland habitat. Thus, within the range of life history responses by B. marinus noted elsewhere in Florida, this population was afforded human-mediated conditions acceptable for colonization with responses in reproduction and activity more like those of other populations in extreme southern Florida than those in central Florida.
24320312|Turkey Creek, in Palm Bay, Brevard County, Florida, was the site of a manatee study from May 1978-1979 which investigated manatee distribution, abundance and use of the area. Manatees were present during most of the year; however, in winter a change in local distribution occurred which was apparently associated with a decrease in ambient temperatures. Boat inflicted scars, barnacle and algal growths and morphological markings like tail fluke notches and skin blemishes facilitated recognition of individual animals. Increased development and recreational use posed the most obvious threats to manatees in Turkey Creek.
24321466|Challenges associated with species identification, live collection and laboratory maintenance of billfish larvae have hindered research on their physiology and behavior. In the present study, short-duration neuston net tows in the Straits of Florida yielded 19 live istiophorid billfish larvae, which were immediately placed in a shipboard vertical swimming chamber to measure their vertical movement rates. After swimming trials, larvae were transferred to the laboratory where they were identified to species, classified as to flexion stage and measured for length. Mean vertical swimming speeds of captive larval sailfish (Istiophorus platypterus) and blue marlin (Makaira nigricans) ranged from 1.0 to 7.0 cm s-1 or 1.6 to 5.6 body lengths s-1. These rates exceed most larval fish sinking rates reported for other species and are comparable to mean larval "cruising" speeds reported for several temperate freshwater and marine fishes; however, they appear far lower than most swimming speed estimates for reef fish larvae.
24320971|Between 1936 and 1995, Florida's population grew from 1.7 million to 14.1 million residents. Over this period, forests declined 22%, herbaceous wetlands declined 51%, agricultural lands increased 60%, and urban lands increased 632%. However, since 1980, herbaceous wetlands have been increasing, and agricultural lands have been decreasing. In 1936, pine forests dominated forest lands, longleaf pine was the most abundant tree, 37% of forests were in sawtimber, and 14% of forest land was clearcut. By 1949, extensive logging of longleaf and old-growth pines left 51% of the state's forest land in a nonstocked condition, and sawtimber comprised only 17% of the forest. By 1995, longleaf pine forests had declined by 90%, slash pines were the most dominant tree, only 3% of forest lands were nonstocked, and pine plantations accounted for 32% of all forests. Based on observed trends, pond pine and scrub oak forests could become scarce on privately-owned commercial forest lands by 2010, longleaf pine forests could become rare on privately-owned commercial forest lands by 2019, and natural pine forests could disappear from all commercial forest lands by 2021.
24321086|The D-ribose high-affinity transport Operon (RbsDACBKR) of Escherichia coli encodes the proteins necessary for high-affinity transport and utilization of D-ribose. RbsD is a 15 IcDa protein with an amino terminus which resembles the proteolytically cleaved signal sequences of periplasmic and outer membrane proteins. N-terminal sequencing of the purified protein revealed that the protein does not contain a cleavable signal sequence and is therefore not likely to be an outer membrane receptor. Characterization of a Rbs operon mutant at the RbsD site reveals that D-ribose high-affinity transport does not require RbsD.
24321096|We studied bird habitat affinity and abundance in the Everglades Agricultural Area (EAA). The EAA is comprised of approximately 280,000 ha of lands dedicated primarily to sugarcane. Rice is grown on less than 10% of the area. We completed four years of study in rice fields and two years of surveys in sugarcane fields between 1998 and 2004. We observed 138 species with individuals being more abundant in rice fields. Twenty species were observed breeding in the area and 22 other species were potentially breeding. We saw all species of wading birds that occur regularly in south Florida, nearly all species of raptors and many bird species of open habitats. Waterbirds in general were the best represented group and these included three species of breeding ducks. Sugarcane fields and associated edge habitat supported a number of upland and other birds. Forest and woodland birds were poorly represented in the EAA due to the sparse distribution of trees. Because of its size and the nature of agriculture in the EAA, a large and diverse group of birds use this habitat for dispersal, migratory and breeding habitat.
24321440|In June 2005, a large fresh-water marsh in Cameron Parish, Louisiana was inventoried for aquatic vascular plant species. In September 2005, Hurricane Rita made landfall in Cameron Parish, Louisiana as a category 3 storm. Scouring and high salinity levels from the storm surge extirpated most of aquatic plants in the marsh. Subsequent to the passage of Rita, the marsh was periodically surveyed to determine the succession of aquatic plant species. Additionally, salinity data were collected at designated sites in the marsh. The return of aquatic plants to the marsh was protracted. Our data suggests that this slow rate of succession was due to a lengthy period of elevated salinity levels toxic to fresh-water plants. We speculate that this protracted period of elevated salinity was due to an ancient geologic shoreline barrier, called Little Chenier, which impedes the flushing of salt from of the marsh. In September 2009, the marsh was inundated by a storm surge from Hurricane Ike. Once again, most plants in the marsh were extirpated. Therefore, the succession period for this particular cycle spanned three years.
24321481|Dioecious and large-fruited trees have been hypothesized to be vulnerable to local extinction in successively smaller and more isolated forest fragments, however, few studies have examined patterns of sexual systems and fruit types in multiple tropical forest fragments. I examined sexual systems and fruit types in 17 fragments of tropical dry forest in South Florida along with tree density from belt transects (500 m2) in each fragment. Of the 65 native tropical dry forest trees identified in South Florida, hermaphroditic species were the most common sexual system with 38 species (58%) followed by 18 dioecious species (28%) and 9 monoecious species (14%). Zoochory was the predominant dispersal type with 59 species (91%) while the sub-category of large-fruited trees (fruit size  2 cm) accounted for 9 species (15%) and anemochory and autochory were relatively rare with 3 species (5%) each. Tropical dry forest fragments in South Florida have a remarkably similar proportion of sexual systems and fruit types even though species richness and floristic composition varied among fragments. There is little evidence that dioecious or large-fruited trees are vulnerable to local extinction in successively smaller and more isolated fragments in the tropical dry forest region of Florida or within mainland and island fragments.
24321533|Drymarchon couperi (Eastern Indigo Snake), a federally threatened species of the southeastern Coastal Plain, has presented challenges for surveyors, with few reliable methods developed for its detection or monitoring. Surveys for D. couperi at potential underground shelters conducted in late fall through early spring have been relatively successful when performed by experienced surveyors, especially in the northern portions of the range. However, trapping efforts for D. couperi conducted throughout the range have met with limited success. To further evaluate detection methods, we completed trapping and surveying from December 2002 to April 2004 in areas known to support D. couperi in southeastern Georgia. We captured 18 D. couperi through surveys of potential underground shelters from December 2002 to March 2003 (14 person-hours per capture) and six individuals through trapping (141 trap days or 27 in-field person-hours per capture). Trapping was most successful during early fall, a period when surveys are often less effective compared to those conducted in late fall through early spring. We recommend a combination of surveys from mid-fall through March in conjunction with trapping, especially from late-summer through fall in the northern portions of the snake's range. We also recommend further experimentation with alternative trap designs and survey methods for D. couperi.
24319866|A captive Florida mouse, Peromyscus floridanus, lived 7 years, 4 months, and 2 days. This individual was captured at an estimated age of 3 weeks. This is the longest life span reported for this species.
24320705|Elasmobranchs use a variety of adaptations to enhance buoyancy including reduced tissue density and large, lipid rich livers. We examined the hypothesis that free swimming rays (Aetobatus narinari, Rhinoptera bonasus) show larger hepato-somatic indices and lower body density than demersal species (Urolophus jamaicensis, Dasyatis americana, Himantura schmardae, Rhinobatus lentiginosus). Hepato-somatic indices were: U. jamaicensis (n = 16) 3.40  0.31 (Mean  SE); D. americana (18) 2.57  0.31; H. schmardae (2) 4.03  0.08; R. lentiginosus (1) 1.18; A. narinari (1) 4.18; R. bonasus (8) 5.31  0.26. Hepato-somatic indices for R. bonasus were significantly higher than U. jamaicensis or D. americana (P < 0.001). Water weight/air weight ratios for eviscerated animals were higher for U. jamaicensis (3.50  0.21) than R. bonasus (1.45  0.60) (P < 0.05). However, comparison of U. jamaicensis and R. bonasus indicate that their whole body water/air weight ratios are similar (U. jamaicensis 3.16  0.25; R. bonasus 3.63  0.60) (P > 0.05). Why higher hepato-somatic indices and lower body densities were not correlated with a lower total body density in R. bonasus than U. jamaicensis is not clear. However, our results do support the conclusion of others that body density is correlated with lifestyle in many elasmobranchs.
24321173|Using laser diffraction, we measured the aggregation of humic acid (HA) and the impact various chemical conditions (pH, ionic strength, lanthanides, transition metals, anions, etc.) have on the average size of HA and found that large aggregates persist over a range of conditions. Second, we examined the kinetics of aggregation and precipitation over forty days and found a critical size is reached before precipitation occurs.
24319632|Review of the widely scattered literature on the Fiji and immediately related islands provides basic ecological information and catalogs 306 species and varieties of mosses in 106 genera and 39 families. Citation of collection localities creates baseline data for future studies.
24321054|This inventory of the fishes of Everglades National Park summarizes the ichthyological and fisheries investigations that have provided information on the composition and distribution of the park's marine, brackish and freshwater fish faunas. Descriptions of the major aquatic habitats of the park provide a context for the subsequent complete inventory for the area. South Florida is a region in which members of the Antillean and Carolinian fish faunas meet and mix, giving rise to a diverse assemblage of fishes. Two hundred and ninety species of fishes have been recorded from the park, the majority of which occur both in North American and tropical West Atlantic waters. All of the native freshwater fishes in the park are derived from temperate North America; conversely, the seven established non-indigenous fish species originated in tropical waters. The table of species includes abundance and habitat use information. Species that are of hypothetical or questionable occurrence are also noted.
24321428|Non-native plants at Archbold Biological Station were mapped using GPS and their invasiveness was evaluated using the Alien Plant Ranking Software program. Twenty of sixty-five non-native plants scored greater than 75 points and were classified as invasive. Forty five percent (n = 9) of these plants are listed as Category I plants (highly invasive) by the Florida Exotic Pest Plant Council (FLEPPC), while twenty percent (n = 4) are listed as Category II plants (potentially highly invasive). Thirty-five percent (n = 7) of the plants are not listed as invasive by the FLEPPC. The ten highest-ranking plants were torpedograss (Panicum repens), cogongrass (Imperata cylindrica), Old World climbing fern (Lygodium microphyllum), lantana (Lantana camara), rose natalgrass (Rhynchelytrum repens), rosary pea (Abrus precatorius), Brazilian pepper (Schinus terebinthifolius), air-potato (Dioscorea bulbifera), paragrass (Urochloa mutica), and smutgrass (Sporobolus indicus). The majority of non-native plant locations were associated with highly disturbed sites, but some species such as Old World climbing fern, torpedograss, cogongrass, lantana, natalgrass, rosary pea, flamevine (Pyrostegia venusta), and Madagascar periwinkle (Catharanthus roseus) exhibited signs of invading undisturbed habitat. Soil disturbance was the primary factor associated with the majority of the locations documented for non-native plants. Prescribed fire does not appear to promote the invasion of non-native plants into natural communities unless there has previously been some type of soil disturbance.
24320727|The sea urchin Lytechinus variegatus Lamarck is a common inhabitant of the seagrass meadows of South Florida and the Caribbean. Two sites along the northern coast of Key Biscayne were chosen. Four field collections (December 1989, June 1990, July 1991, and December 1992) were completed from a meadow near the Crandon Marina, and three field collections were completed from a meadow in the Bear Cut Channel (June 1990, July 1991, and October 1992). These revealed significant differences in mean urchin densities (roughly 1 urchin/m2 in Crandon vs. roughly 0.3 urchin/m2 in Bear Cut). Roughly 65% of the Crandon site area was covered by Thalassia testudinum (turtle grass) alone, and roughly 25% of the area was covered by a mixture of T. testudinum and Halodule wrightii (shoal grass). Roughly 5% of the site was covered by H. wrightii alone, and roughly 5% of the site lacked seagrass. Roughly 75% of the Bear Cut site area was covered with a mixture of T. testudinum and Syringodium filiformes (manatee grass); roughly 15% was covered with a mixture of all three seagrasses. Fewer than half of the urchins at either site were feeding at the moment of capture; of those feeding, most were eating decayed pieces of T. testudinum. Urchins at both sites tended toward random dispersions within the meadows. The 1992 collections were made after Hurricane Andrew; remarkably little change was found in urchin and seagrass populations despite the fact that the sites took a nearly direct-hit from the storm. (Funded partially by NIGMSMARC Grant, Barry University).
24321080|Two large mosquito impoundments in the northern Indian River Lagoon, Florida were monitored before and after reconnection to the estuary with culverts and installation of pumps. Studies on hydrography, fish and wood stork (Mycteria americana) utilization were completed. After reconnection, the cells were managed differently, with management in one cell designed to enhance fish populations and attract wood storks. Following culvert and pump installation, salinities were significantly higher in both cells, and replication of estuary water levels was achieved during culvert "open" periods. Ten species of fish were collected prior to culvert reconnection and 12 after reconnection. There was no difference between total number or density of fishes before or after reconnection, and total number and density of fishes was greater in the modified RIM cell than in the RIM cell during one year only. Wood storks were not attracted by the winter-spring pump-up. This study demonstrates that even very large mosquito impoundments located far from tidal influences can be managed for multiple purposes with the installation of sufficient culverts and/or pumps, but the "target" species for management may not respond over short time scales.
24319533|Laurencia brongniartii J. Ag. is newly reported for Florida and for only the second time from the West Indian region. The type specimen came from Martinique hut all other records have been from the Indo-Pacific until this discovery of drift material on the southeast coast of Florida. It is apparently a deep water alga whose Florida habitat is uncertain, but probably from a reef between the ocean beach and the edge of the continental shelf off the southeast coast of Florida.
24319815|Compass orientation, vertical distribution and numerical distribution upon host species were determined for Tillandsia flexuosa Swartz and T. pruinosa Swartz. T. flexuosa was more abundant on E- and W-facing sides of its hosts. T. pruinosa was found more frequently in the E-facing microhabitat. Both species were found in the subcanopy. The most striking difference between the 2 species, with respect to spatial distribution, is their numerical distribution upon hosts.
24319721|Field and herbarium studies of the parasitic plants of the genus Cuscuta have been made in Florida. Keys, taxonomy and illustrations are given for 9 species.
24319494|Of the more than 1.2 million living animal species, only about 100,000, or 8%, are likely to be preserved as fossils.
24319471|Trapping of mosquitoes during the May-October breeding season revealed that flight patterns of mosquitoes had strong correlation with RH 90 percent or more during evening twilight. In Florida the likelihood of high nighttime RH varies seasonally and geographically, but these differences are obscured when only mean RH values are considered. Humidity may be more important than temperature as a flight factor in tropical and subtropical areas, and could cause geographic differences in the flight behavior of the same insect.
24312035|The digenetic trematode, Ochetosoma kansense (Crow, 1913), is reported from a West Indian racer, Alsophis vudii Cope, from South Bimini Island, Bahamas; apparently the second record for the parasite family from the West Indies. The snail, Physa cubense, and the frog, Osteopilus septentrionalis, may serve as intermediate hosts on South Bimini.
24321162|The purpose of this study was to assess the effects of ovarian hormones and environmental complexity on performance by females of the marsupial, Monodelphis domestica in an 8-arm radial maze. Subjects were ovariectomized (OV) or sham ovariectomized (SH) and housed either in complex (EC) or impoverished (IC) environments. Ten days after surgery, spatial working memory performance in the radial maze was assessed over a 20-day training period. Both SH and OV subjects exposed to EC conditions exhibited significantly higher mean number of correct arm choices in the first 8 visits as compared to IC subjects. Under EC conditions SH and OV subjects also achieved a higher mean number of correct choices before making an error. Food deprivation caused a disruption of the estrous cycle (a lengthening of 6-8 days); these disruptions occurred by the seventh day of maze training. During initial learning trials (before disruption of estrous), intact females exhibited a higher mean number of correct arm choices during the first 8 visits than did females from the OV group. Results indicated that although ovarian hormones and environmental complexity act independently and interactively to affect performance, environmental conditions exert a more pronounced influence on spatial learning than hormonal conditions. This is the first demonstration of these effects for a marsupial.
24320083|A life history consists of maintenance, growth and reproductive activities. Presumably, these activities have conflicting requirements for limited resources of time, energy and specific nutrients. It is proposed that the amount of a resource required by an individual of a given species for any particular event probably fluctuates only within well prescribed limits. Therefore, if sufficient resource is available over a given period of time to allow for the successful completion of two or more resource costly events, then evolutionarily, the species has determined a temporal pattern for partitioning that resource among those events. The temporal pattern of allocation displayed should encompass the strategy optimal for the organism in its environment. This proposal is applied to temporal patterns of resource allocation to the molt and breeding portions of the avian life cycle. When large numbers of avian species from several geographic regions are considered, several highly adaptive patterns emerge.
24320697|Local govemments constructed a model tidal creek community by restoring heavily impacted waterfront property on a Sarasota Bay fill island. The restoration created salt marshes, ponds, upland areas and beaches upon which extensive plantings of native plants completed the desired community. Quantitative quarterly monitoring of vegetation changes in three compartments (herbaceous vegetation, shrubs and trees) along permanent transects is being used to evaluate the success of the restoration project. Results from the first year of monitoring will be examined and emerging distributional trends in the herbaceous compartment discussed.
24320596|Two species of South American sailfin catfishes are established in Florida. Liposarcus multiradiatus is established in several canals and lakes in Dade and Palm Beach counties. Liposarcus disjunctivus is established in Hillsborough County in Hillsborough River and in Lake Thonotosassa. Both species are common in the tropical fish trade and almost certainly escaped from fish farms or were released by aquarists.
24319770|The status of anthropology at 2-yr institutions appears ambiguous. At a time when many doctorates in the discipline are prepared to teach in a junior college, those in the curriculum-decision-making process at the 2-yr schools deal with anthropology usually with mixed feelings as to its viability as a social science offering. I examine these trends and attempt to define some of the problems and prospects involved in the teaching of anthropology at the 2-yr college. What can be accomplished is illustrated by the anthropology program at Broward Community College, Central Campus, which serves as a case study for this paper.
24320565|Removal of fruits from persimmon (Diospyros virginiana), presumably by Virginia opossums (Didelphis virginiana) and raccoons (Procyon lotor), was monitored for six weeks in 1992. Trees which were distant (>3 m) from other individuals of the same species exhibited no associations among the number originally present and percent removed. By contrast, for trees less than 3 m apart, there was a significant negative correlation between percent removed and distance to nearest persimmon. It is suggested that fruit removal by mammals differs in several respects from that by birds.
24320119|A one-year study was conducted in which seagrass communities in Tampa Bay, the Indian River Lagoon, and the Little Bahama Bank were monitored quarterly for primary production, standing stock biomass, and nutrient concentrations. Primary production rates were measured in situ for the following four community autotrophic components: seagrasses, their associated epiphytic flora, phytoplankton and microbenthic algae. Photosynthetic rates were compared both within and between locations to determine the relative significance of the primary producers, and the contribution by each to areal, i.e., community production (mg C m-3h-1). In general, all species of seagrasses, their associated epiphytic flora and microbenthic algae produced at similar rates at all locations. The Indian River Lagoon had phytoplankton primary production rates that were greater than both seagrass and microbenthic algal production rates. Phytoplankton in Tampa Bay had primary production rates greater than all other community photosynthetic components, and primary production rates by all photosynthetic components in the nutrient-deplete Bahama Banks were similar. Therefore, the majority of the community primary production, i.e., the production base, in Tampa Bay and the Indian River Lagoon is contributed by phytoplankton. These areas are characterized by anthropogenic perturbations and associated high nutrient concentrations. Historical data indicate that phytoplankton, turtle grass and microbenthic algae were, at one time, equally productive in Tampa Bay. Increased phytoplankton production has reduced the relative importance of seagrasses and microbenthic algae to community production in this area. It is suggested that the relative contributions by the components of the photosynthetic community are affected by nutrient availability. Nutrient enrichment may induce a shift in the production base from benthic plants to phytoplankton. A shift of this type may be interpreted as an ecological indicator of either eutrophication or environmental stress in a coastal marine environment.
24321381|This research paper completes a systematic classification of subatomic particles (and anti-particles) by the way in which their masses, charges, and stabilities occur. The conventionally elementary particles are numerically divided in several new classes. Thus, a new, simple basis is given for a more complete eventual substantiation of how the masses and charges of all the massive sub-atomic particles of observable matter in their exotic proliferations, from the cosmic microneutrinos to the multiquark hadrons, occur as a single, continuously linked and systematically regular structure of quantized composite mass with conserved charge. What the more fundamental nature of the two enumerated microquanta building blocks can be and why they work together in a way that enables this structuring of the known massive particles and their varying mass and charge combinations also remains to be addressed. Zonal relations within this classification define a more significant grouping of the LQ particles than by the conventional three "generations."
24320700|The amounts of copper sulfate pentahydrate used as an aquatic herbicide and algicide in the Hillsborough River Reservoir, and the extended time of use may have a negative impact on the ecology of the area. In addition, the present means of algal control may not be the most effective in terms of ecology or economy. The river is sampled from the reservoir entrance near Temple Terrace to Lowry Park, including the treated area. Several parameters are considered, with primary interest focused on the disposition of the copper, which appears to precipitate near the point of application and accumulate in the sediment. The Hillsborough River is also compared to an extensive, 58-year study done on the Fairmont Lakes in southern Minnesota.
24320217|Current methods used to manage plant diseases in commercial tomato fields in Florida and their effectiveness in grower practice are compared. Host plant resistance, fertility management, the use of plastic mulch and staking of plants are bioenvironmental methods that have made significant contributions to management of specific tomato diseases.
24321024|Water level data from a 199798 field study conducted in the coastal bays at the southeast tip of the Florida peninsula are combined with water level records from earlier field studies to characterize semidiurnal and diurnal period tidal constituents in Biscayne Bay, Card Sound, Little Card Sound, Barnes Sound and Manatee Bay. Results indicate uniform amplitudes and rapid filling and draining through much of the northern part of the study area. Semidiurnal M2 constituent amplitudes are approximately 30 cm; N2 and S2 constituent amplitudes are approximately 8 and 5 cm, respectively. The diurnal K1 and O1 constituents have amplitudes of about 3 cm. In the southern part of the study area, a series of shallow banks reduces the amplitudes of all tidal constituents. In Barnes Sound and Manatee Bay, M2 amplitudes are about 5 cm, while all other constituents have amplitudes on the order of 1 cm. Calculations of bay volume relative to mean sea level indicate that 85% of all flood tides and 87% of all ebb tides transport from 200 to 350  106 m3 of water into or out of the Biscayne Bay System. The M2, S2, N2, K1 and O1 tidal constituents have amplitudes of 134.0, 19.3, 26.2, 17.2 and 13.6  106 m3, respectively. Under neap and spring tide conditions, flood and ebb intertidal volumes can be as little as 164  106 or as much as 394  106 m3. Acoustic Doppler profiler data from two locations in central and southern Biscayne Bay indicate a south-south-westward tide-induced residual transport from Biscayne Bay into Card Sound.
24320115|A review was made of various features of the Apalachicola Bay System. Unique physical, chemical, and biological features of this system combine to make it one of the most productive estuarine areas in the State of Florida. Primary productivity and secondary productivity are discussed in relation to various forcing functions (natural and man-induced). Problems associated with development include dredging, sewage effluents, pesticides and a number of up-river activities such as industrialization, cattle ranching, channelization, and damming. The Apalachicola Drainage System is viewed as one of the largest relatively unpolluted areas in the country. However, it is a neglected resource with little management or control; as such it is presently endangered by a number of activities. It is suggested that critical information necessary for the management and protection of this system be obtained, and that the impact of watershed alterations be viewed on a regional basis with coordinated participation of the involved states (Florida, Georgia, and Alabama).
24321567|Old World Climbing Fern (Lygodium microphyllum) is a non-native invasive fern that is established within South Florida and poses a significant threat to native habitats. We examined spore germination of L. microphyllum spores in three natural substrates; soil, leaf litter, and water. Germination rates on day 28 ranged from 0 to 99% across all substrate treatments. Germination on soil ranged from 84 to 97% (median 93%; mean  SD 92  4) and in water ranged from 52% to 99% (median of 85%, mean  SD of 79 %  16). Germination on leaf litter was highly variable (overall range 0 to 98%), possibly due to the predominance of wax myrtle (Myrica cerifera) leaves in the leaf litter and its associated allelopathic qualities. These results confirm that L. microphyllum spores have high germination potential on a variety of substrates. We have seen the implications of this invasive life history characteristic in the actual and predicted spread of this species. This information highlights the importance of finding and implementing control strategies that stop the plants from producing spores or limit/eliminate spore germination. Without such mechanisms encroachment of L. microphyllum will continue to pose a formidable challenge to restoration of the Everglades.
24321673|Impounded marshes under different reconnection plans (open vs. RIM) were examined at the culverts and within the interior perimeter ditch to determine if the flow regime influenced the availability of zooplankton. Management plans had no effect on zooplankton abundance, but a significant effect was found with the location within the perimeter ditch, with culverts having a higher overall abundance compared to interior points. The six most abundant taxa, in declining order of abundance, were juvenile flatworms, copepods, nauplii, rotifers, gastropod veligers, and nematodes. Specifically, juvenile flatworms, copepods, nauplii, and nematodes were more abundant at culverts. Dye diffusion studies revealed that areas with the lowest flow rates always had the highest species diversity and 'Evenness' was always higher in the interior of perimeter ditches. Impoundments appear to have the highest zooplankton densities recorded in the literature for any habitat. Canonical Correspondence Analysis of environmental data suggests that different water masses (coastal vs. estuarine) may distinguish the impoundments and drive species differences, while flow into an impoundment is correlated with zooplankton diversity and abundance. We hypothesize that zooplankton may accumulate within the impoundment ditches via migration behaviors (e.g., "selective tidal stream transport").
24320207|Two studies, 28 da each, were conducted to establish whether coquina shells could be used in laying hen diets as a source of calcium for egg shell formation. The coquina shell used in these studies analyzed 39% calcium and was from a 17 million-year-old natural deposit of shell located in a 0.9-1.5 m deep porous bed in St. Johns County, Florida. One-hundred and eighty individually-caged, 50 wk old White Leghorn hens (60 per treatment) were fed a typical commercial type layer diet containing approximately 3.4% calcium, 0.55% total phosphorus and 15.5 % crude protein. Coquina shells replaced ground limestone in the experimental diets on a 0%, 50%, and 100% basis. In both studies no significant differences were observed in egg production, egg weight, shell weight, and specific gravity when the coquina supplemented diets were compared to the control. The amount of feed required to produce a dozen eggs was similar for all treatment groups. Coquina shells can be used as a supplemental source of calcium in layer diets.
24320068|II. Boca Raton Hammock on the barrier island was originally bordered on the west with a freshwater sawgrass marsh which became overgrown by mangroves following drainage. The tropical hammock has remained since the mid-1800's. Strand vegetation dominated by saw palmetto has persisted for at least a century. III. Yamato Scrub has undergone few successional changes for the past century despite its near extirpation because of agriculture and subsequent urbanization. Even undeveloped sites show evidence of substantial disturbance. IV. Butts Hammock is an inland hammock with 73% tropical species present. After the region was drained in 1921 farming and urbanization eliminated many surrounding communities but most of the hammock itself seems to have remained. V. Boca Raton Inlet has undergone several changes in physiography and vegetation in the past with three major changes within the past 100 yr. Increased salinity has resulted in spread of mangroves and disturbance has resulted in establishment of exotic plants. Dredging, draining and jetty installations have further modified natural habitats. The four areas studied from early survey records, 1940 aerial photographs and recent aerial photography and site visits document significant vegetational shifts correlated with some natural phenomena as well as the much greater change associated with human impact.
24320054|Twenty-four postlarval and juvenile specimens of Hoplias malabaricus were collected in the Little Manatee River drainage, Hillsborough County, Florida. This collection confirms that H. malabaricus has become established in Florida.
24320740|Tolerance to low oxygen is one factor that may limit the colonization of some freshwater habitats by non-native fishes. This study examined the low oxygen tolerance of the Jack Dempsey, Cichlasoma octofasciatum, an introduced cichlid recorded from many sites in Florida. A suite of parameters that may influence tolerance to low oxygen conditions were measured including: metabolic rate, critical oxygen tension, respiratory behavior, and total gill filament length. Several lines of evidence suggest that C. octofasciatum has a relatively high tolerance to low oxygen conditions which may facilitate exploitation of hypoxic waters. In response to progressive hypoxia, C. octofasciatum uses aquatic surface respiration (ASR); however, this behavior was only initiated when oxygen levels were extremely low (<5 mm Hg), suggesting that other well-developed physiological mechanisms compensate for hypoxia above this level. These include a low metabolic rate, a large total gill filament length, and a low critical oxygen tension which averaged 14.9 mm Hg.
24321020|Lygodium microphyllum is a fern native to Asia that has been introduced into south Florida and poses a potential threat to native communities. Fern ladders grow over vegetation and appear to blanket and change the existing vegetation structure and composition. This study examined vegetation species richness and percent cover in ground cover, shrub layer, and overstory in one 4  5 m plot on each of 10 tree islands in the Arthur R. Marshall Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge. Five of the islands had dense infestations of L. microphyllum and five had very low or no infestation. Species richness was similar between infested islands and uninfested islands; however, percent cover of native species was higher in uninfested plots than in infested plots in the overstory (64% compared to 3%), shrub (33% compared to 4%), and ground cover (66% compared to 9%). This study illustrates the impact that L. microphyllum can have on native tree island communities in south Florida.
24319431|Recent captures of Notropis cummingsae, Notropis welaka, Ictalurus brunneus, and Etheostoma olmstedi from waters of the Sf. Johns River drainage are reported, and the disjunct distributions of these species in Florida are discussed. Freshwater distribution of Lucania parva in the St. Johns River system is summarized, with a new locality included. Establishment of two exotic fish species. Xiphophorus variatus and Sarotherodon aureus ( = Tilapia aurea), in Gainesville is documented. Known range of Enneacanthus chaetodon is extended to Pasco county.
24322276|A simple empirical model, requiring only easily-available data was developed to estimate weekly composites of wet chloride atmospheric deposition in a near-coastal setting. The scavenging of atmospheric chloride by rainfall was conceptualized as intense during the initial part of a rainfall event, but decreasing in intensity as the event progresses and the atmosphere becomes progressively depleted in chloride. This conceptualization was quantified with a parameterized relation between an index of removal efficiency of atmospheric chloride and the cumulative rainfall within a storm event. Distinctive source areas of chloride (land and sea) were incorporated in this method by using individual removal efficiency index functions for each of the source areas. In addition, the role of seaward winds and distance from measurement point to marine sources of chloride was considered. The method was applied to data collected July 1997September 1998 at a site about 20 kilometers inland near Daytona Beach, Florida. Data included hourly precipitation (all as rainfall) totals, chloride concentrations of weekly rainfall composites, and hourly values of wind speed and direction. The atmospheric scavenging model explained about 69% of the variation in measured weekly atmospheric deposition. Model results indicated that more than 90% of rainfall-deposited chloride is derived from the Atlantic Ocean.
24319561|The behavior of sunspots follows patterns of shape, motion, growth and decay which differ for leader and follower spots; some empirical rules are deduced and reported.
24321035|Rhodomyrtus tomentosa (downy rose myrtle) is a shrub native to southeast Asia that invades pine flatwoods of central and southern Florida, where it can form a dense, nearly monodominant understory. We studied the phenology, shoot extension and carbohydrate allocation of this little-studied invader at the University of Florida and in Jonathan Dickinson State Park (JDSP) in 19982000. R. tomentosa flowered April through June and produced fruits August through September. Shoot extension was greatest in September and lowest January through May. Tissue concentration of carbohydrate reserves in roots was relatively high (up to 300 mg/g) and did not change substantially with season, except for a June peak in total nonstructural carbohydrate (TNC) concentration in lateral roots. Lateral roots had a significantly higher concentration of TNC than root crowns (lignotubers) throughout the year. Only TNC of lateral roots showed a positive correlation with plant size. The consistently high TNC concentration in roots of R. tomentosa indicates its high resprouting potential throughout the year. Based on these results, we recommend that shoot removal by cutting, burning or herbicide is optimally done in early August before fruits ripen and become dispersed. Shoot removal then would result in rapid shoot regrowth and depletion of root TNC, because AugustOctober is the main season for shoot extension. Repeated shoot killing 612 months later will maximize the chance of killing plants completely.
24321724|The Brown Hoplo (Hoplosternum littorale), a catfish native to South America, was discovered in Florida in 1995, and it is now widely distributed and abundant throughout much of the State. Approximately 100 Brown Hoplo were collected, measured and weighed for 12 consecutive months, after which subsamples were analyzed for stomach contents, sex, gonadal somatic index (GSI), and fecundity estimates. Crustaceans (primarily cladocerans and amphipods), aquatic insects (mainly chironomid species), detritus, and decaying plant matter were the most common items in the stomachs of >400 Brown Hoplo. Monthly mean GSIs were greater than the annual mean from April through October 2003 indicating this species has a protracted spawning season. Fecundity estimates for 110 ripe females averaged 9,977 eggs. A lower lethal temperature of 10 C was identified indicating this species will be geographically limited to the area south of Gainesville. Several native predators eat Brown Hoplo and preliminary indications suggest it could be a seasonally important prey item for some (e.g., Largemouth BassMicropterus salmoides, and Common SnookCentropomus undecimalis). Although the Brown Hoplo has become one of Florida's more successful exotic fishes in terms of increasing their geographic range and abundance, there is no evidence indicating it has had deleterious effects on native fishes.
24320509|A need arose to know with greater certainty the constituents of a commercial product for absorption of liquid mercury spills in view of public inquires for recommendations on such materials and in connection with spill control recommendations being given as part of safety workshops for teachers. We give here our approach to the analysis problem which this material presented and the results of our studies. The usefulness of qualitative chemical tests and the choice of specific spectroscopic techniques such as infrared, x-ray diffraction and x-ray fluorescence for arriving at the identities of at least three components of the mixture as lead metal, zinc metal and sulfamic acid are described. Techniques for quantitative analysis of the identified components in the heterogeneous mixture were developed and gave values of: Pb = 82  3%, Zn = 10  2% and HOSO2(NH2) = 7.1  0.2%. While it was found that the Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) provided by the manufacturer of the product did not include the identities of all constituents, particularly the sulfamic acid which is a strong, corrosive acid, safety precautions they recommended for applying the product seemed adequate. A long-term reactivity of the metal components with the solid acid in the mixture was observed with our samples, but a precise identification of the products could not be made.
24319656|A key to the genera of the plant family Convolvulaceae is presented in preparation for a modern analysis of the species in Florida.
24320685|Two chelating agents, chromotropic acid and dithiooxamide, were loaded onto Amberlite IR-45 anion exchange resin, and Amberlite IR-120 cation exchange resin, respectively. The two agents were used to extract heavy metal ions (cadmium, copper, and lead) from aqueous solutions (deionized, tap, and artificial seawater). Chromotropic acid was used for removal of lithophilic metals that favor coordination to oxygen donors, whereas dithiooxamide was used for removal of chalcogenides, those metals that favor coordination to sulfur. The effectiveness of removal was measured as percent removal and as the calculated partition coefficient. Their efficiencies varied with initial pH of the medium. All metals were analyzed by atomic absorption spectrometry.
24319934|The largest living species of deposit-feeding animal has a weight of about 5 kg. The truly large animals such as whales, squids, elephants, and man are either suspension feeders, carnivores, herbivores, or omnivores. Extinct species of deposit feeders were probably small to medium-sized animals.
24320677|We tested the effects of light levels, ground disturbance and litter layers on the seedling emergence of Chrysopsis floridana Small (Asteraceae), a federally endangered perennial herb endemic to the scrub communities of west-central Florida. The complete factorial experiment included 4 replicates and 48,000 seeds. Seedling emergence was favored by disturbed soil, by the absence of a litter layer and by their combination. Seedling survival was not affected by any treatments. Fire did not affect seed germination or seedling survival, but did increase flowering. Two natural populations of C. floridana declined from 199092, with considerable turnover from both mortality and recruitment. Increasing mortality and variable recruitment during this study may be due to lack of fire and continued canopy closure within the sand pine scrub habitat. We recommend a prescribed burning program which mimics the natural fire regime of the scrub and surrounding habitats, which will provide suitable microsites for seed germination and seedling establishment.
24320230|All recorded sites and potential habitat of G. p. goffi were surveyed and the history of its distribution was reviewed. The former range of the taxon is now a city, and no gopher mounds were found there or in surrounding habitat.
24319777|Recent archaeological research has indicated that certain areas of Florida which traditionally have been designated as "hinterland" may in fact be "heartland". Cooperation between local amateur archaeologist and professional archaeologists has enabled us to record sites previously unknown or unrecorded. Knowledge of these sites will require a rvaluation of Hardee County's role in Florida prehistory.
24320716|Dissolved oxygen (DO), temperature (T) and salinity (S) were measured continuously in two Tampa Bay seagrass meadows from late August through October, 1992. Grassbeds were (1) offshore Beacon Key, south of Cockroach Bay and (2) in Boca Ciega Bay between Maximo and Bunces Passes. Temperature patterns were very similar between sites, while salinity was 2-5 parts per thousand lower at Beacon Key. Daily DO at Beacon Key ranged from a mean low of 4.38  1.71 mg/l to a mean high of 9.23  1.73 mg/l. Daily DO in Boca Ciega Bay ranged from a mean low of 5.32  0.86 mg/l to a mean high of 8.69  1.17 mg/l. Mean daily DO fluctuations were greater at Beacon Key. The only hypoxic event (DO < 2 mg/l) occurred for six hours at Beacon Key on September 9. Laboratory studies showed that adult bay scallops were able to survive prolonged exposure to low dissolved oxygen (2-4 mg/l for 8-24 hours) at several temperature:salinity combinations. It appears that dissolved oxygen is not the primary factor responsible for the decline of adult bay scallops from grassbeds in lower Tampa Bay. Funding was provided by the Tampa Bay National Estuary Program (TBNEP).
24321126|Habitat management, monitoring, and restoration efforts can benefit from regional information on plant community composition and structure from representative native habitats. We developed plant species lists and calculated percent cover and frequency averaged over multiple sampling events for forbs, graminoids, and shrubby vegetation in fire-managed slash pine (Pinus elliottii var. densa) and wet prairie habitats in southwest Florida. Slash pine habitats included 185 species of forbs, 74 species of graminoids, and 34 species of shrubs. Mean percent cover in slash pine habitat was dominated by shrubs (67%), followed by forbs (47%) and graminoids (28%). Species richness in wet prairie habitats included 135 species of forbs, 64 species of graminoids, and 18 species of shrubs. Mean percent cover in wet prairie habitat was dominated by graminoids (81%), followed by forbs (41%) and shrubs (9%).
24321736|The study tested the effects of controlled variables on decomposition of buried bodies in Florida. Twenty-four domestic pig (Sus scrofa, Linnaeus) cadavers used as a proxy for human bodies were buried in single graves to control for body size (child-sized and adult-sized), burial depth (shallow and deep), burial duration (short and long), and soil type (sand and clay). Overall, burial depth and burial duration were the two most important factors affecting the rate of decomposition. Decomposition rates slowed as bodies were buried at deeper depths. Also, body size and soil type contributed to the rate of decomposition. Decomposition rates increased with smaller-sized cadavers, and cadavers buried in clay decomposed more slowly than cadavers buried in sand. Therefore, when assessing decomposition rates of buried bodies to provide an assessment of the postmortem interval (PMI), multiple variables should be considered and PMI should not be based solely on the gross decomposition state of buried bodies. As a result, it is important to conduct decomposition research in various geographical regions and environments to gain a better understanding of the multitude of variables affecting decomposition of buried bodies.
24319659|Field studies of Nemastylis floridana, commonly known as Celestial Lily, a rare endemic of the moist flatwoods of east-central Florida, were conducted to determine its breeding system, pollen vectors, phenology and germinative capacity. The chief pollinators were Augochlorella striata and Evylaeus foxii (Halictidae). The flowers were found to be self-compatible. Self-pollination occurred without an outside vector, although this resulted in lower seed set. The pollen-ovule ratio was 690 and the outcrossing index was 3. This agreed well with Cruden's data for facultative xenogamous species. All seeds obtained from experimental plants germinated and grew readily when planted in pots and kept moist. The scarcity of Nemastylis floridana is probably due to environmental causes rather than to reproductive ones.
24321434|A Pearson correlation analysis was conducted on a database containing eight limnological variables of 34 lakes located in northwestern Hillsborough County. Lake water concentrations of total phosphorus (TP), total nitrogen (TN), and chlorophyll-; submerged aquatic vegetation (SAV) as measured by percentage of area covered with vegetation (PAC) and percentage of volume infested with vegetation (PVI); and mean depth, lake surface area, and lake volume were examined. The purpose of this study was to examine the theory by Bachmann and co-workers (2002) that SAV may reduce nutrients in the water column. The stronger statistically significant inverse correlations were found between chlorophyll- and SAV as represented by PVI and PAC (r = -0.45 and -0.41, respectively), and between lake water TP and PAC and PVI (r = -0.49 and -0.35, respectively). Weaker but also significant were the inverse correlations found between TP and mean depth (r = -0.33) as well as that between TN and PAC (r = -0.31). Statistically significant direct correlations were found between chlorophyll- and TN and TP (r = 0.38 and 0.32, respectively), and weaker but still significant, between mean depth and PVI and PAC (r = 0.31 and 0.30, respectively). In conclusion the examined theory is supported.
24320078|Explorations in Ellis Cave, Jackson Co., Florida revealed 2 species of cave dwelling fishes: the pirate perch, Aphredoderus sayanus and the redeye chub, Hybopsis harperi. Their presence in the cave is probably facultative and transitory.
24321083|The sea urchin Lytechinus variegatus was introduced to a Thalassia testudinum bed in Biscayne Bay, Florida. Experimentally increased densities of urchins had no effect on seagrass biomass or shoot density. Seasonal effects on seagrass biomass and shoot density were highly significant, with higher values for both parameters in the fall. Total epifaunal gastropod abundances were significantly affected by urchin density, decreasing to almost zero in the high urchin density treatment. These results suggest that competition was occurring between the urchins and gastropods.
24320375|The percent survival of Florida Bay white mullet, striped mullet, spotted seatrout, and gray snapper marked with internally anchored spaghetti tags was 22, 67, 75, and 100, respectively. Unmarked fish of the same species had survival percentages of 27, 77, 75, and 100, respectively. The differences between the tagged and untagged fish were not significant. Transporting the fish up to 16 km from the point of capture did not significantly decrease survival in tagged or untagged fish either.
24320984|Aerial deposition of egg clutches by the aquatic Florida applesnail is believed to have evolved in response to aquatic egg predators. Adaptation to aerial conditions might, however, have rendered embryos intolerant of submergence, a potential occurrence in natural and managed marshes, rivers, and lakes. In this study, eggs were submerged in water for various durations in the laboratory to assess their ability to survive flooding; and clutches of known ages were submerged for several days in the field to determine if aquatic predators might decrease survival below levels expected to occur due to flooding alone. Submergence of clutches slowed embryonic development and increased mortality. Embryos that were within a few days of hatching at the time of submergence were not strongly affected. When younger embryos were submerged, none hatched; and most died in early stages of growth. Submergence of clutches in the field increased mortality above that in laboratory submergence, but factors other than predation, such as loss of adhesion and entanglement with floating debris, accounted for the losses. There was no evidence that aquatic predators were a significant factor in embryonic mortality. In managed wetlands that hold populations of Pomacea paludosa, flooding should occur slowly during the reproductive season (March through October), particularly in the first few months when clutch production is high, to avoid loss of as much as 2 wk of clutch production.
24320567|The green treefrog (Hyla cinerea) and mole skink (Eumeces egregius) are recorded for the first time, and the presence of black racers (Coluber constrictor) is confirmed on Egmont Key, Hillsborough County, Florida. The unique combinations of characters found in Eumeces egregius and Coluber constrictor suggest that these elements of the herpetofauna may have a longer association with this island than previously thought. We note biogeographical similarities with populations in the Florida Keys.
24319445|Peaks of coliform abundance in Biscayne Bay are correlated with periods of heavy rainfall which flush inland canals holding sludge, nutrients and potential populations of pathogens which could pollute beach areas above acceptable levels for bathing.
24321155|We investigated the potential for the gopher tortoise (Gopherus polyphemusj to act as an agent of seed dispersal at Archbold Biological Station, Florida. Scat dissections, as well as foraging observations, were used to determine the seed species and plant taxa consumed by the tortoises during June and July 2001. The diet of the gopher tortoise consisted mainly of grasses and sedges, and these, as well as Pinus elliottii, Galactia sp., Vaccinium myrsinites, and Gaylussacia dumosa, comprised the majority of the plant matter identified in the scat. Germination tests were performed on digested and undigested seed of the two most abundant seed species found in the scat, the exotic grass Paspalum notatum (bahiagrass) and its native congener, P. setaceum. The percent germination of digested P. notatum seeds was significantly lower than the germination of undigested P. setaceum (<1% vs. 27%). In contrast, many seeds of P. setaceum germinated after digestion, and there was no significant difference between digested and undigested seeds of this species. Gopher tortoises disperse seeds of the exotic P. notatum but suppress immediate germination. They disperse the native grass P. setaceum, which is able to germinate immediately after tortoise digestion.
24319931|In January 1981, 4 to 6 manatees were observed apparently feeding on Ulva sp. (green alga) near a shallow sand bar at the mouth of the Alafia River. Plant material was subsequently collected for identification and weight. Algae collected were Graciliaria tikvahiae (dominant), Ulva sp. and Chaetomorpha linum. It is suggested that marine algae may be an important food source for the Tampa Bay winter manatee population. From the available information we were not able to determine whether the manatees were actively selecting Ulva on which to feed.
24319926|A brief comment with scanning and transmission electron micrographs is given for 19 species and varieties of Chrysophycean genera occurring in Florida lakes and rivers. Two taxa have not been reported previously from North America.
24321839|We developed lengthweight relationships for 25 fish species collected throughout the Wekiva River drainage in central Florida. Sixteen species, mostly killifishes, minnows, darters and sunfishes, had lengthweight regressions slopes significantly < 3.0 (P < 0.05). Only American Eel (Anguilla rostrata) had a length-weight regression slope significantly > 3.0. Plots of variance to mean ratios of log10 transformed weight data were used to evaluate sources of variance in length-weight data of small fishes. Results indicate that by weighing small fishes in the laboratory, individuals as small as 710 mm TL and weighing as little as 0.01 g, can be used to calculate some species length-weight regressions. For a majority of fish species (15 of 23), individuals captured in the fall (OctoberNovember) had significantly higher relative condition factors (Kn,) than individuals captured in the spring and early summer (MayJuly). While reproduction cycles could partly be responsible for the observed seasonal differences in Kn, it appears that seasonal differences in food availability, particularly invertebrates, may also play a role. We conclude that lengthweight regressions and Kn values may provide useful tools for evaluating population responses of a broad suite of fish species to potential habitat changes, and altered flows in the Wekiva River.
24319529|Food habits and reproduction of the taillight shiner (Notropis maculatus (Hay)) were studied from 1718 fish collected in a small pond in Hillsborough County, Florida. The population consisted of two life stages, juvenile and adult. Both life stages showed similar dietary patterns, feeding primarily on algae from late summer through early winter, and Cladocera from late winter through spring. Except for one occasion, both life stages continually selected ostracods, and copepods usually were avoided. The breeding season, modulated by warm-waters and abundant sunshine, extended MarchSeptember with spawning terminating by October. Recruitment occurred from July through February. Mature females consistently were larger than mature males.
24321804|Nemapalpus nearcticus Young (Diptera: Psychodidae) is reported from Vaca Key, Monroe County, Florida. This species previously was known only from Alachua and Levy Counties, Florida, and from Abaco Island, Bahamas.
24320670|A Recycling Index is defined as a measure of efforts to recycle solid waste. The 1988 Solid Waste Act mandated a goal of 30% recycling for Florida counties. The Recycling Index is a component of the SAFE (Strategic Assessment of Florida's Environment) Project, the presentation of a series of indices that can assist in defining the quality of our environment. Five years of recycling are reviewed, and the implications of the Index are considered.
24319744|Skeletal particles of the major components of the carbonate sediment of the reef shoal environment were examined using the scanning electron microscope. This examination revealed no set pattern of skeletal breakdown according to microarchitectural structure, as postulated by the Sorby principle, but that such a breakdown depends on mineralogical composition, wall thickness, grain size and pattern, density, and the amount of cementation and bioerosion. To investigate general particle-size abundances and deficiencies in carbonate sediment, samples were taken from the reef crest, back-reef rubble and open-sand ecozones of the reef shoal environments of sites from the Bahamas, Dry Tortugas, Lower Florida Keys, Grand Cayman Island and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Size analyses of these samples showed that the sediment is moderately well-sorted, coarsely-skewed and leptokurtic. Although particle-size abundances (or modes) exist in each individual site, there is no particular particle-size abundance that is common to all the sites. It is inferred that the particle abundances (or modes) for each site are a product of the sorting potential of the wave energy and that this sorting potential is the major control of the breakdown of sand-sized skeletal particles rather than the microarchitectural structure as proposed by the Sorby principle.
24321061|The yellow stingray, Urobatis jamaicensis (family Urolophidae), a short-lived, relatively small elasmobranch species (3540 cm total length), is a common inhabitant of hard bottom and coral reef communities in southeastern Florida and many parts of the Caribbean. A paucity of published studies deal with the yellow stingray, none however on the gross morphology of its nervous system. The gross brain structure of the yellow stingray is compared with previously published studies on other batoid elasmobranchs. The external brain structure of Urobatis jamaicensis was similar to that reported for other Dasyatids, including presence of an asymmetric cerebellum. The bilaterally symmetric brain is well developed and quite large in proportion to body size ( 12% bw). Stingrays generally possess a brain three to 10 times the size of their sister groups, the electric rays, guitarfish, and skates (Northcutt, 1989), the yellow stingray is no exception.
24320728|Nine species of mysids, belonging to five genera, were identified from 80 samples and over 4,500 individuals collected from Tampa Bay. Collections were made with dip nets, epibenthic sleds, and triangular dredges in depths ranging from <1.0m to 10.5m. Mysidopsis almyra and M. bahia were the most commonly collected species taken in shallow waters (<2m). These species were sympatric in Old Tampa Bay where they were also abundant in deeper waters. Although M. almyra was restricted to the lower salinities of Old Tampa Bay, M. bahia was frequently collected in shallow areas of Middle and Lower Tampa Bay. Taphromysis bowmani was the dominant species in vegetated areas and was taken from fresh-water in the Hillsborough River to the mouth of Tampa Bay. Bowmaniella brasiliensis is a burrowing species that was found on sandy substrates in shallow waters throughout the Bay. Metamysidopsis swifti was restricted to the surf zone and shallow offshore areas of high energy beaches where it was the dominant species. Brasilomysis castroi, Mysidopsis furca, M. mortenseni, and an undescribed species of Mysidopsis occur offshore and were collected mainly in the deeper waters of Middle and Lower Tampa Bay. However, the latter two species were taken occasionally in waters of <2m. I thank David K. Camp for assistance in the field. Financial support for this study was provided by the University of Tampa (Faculty Development Grant) and the Florida Marine Research Institute.
24320946|The manta ray, Manta birostris, is occasionally observed in nearshore and offshore habitats along the Atlantic coast of Florida. This species has once been observed in a North Carolina estuary, but has not been previously recorded from other estuarine waters of the southeastern United States. This study documents three manta rays observed within the inshore waters of the Indian River Lagoon system, FL, and Port Canaveral, FL, during 1993 and 1994.
24321601|Although Graphocephala atropunctata (Signoret) (Hemiptera: Cicadellidae) is the native blue-green sharpshooter, BGSS, which has been a major vector of Pierce's disease in vineyards in California for nearly a century, only recently has any genomic information become available. Due to the importance of the BGSS as the principal native vector of Pierce's disease, we chose to examine the biology of the BGSS using a genomics approach. A cDNA library was made from adult BGSS, and 8,160 expressed sequence tags, ESTs, were produced. After quality scoring 6,836 sequences underwent assembly which produced a set of 1,915 sequences that putatively represented distinct transcripts. Initial annotation of this dataset identified 44 putative protein sequences were characterized through in silico analyses, and published in the NCBI database (Accession numbers are listed in Table 1). BLASTX analysis identified 10 significant homology matches to heat shock proteins, HSP, which are the focus of this study due to their overall importance and functions in maintaining protein integrity and activity during stressful conditions, such as extreme heat, cold, drought or crowding. A putative full-length small heat shock protein was produced NCBI database accession DQ445538.1. Many other genes of interest which have various functions in leafhopper biology and physiology have also been identified but are not reported herein. The EST sequences reported in this study have been deposited in GenBank's dbEST under accession numbers EH655849EH662328 and EH662332.
24320067|Predrainage vegetational patterns of the Atlantic Coastal Ridge of Palm Beach County were mapped using 1845-1870 survey maps, 1940 aerial photographs, 1913-1973 soil surveys and ground truth studies. A detailed analysis of vegetational changes regarding secondary succession was made by selecting specific areas throughout the overall study region. These areas were described by documenting community changes with regard to species composition and community location. A checklist of the vascular flora was made for each selected area. Using the entire coastal strip vegetation maps and specific study sites, generalizations were made regarding plant succession in the major plant communities; Beach, Coastal Strand, Tropical Hammock, Low Hammock, Scrub, Pine Flatwoods, Wet and Dry Prairies, Mangroves, Swamps and Freshwater Marshes. Pre and postdrainage historical and hydrological information was correlated with geological history in order to show how the physical and biological factors affect vegetation.
24320265|Gonyaulax monilata cysts were found in the sediments from 13 of 37 stations sampled in the Indian River, Florida. The distribution of cysts appears to be the result of 2 unrelated phenomena. In areas where blooms have occurred in the past, the lack of circulation in the lagoon allows the cysts to accumulate. South of Turkey Creek, cysts are found associated with shellfish beds where no blooms have been reported. It is suggested these cysts have been introduced into shellfish regions with oysters which are annually rafted from areas where G. monilata blooms occur. Blooms of this toxic dinoflagellate can be expected to reoccur in regions they have in the past, and the possibility of blooms in the vicinity of the shellfish beds around Grant, Florida now exists. However, there is not sufficient evidence to implicate direct toxicity to shellfish by G. monilata.
24319415|The food habits of the white catfish, Ictalurus catus (L.), from North Newport River, an estuarine area of the Georgia coast, were studied. The digestive tracts of 174 specimens examined contained over 5000 recognizable food-items representing some 50 different species of organisms. Crustaceans, especially amphipods, comprised the most frequently occurring and most numerous organisms encountered. The variety of organisms recovered from the digestive tracts of white catfish in this study and from the stomachs of white catfish previously studied by others, indicate that this fish is an opportunistic, omnivorous feeder. Seasonal movements and diurnal feeding patterns for I. catus are briefly discussed.
24320698|The proposed interstate expansion will affect a number of historic structures, including two National Register Historic Districts. The background of the interstate study and the affected neighborhoods are described. As the project uses partial Federal funding, historic resources which may be impacted directly or indirectly by the project must be identified and protected through the Section 106 process, which involves concemed parties at the local, State and Federal levels. Direct and indirect impacts and an overview of the Section 106 process are discussed in the context of the Tampa project as well as mitigative solutions.
24320426|Forty-two species, varieties and forms of the silica-scaled Chrysophycean families Mallomonadaceae and Paraphysomonadaceae are reported from central and southern Florida. Identifications were based on electron microscopical details of siliceous scales and bristles. Five taxa not previously reported for the U.S. are included, including one new to North America.
24320787|Platinum compounds are of interest because of their antitumor activity. The best known example is Cisplatin, cis-diamminedichloroplatinum(II) (cis-Pt(NH3)2Cl2), which is effective against a variety of human tumors. Two approaches have been taken to produce second generation platinum drugs of enhanced therapeutic effectiveness. One involves modification of the amine and/or the leaving group, while the other involves the preparation of platinum(IV) analogs. This work explores the oxidation of Pt(II) to Pt(IV) complexes by either the action of nitrogen dioxide gas (NO2) on aqueous solutions of the Pt(II) compound, or by nitric oxide gas (NO) on solutions of the Pt(II) complexes in nitric acid. Both approaches appear to produce nitrous acid as a reactive species. The bis(ethylenediamine) system, [Pt(en)2]X2, was investigated and reported here. In this system, rapid oxidation occurs which produces blue intermediates, presumably containing a platinum nitrosyl bond. These species undergo further oxidation in air at slower rates, which are a function of counter ions, to produce pale yellow solutions from which four Pt(IV) nitro complexes, [Pt(en)2NO2Cl](NO3)2, [Pt(en)2(NO2)ONO](NO3)2, [Pt(en)2(NO2)OH](NO3)2, and [Pt2(en)4(NO2)2OH](NO3)5, were isolated.
24321019|We determined background total concentrations of selected elements, bulk density, cation exchange capacity (CEC), pH, and texture for surface soils of Kennedy Space Center (KSC), Merritt Island, a complex barrier island. We classified soils into 10 classes: coastal, acid scrub, coquina scrub, flatwoods, hammocks, freshwater wetlands, saltwater wetlands, citrus scrub, citrus hammock, and disturbed. Within each class, 20 sites were sampled, and the samples analyzed by standard techniques. Four elements (Sb, Be, Co, Ni) were always below detection. Barium, Cd, Se, Ag, and Tl were seldom detected. Arsenic, Cu, and Hg were above detection limits with intermediate frequency, while the other metals were frequently detected. Elements, above detection in >25% of samples, (Al, As, Ca, Cr, Cu, Fe, Pb, Mg, Mn, Hg, K, Na, V, and Zn) varied significantly among soil classes, as did bulk density, pH, and CEC (ANOVA, p<0.001 ). Chromium, Cu, Mn, and Zn concentrations were high in agricultural soils, due to sources in fertilizers or pesticides. Variation in other elements was related to soil origin, age, and degree of leaching. Bulk density was lower but CEC higher in soils where organic matter had accumulated. Mean grain size varied among soil classes; most were fine sands, but coastal and coquina scrub soils were medium sands due to the presence of shell fragments. These data indicate that contamination of KSC soils has not been widespread.
24320085|A male Stizostedion canadense was taken from the Apalachicola River and a male Ammocrypta asprella was collected from the Escambia River.
24319539|Salinity preference in aquatic snakes was measured in a divided aquarium over a 6 hr period. Comparative studies were made on 5 species of snakes from marine, estuarine, and fresh-water habitats: Nerodia fasciata pictiventris, fresh-water Florida banded water snake; N. f. compressicauda, estuarine mangrove snake; N. s. sipedon, fresh-water northern water snake; Laticauda colubrina, marine banded sea snake; and Cerberus rhynchops, marine homalopsid snake. All 3 Nerodia and L. colubrina preferred fresh water to sea water (35); C. rhynchops showed a random distribution. Severe dehydration of one C. rhynchops by submersion in sea water for 109 da without feeding led to a strong preference for fresh water. The Nerodia races showed random distributions in two types of control tests, in which both sides of the aquarium contained fresh water, or both sides contained sea water. Both N. f. pictiventris and N. f. compressicauda preferred fresh water to 50% sea water (17.5). At 15% sea water (5.5), N. f. compressicauda still preferred fresh water, while N. f. pictiventris showed a slight preference for the 15% sea water. At 10% sea water (3.5), N. f. compressicauda again preferred fresh water, whereas N. f. pictiventris showed no significant preference for either salinity. N. f. compressicauda also preferred fresh water to 2 of 3 solutions osmotically similar to 35 sea water, 0.5 Molal NaCl and 0.5 Molal KCl. There was a random distribution between fresh water and 1.0 Molal sucrose. Some preliminary experiments were performed on N. s. sipedon to determine the sense organs involved in the preference for fresh water over 35 sea water. Blockage of olfaction and the vomeronasal system had no apparent effect on the snakes' preference for fresh water. It is possible that oral sensory papillae and/or general oral gustation are involved in salinity perception.
24321476|Basking surveys for Barbour's map turtle (Graptemys barbouri) in 19992001 first documented its occurrence in Florida in the Choctawhatchee River and confirmed its presence in the Ochlockonee River. A total of 294 Graptemys was observed along 145.2 km of the Choctawhatchee River, with highest densities (57/km) occurring in the upper reaches north of Caryville, Holmes County, Florida; no map turtles were observed in the lower reaches south of Camel Bluff, Walton County, Florida. In the Choctawhatchee River, 98.0% of Graptemys were observed from ca. 5 km south of Interstate 10 in Holmes County, where a limestone bottom begins, upstream into Geneva County, Alabama. We classified 41.5% of observed Graptemys as juveniles and 75.9% of adults as males. The proportion of map turtles observed basking during 30-min intervals from 1000 to 1429 hr did not differ significantly from the amount of survey effort. Graptemys barbouri was uncommon in the Ochlockonee River, a blackwater river that probably provides suboptimal habitat. Only four G. barbouri were observed along 162.0 km of the Ochlockonee River in the same two sections where three juveniles were previously captured. Other reptile species observed frequently during the surveys were Pseudemys concinna, P. floridana, Trachemys scripta, Apalone spp., and Alligator mississippiensis.
24321984|Release of copper (Cu) from antifouling paints on marine vessels is pollution concern globally. Estimates of the total amount of Cu released from antifouling paints are fairly well constrained; however, less is known about the dispersal of this dissolved Cu. To help improve our understanding of the fate of Cu releases from antifouling paints, a study was carried out in Crane Creek and the adjacent Indian River Lagoon, FL. Dissolved Cu released from antifouling paints accounted for >90% of the total dissolved Cu input to the creek. The maximum concentration of dissolved Cu in the creek, 2.2 g/L, was 16% above the U.S. EPA chronic value of 1.9 g/L. Potential adverse impacts from Cu were likely reduced by uptake of dissolved Cu on suspended particles. Mass balance calculations for Cu showed that about one-third of the dissolved, anthropogenic Cu released from antifouling paint was transported from the creek into the adjacent lagoon. About two-thirds of the anthropogenic Cu was independently shown to be deposited in creek sediments. Copper values for creek sediments were as high as 201 g/g, well above an effects range-low of 70 g/g.
24321161|Chemistry at USF is about 45 years old, and a number of changes have occurred in that time. The faculty has grown from four to over 30. Department status was obtained 40 years ago. The total amount available for research has grown from a few thousand dollars to over three million. The Department is now part of a research I university. The attitude toward research has obviously changed with the development of first a masters, then a doctoral program in chemistry. The tendency toward interdisciplinary research has been strong for many years. The balance between undergraduate and graduate is good. We can look with pride on the accomplishments of the faculty, staff, and alumni of 45 years.
24319917|Air samples were measured in Tallahassee to monitor fallout from the Chernobyl reactor accident, which occurred April 26, 1986 at 1:23 AM. One set of air samples was collected from April 30, 1986 through May 23, 1986 to measure -ray activity, and another set was collected from April 30, 1986 through June 6, 1986 to measure total  activity. 131I and 137Cs were observed in the  analysis, with 131I peaking on May 9 at 0.7  0.1 pCi/m3 and 137Cs May 12 at 0.40  0.05 pCi/m3. The 137Cs was, however, also present as room background, most likely the result of past above-ground nuclear tests. Tallahassee gross beta activity had large daily fluctuations indicating that this is not a good indicator of increased radioactivity at the levels measured. Data from Orlando are also presented (131I) along with a brief listing of radionuclides and amounts detected in other U.S. cities for comparison. The fallout from Chernobyl did not present a health hazard to the population of Florida.
24319672|Levels of dissolved carbon dioxide under the mats formed by the floating water hyacinth (Eichhornia crassipes) were found to reach levels as high as 60 mmHg. Field data suggest that carbon dioxide is being removed from the water in the daytime by the extensive root system of the water hyacinths and might be available for photosynthesis. Experiments with 14C-labeled bicarbonate verify that the water hyacinth is capable of fixing dissolved carbon dioxide, and this source probably accounts for at least 10% of the total carbon fixed by this plant.
24321922|In Florida, Florida Bass (Micropterus floridanus) fisheries have high recreational, economical, and social value, and trophy-size bass contribute a large part of the identity and draw of these fisheries. In adopting the state's comprehensive Black Bass Management Plan in 2011, the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission (FWC) emphasized a commitment to research and management practices that enhance opportunities for angler catch of these rare and valuable fish. In October 2012, the FWC launched TrophyCatch, an angler-based citizen-science program that documents trophy bass ( 3.63 kg). A primary goal of the program is to establish a long-term record of spatial and temporal characteristics of trophy bass catches, relying on the state's numerous anglers to alleviate difficulties associated with the collection and reporting of these data using traditional approaches. Through 18 months of operation, anglers have documented 694 trophy-size bass with the TrophyCatch program. Initial measures suggest that program participation was low in year 1; however, the first 6 months of year 2 showed a 250% increase in entries, suggesting rapid growth in participation and a promising outlook for achieving program goals. Through time, information gained via TrophyCatch will help the FWC identify long-term and landscape-level patterns in the catch of trophy-size Florida Bass, aiding in future management of the species.
24320666|Hurricane Andrew, the most powerful storm to hit South Florida in over 50 years, passed directly over the northern portion of the Florida Reef Tract on 24 August 1992. Seven months later, a strong winter storm (The Storm of the Century, 1213 March 1993) pounded the recovering reef communities for a period of two days. In this paper, we quantify the coral community on a reef directly affected by both storms, attempt to separate the reef into zones using several multivariate techniques, and document zone-specific damage to corals following each of the storm events. Coral cover on Elkhorn Reef in Biscayne National Park is high (43%) relative to surrounding reefs. Several ordination and classification methods were used to detect coral zonation. PCA analysis showed separation of the reef into three zones, fore-reef, reef-flat, and rubble zone. The reef-flat and rubble zones experienced significant damage during Hurricane Andrew, with most of the damage sustained by the branching coral Acropora palmata. Nearly all colonies had broken branches, but < 30% were entirely shattered. Overall, damage to corals was less than expected given the strength and proximity of the storm. In contrast, the Storm of the Century had significant effects only on reel-flat corals. This lower intensity but longer duration storm removed hurricane-generated live A. palmata fragments reducing potential rates of asexual recruitment, and greatly reduced the cover of Porites astreoides, a species largely undamaged by the hurricane. Thus, sequential storms of varying magnitude and duration caused different patterns of coral damage within a single reef system.
24320718|Stable oxygen isotope compositions of natural waters have proven to be excellent tracers for transfers from one reservoir to another, and have been used in this study of the hydrological cycle of west-central Florida. During the period of 1991-1992, rainwater, atmospheric water vapor, ground water in a transect from the Green Swamp to coastal southwest Hillsborough County, and selected tap waters have been monitored for 18O (ratio of 18O/16O of sample compared to a standard in parts per thousand). Compositions in terms of 18O for the above types of waters were -4.4, -13.6, -2.8, and -2.4 o/oo, respectively. 18O in Floridan water in west-central Florida is invariant during the one and one-half year study, but is heavier than the 18O of rainwater. Calculation of the fractionation factor between atmospheric water vapor and rainwater, collected in St. Petersburg, indicates there is an isotopic equilibrium between the two phases at  25C. Tap water has slightly heavier 18O, compared to ground water. Interactions of old ground water with carbonate aquifer and/or saltwater/gypsum bed are possibly responsible for heavier 18O in ground water near coastal areas.
24321216|Although primarily a herbivore, there are a few observations of the terrestrial Central American black iguana eating bats, rodents, lizards and their eggs, frogs, chicks and other small birds, insects and spiders, as well as the eggs and juveniles of its own species. To this list of animal prey can be added an intertidal-dwelling crustacean, the painted ghost crab (Ocypode gaudichaudii), which this lizard has been observed to capture on a beach in Puntarenas Province, on the northwestern coast of Costa Rica.
24320563|The gastropod Melampus coffeus rapidly consumes mangrove leaf detritus and shows preferences for leaves of certain species and degree of leaf senescence. In the field, most grazing on leaves occurred over the first 24 days with percent total leaf area affected by grazing being 84.6 (Rhizophora mangle), 16.6 (Laguncularia racemosa), and 98.8 (Avicennia germinans). By the end of the 42 day laboratory experiment, about 70 % of R. mangle green leaf area and 80 % of R. mangle brown leaf area had been completely consumed. Also, 70 % of A. germinans brown leaf area had been consumed, while for L. racemosa about 33 % of green and 60 % brown leaf area had been consumed. The high density of snails (99.4-130.2/m2) at the field study site, coupled with rapid consumption of leaf detritus, suggests that M. coffeus is an important component of the overall breakdown and export of mangrove leaf organic matter.
24321085|The D-ribose high-affinity transport Operon (RbsDACBKR) o/Escherichia coli encodes the proteins necessary for high-affinity transport and utilization of D-ribose. RbsD encodes a 15 kDa protein and is the first gene of the Operon. The gene has been cloned into a T7-based expression system and expressed in E. coli. The gene product has been purified in a single step using hydrophobic interaction chromatography. This simple, fast and efficient purification protocol should facilitate detailed characterization of the protein.
24320341|A quarterly baseline study of benthic macroinvertebrates was conducted from December 1979 to March 1981 in the brackish lagoons surrounding Launch Complex 39A (LC-39A) of the John F. Kennedy Space Center. This was performed as part of the NASA Environmental Effects Program for Space Shuttle activities. A baseline monitoring study was also conducted in the Banana River from December 1979 to December 1980 to monitor benthic community recovery at 2 sites in the Banana River following removal of silt by shallow water dredging. A check-list of the macroinvertebrates found in the 2 areas is given. One hundred and twenty-two species were collected from both studies: 67 species from the lagoons and 108 species from the Banana River; 53 species were common to both areas.
24319689|Prey availability and changes in food selection by M. austroriparius were examined on 3 nights, 1 during the period of lactation in early summer and 2 during the intermittant cold weather in early spring. Analysis was based on 669 whole insects and 93 fecal pellets. Warm temperate zone weather strongly influences insect availability and hence the phenology of this insectivorous bat. On the colder spring night, only Diptera were active, and the bats selected the largestmosquitoes and crane flies. On the warmer spring and summer nights, flying insects were more diverse and abundant, and the bats selected several kinds with a preference order of Coleoptera, Lepidoptera, and culicid Diptera. Though feeding as generalists on several prey taxa, the bats appeared to select prey on the basis of size within taxonomic groups. The long period of ample food supply for warm temperate M. austroriparius contrasts with the short growing season for cool temperate Myotis lucifugus and with year-round food availability for tropical emballonurids, with distinct implications for timing and duration of bat reproduction in the 3 zones. Seasonal differences in food supply may also influence the size of summer and winter colonies.
24321387|A specimen of Calpodes ethlius (Stoll) is reported from Vaca Key in the Florida Keys.
24321251|Of the 18 species of sunflowers recorded from Florida, Helianthus carnosus Small is easily distinguished by the scapose flower stalks, yellow disk flowers, and glabrous leaves. This perennial herb is endemic to northeastern Florida and is considered endangered by the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services. The lakeside sunflower is reported for the first time from Putnam County representing the only known population west of the St. Johns River. Associated plants are listed, and the habitat is described.
24320688|A nonindigenous population of the South American armored catfish Hoplosternum littorale (Siluriformes: Callichthyidae) was discovered in the Indian River lagoon system of Florida. Specimens taken during NovemberDecember 1995 represent the first record of this species in the United States. The Indian River population has likely undergone at least one successful spawning, a conclusion based, in part, on its current abundance (a minimum of several hundred adults), locality (far from any known fish farms), and habitat (a series of ditches connected to the adjacent Indian River lagoon and to extensive marsh habitat). Additional surveying and monitoring is required to fully assess the status and impact of this species on the native aquatic fauna.
24321730|Marine algae from the northeast coast associated with the intertidal coquina formations at three beach elevations were studied during all seasons over several years. Taxa identified included 16 Cyanobacteria, 9 Chlorophyta, 10 Rhodophyta, 2 Phaeophyta, and 1 Bacilliariophyte. The Cyanobacteria, equally distributed among epilithic and endolithic taxa occurred mainly on the infralittoral level, were the dominant algae and the only group well represented at all beach elevations. The Chlorophyta, almost equally distributed among endolithic and epilithic species, occurred mainly on the infralittoral zone. The Phaeophyta and Rhodophyta, macroscopic seaweeds, grew primarily on the infralittoral zone. Location and abundance of most taxa remained unchanged throughout the seasons, but Porphyra leucosticta Thuret and Petalonia fascia (Mller) Kuntze were collected only during January through March of each year on the infralittoral and midlittoral levels. Standing crops of endolithic algae in coquina were greatest at infralittoral beach levels, and least at the supralittoral zone. Colonization of endolithic algae on surfaces of beach rocks not previously exposed to nature began within 14 days; after 70 days, colonized biomass reached highest values at infralittoral levels, and smallest at supralittoral zones. Calcite crystals fastened to the formations became colonized with endolithic Hyella sp., Ostreobium sp., Phormidium sp., and fungi.
24320329|More than 72 species of fouling organisms are found in the Indian River. Most are of warm water affinity. Many species are seasonal, whereas others settle throughout the year. Species distribution patterns show that the species composition of the fouling community changes north of the Ft. Pierce Inlet. The Ft. Pierce Inlet area is dominated by stenotopic colonial forms, whereas eurytopic solitary forms dominate the areas north of the inlet. Differences are attributed to increasing environmental stresses on the organisms at locations away from the inlet. Disturbances also influence the fouling community. Most members of the Indian River fouling community are filter feeders, and the suspended materials they feed on may be cycled through the community several times before falling to the bottom as sediment. Fouling communities are an important agent for converting suspended material to bottom sediments.
24321010|The climatic space within which a species survives and reproduces under natural conditions, i.e., its "climatic envelope," offers a relatively simple means for designing a system to monitor early biotic effects of climatic warming. The predicted loss of some part of a temperate plant species' climatic envelope from a certain area under a warming scenario identifies that area as a place where the species may be expected to lose fitness and eventually a part of its natural range. Monitoring fitness components of woody temperate species at sites within areas predicted to show large negative responses to 1C annual warming provides an opportunity for early detection of negative impacts that may be greater with additional warming (e.g., 2C). If a species is an ecologically important component of a major ecosystem, some potential loss of that ecosystem's integrity will also be expected. A number of sites where warming-induced envelope losses are predicted for one or more temperate species can then be identified as desirable parts of a monitoring system. An example involving six native, temperate, ecologically important, woody plant species, three 1 C annual warming scenarios, and a diverse group of major natural ecosystems is presented for Florida. In addition, monitoring sites for detection of warming induced increases in fitness of seven ecologically important, woody subtropical species are proposed, based on the northern boundaries of their current natural ranges. Florida s large and diverse system of conservation lands provides numerous protected areas in which selected species can be monitored over time for early indications of fitness change associated with a warming trend. Field inventories of these areas will be needed subsequently to select those most suitable for monitoring adequate stands and/or numbers of the proposed species.
24320605|On 25 July 1988 a veterinary autopsy attributed the deaths of 3 cattle to prolonged exposure to mass feeding by mosquitoes. During the winter and spring of 1988 an unseasonal delay in the rainy season in coastal mangrove areas resulted in high populations of Aedes taeniorhynchus (Wiedemann). The presence of large numbers of Ae. taeniorhynchus was reflected in data collected on larval and adult mosquito populations within 5 km of the pasture where the cows died. This report suggests that prolonged exposure to large numbers of Ae. taeniorhynchus caused these deaths.
24321100|Spotted bullhead Ameiurus serracanthus were collected from the Suwannee, Ochlockonee, Apalachicola, Choctawhatchee, and Yellow rivers. No spotted bullhead were collected from either the Escambia or St. Marys rivers. The highest mean relative abundance of spotted bullhead was observed in the Suwannee River (1.72 fish/minute) compared to the Yellow River where only five individuals were collected in four years of sampling. The Apalachicola River exhibited a very low relative abundance of spotted bullhead (<0.04 fish/minute) probably due at least in part to the range extension of flathead catfish Pylodictis olivaris more than 20 years ago. Although the flathead catfish has been in the Ochlockonee (at least 11 years) and the Choctawhatchee (at least two years) rivers, relative abundance of spotted bullhead continues to be high (>0.5 fish/minute) in most years. Between 13% (Suwannee River) and 23% (Choctawhatchee River) of all spotted bullhead collected were greater than 23 cm, total length, the previously assumed maximum size. Two spotted bullheads collected from the Suwannee (335 mm; 646g) and the Ochlockonee (338 mm; 588 g) rivers are the largest reported specimens collected to date.
24321117|Patterns of mean zooplankton abundance were observed during JanuaryAugust 1998 in Lake Wauberg, Florida. Zooplankton size structure was evaluated from April August. Total zooplankton density, cladoceran density, copepod density and rotifer density varied significantly among months (P < 0.01). Zooplankton abundance was lowest in January and February, peaked in April and May, then declined throughout the summer. Cladocerans peaked in abundance in May and were dominated by Daphnia, Eubosmina, Bosmina, and Diaphanosoma at varying times throughout the study. Mean length for cladocerans ranged from 0.30 mm to 0.52 mm depending on which genera dominated at any given time. Mean copepod abundance varied among months and was generally highest in spring. Mean copepod length did not vary significantly (P > 0.05) among months due to the dominance of nauplii (>70% by number). Mean rotifer density in May was significantly higher than all other months except April (P < 0.05) with Conochilus/Conochiloides (grouped together) and Brachionus comprising the dominant taxa. Rotifers ranged in size from 0.06 mm to 0.15 mm and monthly mean size was greatest in late summer due to the presence of larger-bodied rotifers. Our results suggest that Lake Wauberg is more characteristic of tropical systems containing smaller adult cyclopoid and daphnid species than those found in more temperate climates. Fish predation may also play a role in structuring the zooplankton community in Lake Wauberg.
24321725|The black spiny-tailed iguana or ctenosaur (Ctenosaura similis) is known to consume a variety of plants and animals in its native range from Mexico south to Panama, but little is known about its behavior and foraging ecology in its introduced range of southern Florida. The abundance of C. similis in certain areas in southern Florida makes it a good candidate to study the diet of this species in its introduced range. Additionally, it has been hypothesized that C. similis illustrates an ontogenetic diet shift, where neonates and juveniles consume mostly invertebrates and adults consume mostly vegetation. In this study, we 1) document the diet of C. similis from two allopatric southern Florida populations (Gasparilla Island and Key Biscayne) and 2) test this diet shift hypothesis. We documented 65 consumed items, including at least 24 native plants and 13 invertebrates, and 14 nonindigenous plants and 2 vertebrates. Ctenosaura similis consumed the Endangered Curaao bush (Cordia globosa) and may act as a seed disperser for Brazilian pepper (Schinus terebinthifolius). We found a significant difference in the consumed item types between size classes, suggesting an ontogenetic diet shift and possible physiological importance of particular food types to particular size classes of C. similis.
24320264|An overview energy analysis model was developed for Volusia County, Florida. It was aggregated to include driving functions causing change from outside the county, and the main categories of land use in the county, including natural, agricultural, and urban assets. Computer simulation of a simplified model suggests trends to be expected in growth and land use for various alternative energy conditions. The increasing ratio of outside purchased resources to local environmental resources is used to estimate the population and development to be expected assuming continued rises in price of fuels and fuel-based goods and services.
24319400|Range of the southern grapefern in Florida is extended 100 miles westward to Escambia County.
24320031|The problem of solid waste disposal by small and medium size communities in low population density regions is addressed in the context of major national problems. In particular, the merits of coburning community waste with locally grown or gathered biomass together with sewage generated biogas and natural gas and coal as needed are examined. What emerges is a strategic approach in which local public problems are solved in a fashion which helps alleviate national problems rather than in isolation. In this approach, factory-fabricated modular waste and biomass to energy systems are installed in local communities and operated by well-trained personnel. This distributed solution has many advantages with respect to a central landfill or mass burn facility including: (1) increased incentives for recycling and separation at the source of toxic and hazardous waste, (2) reduced capital costs, (3) reduced transportation cost, (4) reduced emissions, (5) lower ambient pollutant concentrations, (6) reduced ash toxicity, and (7) the availability of inexpensive energy in the form of steam, hot water, or hot gas. Several possible uses for this energy, which can stimulate the local economy, are discussed. Our work points to the nearterm availability of community waste to energy system technologies (CWEST) and also the need to further develop this approach to energy security and environmental protection.
24319784|A statistical analysis was made of cheek teeth of Plio/Pleistocene hominids. Samples used were Kenya National Museum specimens usually classified as Homo habilis and Australopithecus boisei, and Transvaal National Museum teeth assigned to A. africanus and A. robustus. Certain of the South African distributions appeared anomalous. These included a lower first premolar, first and second lower molars, and an upper third molar from Makapan; and upper first and third molars from Sterkfontein. The anomalies are explained by teeth having dimensions appropriate, within reasonable confidence limits, to populations of H. habilis and A. boisei, as these are known in the East African record.
24319469|The known range of the fish is extended about 100 miles southward.
24319613|Range of the species is extended northward 540 km to Royal Oak Swamp off Lockwood Folly River.
24319520|A community of coral reef fishes in the Boca Raton Inlet was found to be stable despite changes in temperature, salinity and turbidity due to tidal flux. Exceptions were the parrotfishes (Sparisoma spp.) which migrated in with the ocean water and left when the tide ebbed, and the surgeon fishes (Acanthurus bahianus) which became inactive and hid during the outflow of intracoastal water. An intertidal wall was found to house many dusky damselfish (Eupomacentrus fuscus) which defended their temporary territories with vigor.
24319495|An electrofishing and seining survey of a 70-80 yr old oxbow lake and an adjacent section of the Escambia River in northwest Florida yielded 29 species of fishes in the lake and 58 species in the adjacent river. Electrofishing results indicated different abundances of individuals of species common to both areas. A decrease in number of species corresponds to a decrease in habitat diversity in the oxbow lake.
24321082|Surveys for bats using mist nets and acoustic detectors were conducted in Martin and St. Lucie Counties, and the extreme northern section of Palm Beach County, Florida from 20002002. Mist nets were set on 36 nights for a total of 360.0 total net hours, with an overall capture rate of 0.19 bats/net hour. Five species of bats were captured including evening bats (Nycticeius humeralis, n = 36), Brazilian free-tailed bats (Tadarida brasiliensis; n = 17), Seminole bats (Lasiurus seminolus; n = 10), northern yellow bats (Lasiurus intermedius; n = 3), and eastern pipistrelles (Pipistrellus subflavus; n = 2). Bats were captured in all natural communities, but higher capture rates were recorded in ruderal/disturbed habitat. Evening and Seminole bats were captured at a greater frequency in natural areas, while Brazilian free-tailed bats were primarily associated with ruderal areas near structures. Acoustic detections during the survey indicated a higher activity rate in open, early successional or ruderal habitats than indicated by capture success. Bat activity was documented throughout the year, though a limited winter sampling period was conducted.
24319386|The Georgia Institute of Technology is currently engaged in a wide range of solar energy research projects funded by ERDA, NSF, NASA, USDA, and other agencies. A major agricultural applications project is developing several types of low-cost, but effective, solar collectors for farming use. A complete home heating and cooling system is being installed on the campus; one large solar heated and cooled building is completed and another is under construction. A new type of fixed mirror concentrator, which has been operating since last summer, is undergoing continuing testing and improvement. The largest research effort at Georgia Tech is directed toward central station power generation; projects include the installation of 400 KW solar steam plant on campus, development and testing of a 5 MW thermal storage unit, and design of the United States solar thermal test facility. Extensive involvement in international programs has also been a highlight of Georgia Tech's solar energy efforts. Cooperative efforts are underway or proposed with ten other countries including France, Italy, Algeria and Canada.
24320213|Cavity tree and vegetative characteristics of red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis) colonies from 5 wildlife management areas in southern Florida are summarized. On the average, trees utilized for cavity excavation were shorter, smaller in dbh, older, and more widely-spaced than elsewhere in the species' range. Cavities were most commonly found in slash pines (Pinus elliottii var. densa). Colony areas were sparsely stocked, with little or no midstory. Poor growth conditions, extensive timber harvesting and historic timber management practices explain the current condition of red-cockaded woodpecker nesting habitat in this area.
24321990|We investigated the size-frequency distribution of a population of Luidia clathrata (Say) at Courtney Campbell Causeway in Old Tampa Bay from 1971 to 1972 and from 2006 to 2009. An abrupt increase in mean size (arm length from center of disc to arm tip) from 48 to 71 mm occurred between November and December 1971, probably from migration. In contrast, mean arm length increased gradually from 36 mm (June 2006) to 77 mm (November 2008). Although other cohorts might have been present during this period, they might not have been documented because of intermittent sampling. Increase in size was slow over periods of consecutive monthly sampling, suggesting low availability of food. Small individuals were infrequently encountered, suggesting recruitment occurred elsewhere. Maximal mean arm length of L. clathrata at this site was ca. 100 mm. The size-frequency distribution of the population of L. clathrata in Old Tampa Bay has not changed over a 40-yr interval despite human perturbation.
24320484|Firesboth prescribed burns and lightning strikesare common phenomena in the United States, particularly in the south. However, there have been few attempts to examine long-term effects of artificial or natural fires on small non-game mammals. Published reports of the effects of fire on mice of the genera Peromyscus and Podomys are summarized herein. Most papers described response of P. maniculatus, whose numbers increased on burned areas in forests and grasslands. Responses to fire differed among other species and habitats.
24321094|A new locality record for Anopheles grabhamii (Diptera: Culicidae) is reported from No Name Key, Florida. Twenty adult female specimens were collected from May 2003 to January 2004. This species is sympatric with Anopheles albimanus in the Florida Keys and appears to be more abundant in the cooler parts of the year.
24319718|Shells from the reef shoal environment were abraded in different experiments. These experiments were conducted in the surf zone to a quartz sand beach, a carbonate beach, a wave tank, and a tumbling machine. Abrasion rates were also measured on certain corals using a tumbling machine with sand-size carbonate grit. The results of these experiments showed an expected low breakdown of particles using carbonate grid than quartz sand and chert pebble, and that abrasion may by the major factor of breakdown in the back-reef open sand zone.
24320760|This second paper follows one on the first stage (Delumyea et al., 1997) of a search for the source of the anomalously high rate of lung cancer in Duval County, Florida, the subject of 66 studies conducted over a thirty year period are reviewed. It is shown that interest in air quality issues has always been high but has varied over the study period. Concentrations of the six "criteria pollutants" requiring monitoring by the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency since 1976 in Jacksonville are compared with those of nine other comparably- sized cities in the United States-two on the east coast, two on the west coast and five in the "heartland". It is shown that Jacksonville is actually among the cleanest cities, at least as regards the six criteria pollutants.
24319519|An ultrastructural study was conducted of the granulocytes of the toad Bufo marinus. As in higher forms, three kinds of cells were observed: neutrophils, eosinophils and basophils. The granules and other subcellular components compare somewhat to mammals but further studies of this locally abundant animal are required.
24320403|Several colonies of exotic primates are known to exist in Florida. This study was undertaken to report on the existence of the semi-wild colony of squirrel monkeys at the Bartlett Estate in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida and examine the behavioral characteristics of these animals. The Bartlett monkeys are compared with wild troops in South America and with provisioned animals at Monkey Jungle, a tourist attraction in Miami, Florida. Many similarities were expected since squirrel monkeys are known to perform a number of rather stereotypical activities (i.e. penile display). These types of activities were observed, but there were also deviations from the reports given for other troops.
24321215|Fecal pellets from 40 Lower Keys marsh rabbits (Sylvilagus palustris hefneri) were analyzed to determine the food habits of this endangered subspecies. Two grass species (Sporobolus virginicus and Spartina spartinae), one succulent shrub (Borrichia frutescens), and one tree species (Laguncularia racemosa) made up over 70% of diets. With some exceptions, S. p. hefneri fed on the plant species that are most abundant in its habitat. Unlike other rabbits and hares, the major components of Lower Keys marsh rabbit's diet did not significantly vary between seasons, sexes, and sites.
24320160|The floodplain marsh of Blue Cypress Lake, in east-central Florida, was examined to determine the spatial pattern of the vegetation and its relationship to hydrologic conditions. Visual observation and direct gradient analysis of shoreline vegetation indicated six floristic zones. The sequences of biomass maxima of common species and their distributional limits with respect to elevation suggested that this zonation was a result of a complex-gradient in long-term hydrologie factors caused by topographic relief. Beyond the lake shore, on the marsh flat, the zoned pattern was replaced by a mozaic of communities similar to those of large areas of the Everglades. That portion of the mozaic accounted for by communities dominated by Cladium jamaicense (sawgrass) and Panicum hemitomon (maidencane) apparently did not result from hydrologie factors. This was suggested by the sharp borders typically found between these two communities and by the low topographic relief, and consequent uniformity of hydrologie conditions, of the marsh flat. Fire may be the major effector of pattern for these communities by the following mechanism. Maidencane, and it's associated species, rapidly colonize areas where dense stands of sawgrass were destroyed by intense fire and then inhibit establishment of sawgrass seedlings. Sawgrass reclaims these areas, through vegetative reproduction, as a slowly moving front which monopolizes space and light.
24320269|Frequency and distribution of tar balls in plankton samples from the Western Caribbean are described. Thirty-eight percent of the plankton samples was polluted with the highest frequency of pollution being west of Jamaica in an area of convergent currents.
24320100|As populations increase, disposal of man's biological wastes poses increasing threats to man's health through contamination of potable water sources with chemicals and pathogenic organisms. We have addressed the latter and more specifically, the virus problem. Data accrued in laboratories and in the field related to virus survival in the terrestrial environment are reviewed.
24321663|A hydrodynamic model is used to simulate exchanges between Indian River Lagoon and Atlantic shelf waters, and between Indian River Lagoon and Mosquito Lagoon, during the four-year period from 1993 to 1996. Exchanges are in response to wind stress forcing, tidal and nontidal variations in shelf water level and freshwater outflow from 16 drainage canals. Wind forcing is similar from one year to the next, but the timing and magnitude of freshwater releases vary considerably. St. Lucie Inlet is highly responsive to the magnitude of freshwater runoff, most of which arrives through the St. Lucie Estuary. When low discharge into the St. Lucie Estuary coincides with northward wind forcing, a nontidal inflow through St. Lucie Inlet can persist for several weeks to several months. At times of high discharge into the St. Lucie Estuary, most of the outflow occurs through St. Lucie Inlet, but outflow through Ft. Pierce Inlet increases as well. In three of the four years of the study, outflow is greatest through Ft. Pierce Inlet. Model results for all four years suggest a net outflow through Haulover Canal that is of the same order of magnitude as the outflow through the three inlets.
24319510|The unusually cold weather during January, 1977, resulted in fish mortality in waters of the Indian River Lagoon system, Brevard County, Florida. Air and water temperatures for the area are presented, and 30 fish species affected by the cold are listed. Since 1856, 16 cold-induced fish kills have been reported from Florida waters, averaging one per decade. Ecological aspects of cold weather fish mortality vary according to species.
24319864|An extensive ichthyoplankton sampling program was conducted in Naples Bay, Florida during the period of June 1983 to January 1985. Fourteen larval snook, Centropomus undecimalis, were collected during the course of sampling. Larvae ranged from 4.4-7.0 mm standard length and all exhibited complete notochord flexion. All larvae were taken during two 24 h periods in July of 1983 and 1984. Snook larvae were collected on a flood tide within five days of a full moon, and 86 % were associated with the bottom. A significant relationship was found between larval size and the salinity of capture (r = -0.67; P = 0.01; N = 13), indicating the occurrence of larger larvae in waters of lower salinity. The Centropomus larvae collected did not comprise a significant portion of the ichthyoplankton of the area, contributing less than 0.05 % to the total number of fish larvae taken from Naples Bay.
24321935|The decorating behaviors of the spider crab Libinia dubia are examined. This species is well-known for attaching environmental materials to hooked setae on the exoskeleton and camouflaging its appearance. Little is known about the ability of spider crabs to select materials that match the environment. The decorating behaviors in the field and laboratory were documented in terms of the quantity of each decorating material, location and percent coverage of decorations, and color of decorations in association with the color of the environment. Libinia dubia used all available materials to decorate but used filamentous algae as a decorating material most often. Smaller individuals decorated more than larger individuals, while males and females decorated equally. Spider crabs actively changed decorations but did not always select materials that best camouflaged themselves in terms of color and matching their environment. There may not be selection pressures for recognizing color and instead, the selection of materials may be based on the types of materials that adhere best to the hooked setae. Disruptive camouflaging to look "less like a crab" and break up the outline of the body may be the function of decorating, and not to match the environment in terms of color.
24319903|The Anastasia Island cotton mouse appears to have been gone from Anastasia Island for several decades, but this status had not been acknowledged previously. A clear statement of the survival status of this subspecies is confounded by the problematic state of knowledge of its taxonomy. If its range is limited to Anastasia Island, the taxon is extinct. If the range includes Cumberland Island, Georgia, only the former population is extirpated. Though the mechanism of loss from Anastasia Island is unknown, much of the coastal forest habitat of this animal persists but is occupied by exotic black rats (Rattus rattus).
24320719|Chemical analyses of Tampa Bay sediments in previous surveys have indicated that some regions of the estuary were contaminated with mixtures of potentially toxic chemicals. Laboratory tests of 165 sediment samples were performed in 1991 and 1992 to determine the relative toxicity of Tampa Bay sediments. Sediments were collected throughout the estuary to provide a broad representation. Two tests were performed with all of the samples and a third was performed with approximately one-half of the samples. The incidence of toxicity differed widely among the three tests, indicating apparent differences in their sensitivity. The different tests indicated overlapping, but different, patterns in toxicity. Overall, the data indicated that samples from the northern portions of Hillsborough Bay were the most toxic, notably those from Ybor Channel and adjacent waterways. Other areas in which highly toxic samples were collected included Bayboro Harbor, the mouth of Allen Creek, and lower Boca Ciega Bay off Gulfport. The survey was intended to represent conditions throughout an estimated 550 km2 area. Approximately, 80% of this area was estimated to be toxic in the most sensitive test, whereas approximately 0.08% was toxic in all of the tests performed.
24321447|We conducted surveys of natural area managers in south Florida concerning management of Old World climbing fern (OWCF), Lygodium microphyllum (Cav.) R. Br. Managers reported that OWCF poses the greatest threat to natural areas in south Florida, especially in isolated areas where herbicide treatment is limited to aerial application. Foliar sprays, or cut and spray, are the most common methods of herbicide application. Glyphosate was reported as the most commonly used herbicide. Managers reported that the limiting factors in controlling OWCF are time limits/other duties, lack of personnel, and limited funding. Respondents also reported that biocontrol agents may represent the best long-term hope for control of the fern. However, the general consensus of the respondents was that an integrated approach is needed to control OWCF on a landscape-wide level. This integrated control approach would include biocontrol agents, effective ground and aerial herbicide treatment, dedicated field crews, regular monitoring and surveys, adequate funding, early detection methods, coordination among public agencies and private landowners, and the development of alternative treatments including combinations of management techniques such as herbicide application, prescribed fire, and mechanical treatments.
24321150|We describe patterns of mammalian herbivory and examine possible fitness consequences of herbivory on Hypericum cumulicola, an herbaceous perennial endemic to Florida scrub. We noted the presence or absence of mammalian herbivory on 1841 H. cumulicola individuals, from 23 populations in two study sites. At Archbold Biological Station, we found the presence of herbivory to be positively correlated to the number of conspecific neighbors, and negatively correlated with time-since-fire. At Arbuckle Tract of Lake Wales Ridge State Forest, presence of herbivory was affected by habitat (scrub or roadside) and negatively associated with the number of conspecific neighbors. We performed a clipping treatment on naturally occurring H. cumulicola individuals to simulate mammalian herbivory. The results indicated that H. cumulicola appears to undergo compensatory regrowth following defoliation. The one-year fitness consequences of herbivory appear to be neutral although the long-term fitness consequences of herbivory on the perennial H. cumulicola can not be known from this study. We hypothesize that in addition to disturbance tolerance (through increased regrowth rate), patchy distribution and low density may reduce the impact of mammalian herbivory on H. cumulicola.
24320511|The intertidal volume of Florida's Indian River lagoon is investigated to quantify the range of values occurring over a one-year period of time, and to determine the nature of this temporal variability. Intertidal volumes are calculated for the lagoon as a whole, and for three sub-basins defined by the lagoon's three inlets. A one-year simulation indicates that 38.7  106 m3 of water enters and leaves the lagoon on an average semidiurnal tidal cycle. The effective intertidal volume, representing the net exchange, cannot be determined from the historical data base of salinity. The range of 12.6-71.7  106 m3 is due more to diurnal inequalities than to differences between spring and neap tide conditions. The northern part of the lagoon, with 65% of the total surface area, contributes only 9% of the intertidal volume. The southern part of the lagoon has 18% of the surface area, but it contributes 63% of the intertidal volume. Harmonic analysis shows that the M2 constituent is the principal tidal constituent throughout the lagoon. In the northern segment, semidiurnal constituents are damped less than diurnal constituents, and the form number is about 1.5. Elsewhere, the form number is approximately 0.5.
24321131|Neurochemical analyses were conducted on whole brain extracts from dominant and subordinate males of the brown anole, Anolis sagrei. The brains of dominant males contained significantly higher concentrations of catecholamine neurotransmitters such as dopamine and norepinephrine, while exhibiting a lower level of acetylcholinesterase activity. Concentrations of the neurotransmitters, serotonin and gamma amino butyric acid, were significantly higher in the brains of subordinate males. The role of hormones and neurotransmitters in the mediation of agonistic behaviors and dominance in reptiles and other vertebrates is discussed.
24319453|Among 60 female rats fed milo, those on high tannin diets weaned fewer offspring and had lower feed efficiency with or without added sulfate.
24321726|Many studies advocate the use of riparian areas as corridors for facilitating movement of species between habitat patches. A small scale study was designed to test the use of such corridors by rodents using a six month trapping regime in a floodplain and immediately adjacent xeric habitat along the Hillsborough River in Florida. Minimum number alive was used for population abundance and probability of survival was calculated using program MARK. The data suggest that one species, Peromyscus gossypinus, is able to utilize floodplain habitat to a greater extent than the two other most abundant species in the adjacent uplands, Sigmodon hispidus and Ochrotomys nuttalli. This supports the conservation capability of the riparian corridor, designated as a greenway, for P. gossypinus, but not for O. nuttalli and S. hispidus.
24320634|Circulating indoor air of 730 residential homes within the southeastern Florida region was examined over a three year period (1980-1992) for the presence of culturable airborne fungal propagules. Investigations involved the exposure of 2.5% malt extract agar to ventilation air streams emanating from HVAC (heating-air conditioning-ventilation) units. Cladosporium spp. (72%), Penicillium spp. (45%), and yeast spp. (38%) were the most common taxa identified during this study period. Some 54% of the homes investigated had fungal isolates that remained unidentifiable (sterile hyphae), and 8% of the homes sampled were negative for fungi.
24320762|A total of 414 gopher tortoise (Gopherus polyphemus) burrows on 11 separate sites in Lake Buena Vista, Orange County, Florida were investigated using a camera system to add to our understanding of the vertebrate commensal community. One hundred sixteen vertebrates of seven species were observed. A commensal was located, on average, in one of every 3.6 burrows. Eighty six percent of observed commensals were gopher frogs (Rana capito), which were observed on average in one of every 4.1 burrows. Gopher frogs were equally likely to be found in active and inactive burrows and less likely to be found in abandoned burrows. Remaining species were equally frequent in active, inactive, and abandoned burrows. Effects of local and landscape characteristics on the commensal community were evident, but no significant correlations were detected between the number of commensals and the size of the site, number of burrows on a site, burrow density, or the distance to water suitable for amphibian breeding.
24320053|Historical documents, aerial photography and on-site studies have been used to document vegetation changes on the quarter-section where Pine Jog Environmental Sciences Center is located. Data indicate that the entire Pine Jog region is undergoing secondary succession. All analyses show that the original vegetation was wet prairie, marsh and low hammock. Due to lowering of the water table by drainage, many of the wet prairies have changed to pine flatwoods. Frequent burning shortly after the turn of the century reduced diversity in the remaining wet prairies and marshes. The disturbance caused by drainage and fires has enhanced invasion by exotic plants, particularly Schinus terebinthifolius and Melaleuca quinquenervia.
24319515|Cypress trees were more successful than pines and hardwoods in surviving a fire which destroyed 42% of the trees in two cypress dome ecosystems. Cypress trees had comprised nearly half the trees in the domes, which had been drained for several years. After the fires, an average of 89% of the trees were cypress, 9% were hardwoods, and 2% were pines. Greatest mortality was in the center of the dome, where organic matter was deepest.
24320473|The Asiatic clam, Corbicula fluminea, was observed in 4 fully-flooded cave systems along the Suwannee River drainage, with densities of 2820 individuals per m2 measured in one of the caves. This is the first record of corbiculid clams occurring within flooded caves.
24319958|The first specimen of the little brown bat taken in Florida was recorded 5 miles north of Niceville in Okaloosa County on August 16, 1984. It is an adult male taken in a mist net, and extends the known geographical range of Myotis lucifugus southward from its previous known range in Georgia and Alabama.
24320373|A discussion of historical and modern habitats and animals is given along with the recent history of the site. Plants known from the area are listed and their frequency, endangerment and introduced or native status given.
24321390|A waterway system of lakes, ponds, and canals lying inland from the coast in Palm Beach County is separated from the present-day barrier island chain and lagoon system by a series of high sand ridges. These ridges, and the waterway behind them, are thought to represent an ancestral barrier island/lagoon system formed during a higher stand of the sea. Evidence for this would include the topographic and geologic similarity of the ridges and the barrier islands, indications on the high sand ridges that sea level stood higher here in the past, and the presence of gaps between the ridges where major tidal inlets or rivers may have once existed.
24320220|Several common methods to measure benthic oxygen demand were compared using measured and literature data. An in situ respirometer technique, a laboratory core-uptake technique and a laboratory flow-through system technique were compared on sand and organic sediment in Lake Washington, Florida. In situ uptake rates were significantly higher than core-uptake rates, and this difference was greater for highly organic sediment than sand sediment. Measured and literature uptake values for in situ respirometer and core-uptake techniques with organic sediment were compared and resulted in a relationship (r = .99; P<.01) of the form: in situ uptake (g O2/m2-hr) = .036 + 1.16 core uptake (g O2/m2-hr). In many cases both core-uptake and in situ respirometer techniques under estimate oxygen consumption, due to difficulties in obtaining correct water velocities over the sediment surface. In the flow-through system studies, sediment oxygen uptake varied considerably with flow rate and a significant logarithmic relationship (P<.01) was obtained with Lake Apopka, Florida organic sediment. Measurement techniques that simulate field flows are the most accurate, such as the flow-through system or the in situ tunnel respirometer technique.
24319808|Assessment of sexual dimorphism in human skeletal remains is a major concern in paleodemography and forensic anthropology. This study is an attempt to develop a new visual sex determination technique based on the morphology of the posterior ilium and the sacroiliac joint. The sample is composed of 17 males and 10 females representing contemporary Americans and Asiatic populations. The analysis of the sample population is based on the anatomical variation between the sexes in the structures of the iliac tuberosity, the postauricular sulcus and the postauricular space formed by the articulation of the ilium to the sacrum. Results of the analysis indicate that the postauricular space, smaller in males, seems to be the most reliable structure for determination of sex. This is followed by the postauricular sulcus, a structure commonly present in females. The iliac tuberosity is the most varied structure and yet such a variation seems to be inherent in females rather than in males, the latter sex being uniform in shape and size.
24320672|The local distribution of ball moss seeds and individuals (Tillandsia recurvata) was characterized on sand live oaks (Quercus geminata). The majority of seeds occurred either on horizontal branches or on the abaxial side of oak leaves; the remainder were distributed on vertical branches, adult ball mosses, or cobwebs. Seed distribution was highly clumped, with a third of the seeds occurring in clusters of two or more seeds. Few seeds occurred on lichen-covered branches. Of the seeds occurring on horizontal branches, 70% were located on the lower surface, 18% on the side, and only 12% on the upper surface. The distribution of ball moss individuals on horizontal branches paralleled the patterns of seed colonization, with the majority of the plants occurring on the undersides of horizontal branches. The high similarity between seed distribution patterns and adult distribution patterns suggests that ball moss distribution patterns may be largely dictated by where the seeds land and attach.
24320436|Two cohorts of south Florida slash pine seedlings and saplings that had invaded seasonal ponds were followed to determine mortality due to high water table or fire. The invasion of slash pines into seasonal ponds appears to be checked primarily by episodic high water tables, although fire can cause high mortality to pines in densely grass-covered seasonal ponds. Fire temperatures in dense grass-covered seasonal ponds were comparable to those attained in adjacent flatwoods.
24319762|An historical and holistic approach to delineating and analyzing changes in the Northern Welsh diet is presented. The Welsh diet is seen to have undergone some major transitions over the centuries, principally due to emerging socio-economic ties with external markets, and an indigenous development of transportation, political, and commercial structures. These factors have mediated the harsh environmental influences of the region upon the Welsh subsistence base and social system. Contemporarily, the Welsh diet is more diversified, stable, and nutritionally-balanced as a result of these historical developments.
24321043|This report describes for the first time the pathologic findings associated with mortality in 17 Atlantic bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) which stranded in the Indian River Lagoon (IRL), Florida, between February 2001July 2002. The cause of death could be determined in most necropsy cases, which demonstrates the importance of performing gross and microscopic necropsy examinations on freshly stranded marine mammals. Causes of death in decreasing order of frequency were infectious/inflammatory disease, cachexia, asphyxiation, degenerative central nervous system disease and traumatic injury. In cases of inflammatory/infectious disease and cachexia, multisystemic disease was common, which reflects the complex and dynamic processes associated with death. Dermatologic disease was present in nine cases. In many cases, the combined histologic pattern of skin, lymphoid and other lesions suggested a state of altered immunologic homeostasis and subsequent immunologic dysfunction. Understanding the pathologic features associated with mortality of stranded IRL dolphins is important for the future management of this species and provides an insight into the health of the IRL ecosystem as a whole.
24320738|The illegal dumping of used motor oil is an environmental hazard with global ramifications. Bioremediation is a process that utilizes microorganisms to convert contaminants to less harmful materials. This study sought to determine if a water-soluble mutagen was a by-product of this process. The first of six tests simulated a dumpsite of used motor oil. A mixture of hydrocarbon-degrading bacteria biodegraded the oil for twelve weeks. The amount of oil that had been biodegraded was calculated through a Total Recoverable Petroleum Hydrocarbon (TRPH) test. A Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbon (PAH) test measured decreases in the amounts of twenty-six hydrocarbons. In most samples, the level of naphthalene dropped within the first two weeks, and was almost completely gone by the third week. An Ames (Salmonella mutagenicity test) assay detected frameshift mutagens during the first two weeks. These results coincided with the decline in naphthalene levels. Thus, the data suggest that the biodegradation of naphthalene produced a putative mutagen.
24320493|A cave fauna kill was observed within the aquatic cave system at Peacock Springs, Suwannee County, Florida following inundation by flood waters of the Suwannee River early in 1991. Populations of the pallid cave crayfish (Procambarus pallidus), the yellow bullhead (Ictalurus natalis), the American eel (Anguilla rostrata), and the Asiatic clam (Corbicula fluminea) were affected. Following the kill, an oligochaete worm, family Tubificidae, colonized the cave with a mean density of 744 individuals per m2.
24319514|Three species, Chenopodium glaucum L., Erucastrum gallicum (Willd.) O. E. Schulz and Potentilla reptans L., not previously known from Florida have been found in Dade County.
24321217|An annotated bibliography is given of studies published between 1986 and the 1st quarter of 1998 of possible methods to predict/monitor or manage harmful algal blooms. Prediction/monitor methods include satellite imaging and absorption signatures. Management methods include mechanical controls, predation, infection, and treatment by natural and synthetic chemicals.
24320246|An extensive survey of southern Florida revealed a limited, coastal distribution of the mangrove mosquitofish (Gambusia rhizophorae). However, discovery of the species in collections from Cuban fresh waters indicates that it is not salinity-limited. Laboratory studies determined the low-temperature tolerance of the species to be 17C (Baumgarten, 1949). The winter, low-temperature isotherm for southern Florida at this temperature intersects all furthest-known points north and west of the species' distribution. Temperature limitations to distribution may be controlled by fertility which, for the mangrove mosquitofish, is known to be correlated with temperature.
24321198|A 1.5 m deep channel incised into the Tamiami Formation near Lehigh (Sec. 10, T. 44 S., R. 27 E.) in Lee County, Florida contained a Blancan-age (Pliocene) vertebrate and molluscan assemblage. At the base of the deposit vertebrates and a diverse assemblage of mollusks were present. The middle of the deposit contained numerous species of mollusks and corals. Here the predominant molluscan species were Turritella perattenuata, Pyrazisinus campanulatus, Cerithium litharium, Conus adversarius tryoni, Chione elevata, and Carditamera arata. Corals found included Solenastrea hyades, Trachyphyllia sp., poritids, Stylophora affinis, and Montastrea annularis. Near the top of the deposit, a bed occurred containing predominantly the gastropod Pyzazisinus scalatus. The top of the deposit was capped by a thin freshwater limestone containing the mollusk Planorbella disstoni. The Blancan vertebrate assemblage is believed to be between 2.5 to 2 Ma in age and correlates well to the basal Caloosahatchee Formation of Captiva Island, which had a maximum estimated age of about 2.14 Ma.
24319487|Nine avian species were studied during the 1974-1975 breeding season at Moore Creek Rookery, Merritt Island National Wildlife Refuge, Brevard County, Florida. Nesting dates, nest location, internest distance, clutch size, and mortality of eggs and young for double-crested cormorant, anhinga, great blue heron, great egret, snowy egret, Louisiana heron, wood stork, glossy ibis, and white ibis are discussed.
24320020|Two experiments were conducted to determine if an enzyme preparation containing alpha amylase and bacterial proteases would result in improved laying hen performance when supplemented to diets containing various grains. In Experiment 1, the enzyme preparation was added at 0, .05 and .15% to a corn soybean meal basal diet. Experimental diets were mixed every two weeks. Fourteen replicates of 10 hens each were fed the experimental diets ad-libitum during five 28-day periods. Results indicated no significant beneficial or detrimental effect on egg production, feed conversion or egg weights due to the addition of the enzyme. Grains used for feeding comparisons in experiment 2 were yellow corn, milo, Florida 301 variety of wheat and Beagle 82 variety of triticale. Each grain was substituted for 50% of the yellow corn in the basal diet. Diets were balanced to maintain equal levels of sulfur amino acids and lysine while protein and energy were allowed to vary among treatments. Treatments consisted of eight replicate groups of 5 hens and were fed for four 28-day periods. Results indicated that grain source but not enzyme, influenced feed consumption and conversion. Neither grain source nor enzyme statistically influenced egg production, egg weight or egg specific gravity.
24322133|Correlations of Secchi depth to color, turbidity and chlorophyll a within and between eight estuaries comprising the Charlotte Harbor estuarine complex were examined. Secchi depth was used as an indicator of light availability for seagrass growth, a primary habitat in the six Florida aquatic preserves in the Charlotte Harbor region. Six years (19982004) of monthly water quality data from the Charlotte Harbor Estuaries Volunteer Water Quality Monitoring Network were examined. Results showed significant differences between the eight estuaries, two seasons and six years for each of the four parameters. Mean Secchi depth values for the eight estuaries ranged from 1.0 m to 1.8 m. Significant correlations were found between Secchi depth and the combination of color, turbidity and chlorophyll a in six of the estuaries, explaining 26% to 53% of Secchi depth change. Color was the strongest predictor of Secchi depth in 6 estuaries and turbidity was the greatest predictor in two of the estuaries. Based on the results, additional water quality questions have been posed which will be addressed in pending status and trends analyses of the data. The volunteer water monitoring program enhances resource management and community involvement in the six aquatic preserves in the Charlotte Harbor region.
24319920|The traditional precipitation pattern resulting from summer convectional thunderstorms over west central Florida as established by the Byers Report (1948) and other studies remained essentially intact until 1977. By 1978 this pattern showed definite signs of weakening and by 1980 significant variances were observed. The current study examines the precipitation variances over the regions from 1978-1985. An analysis of the meteorological causes for these anomalies is presented to illustrate the possible impact upon the climate of west central Florida.
24320568|Observations of current speed and direction are combined with wind measurements to describe flow through Haulover Canal, connecting Mosquito Lagoon with Indian River lagoon. During a 73-day study period in late summer and autumn, 1989, the instantaneous flow varied from about +30 to -30 cm s-1 and reversed in response to both tidal and wind forcing. The mean flow at the study site was about 4 cm s-1 into Indian River lagoon. Assuming logarithmic and parabolic current profiles in the vertical and across the canal, respectively, measurements are translated into a mean volume transport of about 20 m3s-1. The tide-induced residual volume transport alone was 0.06 m3 s-1. Tidal currents carried water the full length of the canal on each half tidal cycle, except under neap tide conditions. Wind forcing over time scales on the order of one week was the most effective inter-lagoon exchange mechanism. Spectral analysis suggests that under normal seasonal wind conditions the net transport is from Mosquito Lagoon to Indian River lagoon during spring and summer months and back into Mosquito Lagoon during fall and winter months.
24320418|The biological variability of the Indian River lagoon system is huge, whether examined over distances from 100 km to centimeters or times from centuries to hours. Biotic communities in the northern end of the lagoon are temperate, whereas those in the southern part of the lagoon are tropicale.g., Spartina marshes dominate in the north, and mangrove forests and seagrass in the south. The fish fauna of the northern part of the lagoon system is strikingly depauperate when compared to that of the southern. Over distances of only a few kilometers or even meters, species composition can change substantially, and densities can vary by two to three orders of magnitude. The lagoon of a few centuries ago was quite different from the lagoon of today. Large changes in submerged vegetation have occurred within the last decade. Changes between years often far exceed and, thus, obscure "seasonal" patterns. In the same habitat, samples taken one day can be very different from samples taken the next day or night. Some of these differences are explainable; others are not. Temporal and spatial variability, instead of being a disadvantage, can be used to identify the processes that produce the variability. Because of the huge variability of the lagoon system, samples from one area or one time period necessarily give an incomplete and often incorrect picture of the lagoon. It is unjustified to assume that a limited study represents biotic conditions in the entire lagoon. I must conclude that a "typical" or "representative" site or time period does not exist. To be representative, a sampling program must reflect the diversity of the system.
24319715|In 1975, the Florida Legislature adopted the "Local Government Comprehensive Planning Act". This act requires all counties and municipalities to create a comprehensive plan to guide future urban development. I discuss the application of anthropological techniques and skills to the production of a comprehensive plan. I demonstrate the integration of ethnography and ethnoscience into the urban planning process. The perspective of this report is that of an interdisciplinary approach, as practiced through a private consulting firm.
24321650|Submerged aquatic vegetation (SAV) are considered prominent species in the Caloosahatchee Estuary, because they provide both food and physical habitat for other organisms. From 1986 to 1995, manual measurements of SAV blade density and length were made during a variety of freshwater inflow conditions. This research helped define an optimum freshwater inflow range. Institution of management procedures to achieve this inflow distribution would be ill advised without subsequent monitoring of the consequences. Therefore, an operational test of a semiautomated hydroacoustic measurement system for detection and characterization of seagrass was conducted quarterly in 1996. Subsequently, routine sampling began using this technology and in 2004, a manual monitoring program was reinitiated. In this paper, the results of the hydroacoustic surveys are compared with the 19861989 portion and 20042007 component of the manual surveys. The comparison found very similar seasonal and spatial seagrass patterns in canopy height and density. The hydroacoustic technology improves spatial coverage information and can provide a good low-cost monitoring tool to detect change in seagrass resulting from resource management decisions. Minimal ground truthing, or when used in conjunction with traditional manual monitoring, will reduce sampling limitations and provide an accuracy assessment that allows adjustment of the hydroacoustic survey results.
24321159|A total of 33 silica-scaled chrysophytes (Chrysophyceae: 1 Paraphysomonas sp. and 1 Spiniferomonas sp.; Synurophyceae: 23 Mallomonas spp. and 8 Synura spp.) were recorded from 26 water bodies in seven south-west Florida counties using transmission electron microscopy. The number of taxa per location varied from zero to 11. Three new records for Florida were observed.
24319498|Burrows identified as those of the decapod crustacean, Callianassa, occur in cores of the Avon Park Formation taken at the site of the Crystal River Nuclear Power Plant, Citrus County. The formation is a prograding carbonate shoreline sequence characterized by periodic fluctuations in sea level. Most callianassid burrows occur in a zone adjacent to, and transitional from, facies deposited in intertidal-shallow subtidal marine grass flats.
24319642|The water budget computation for Lake Okeechobee is a complicated procedure not only because the existing marsh vegetation zones can transpire large quantities of lake water to the air, but also because of the 2 different types of evaporation pans may affect the accuracy of estimating lake's evaporation. A model that considers the marsh zone evapotranspiration and evaporation pan differences was developed to compute the lake's water budget. This new method was found more precise not only in computing the water budget for Lake Okeechobee, but also to reduce the sum of storage deviation by about 94% as compared with conventional method for the past 26 yr.
24320092|Renovation of a borrow pit twelve months after initial renovation revealed pond invasion by at least seven and possibly eleven species of fish including the potentially noxious walking catfish, Clarias batrachus (Linnaeus), via a shallow drainage ditch connecting with a small stream.
24319927|Comparison of black bear diets in fall indicated a less diverse habitat in Osceola National Forest than in Apalachicola National Forest. Although saw palmetto (Serenoa repens) was the most important food item in Osceola, it was insignificant in Apalachicola diets. A palmetto mast failure would have minimal impact on Apalachicola National Forest bears, but could cause an energetic hardship on bears in Osceola National Forest.
24319500|Multispectral Scanner (MSS) images of Biscayne Bay, Florida from the LANDSAT satellite were examined to evaluate their potential as a means of monitoring turbidity in the Bay. MSS images were found to be useful in detecting and monitoring both man made and natural suspended sediment. Man made sediment plumes emanated from a dredging operation in the principal ship channel connecting Biscayne Bay to the sea (Government Cut). Natural suspended sediment was tentatively identified emanating from a bank of carbonate sediments along the seaward margin of Biscayne Bay (the Safety Valve region). Distribution of both man made and natural suspended sediment is closely related to tidal cycle. The technique employed provides repetitive, synoptic data over large areas and greatly reduces the volume of in situ measurements required to accurately describe turbidity in a near shore environment.
24320722|Tampa Bay has been impacted extensively by human activities. Shoreline modifications, ship channel dredging and high nutrient discharges contributed to a period of particularly degraded bay conditions which lasted from the late 1960s to the early 1980s. This period was characterized by poor water quality (e.g., degraded dissolved oxygen conditions, high fecal bacteria counts and high phytoplankton biomass, with seasonal dense blooms of planktonic cyanobacteria), high drift macroalgae biomass and a large loss of submerged seagrass. However, signs of bay recovery appeared in the mid 1980s following successful management actions aimed at reducing eutrophication through the control of point-source discharges from a large domestic wastewater treatment plant and several fertilizer producing plants. The recovery of Tampa Bay is indicated by a large reduction in phytoplankton biomass, including a substantial decrease in planktonic cyanobacteria, an apparent reduction in drift macroalgae biomass and an increase in seagrass biomass. Specifically as a result of the changes in phytoplankton and seagrass, which are dominant primary producers in the bay, major primary production changes are now occurring. Measured phytoplankton production rates are now near half the rates from the early 1980s. In contrast, estimated seagrass primary production rates have increased by approximately 10 percent since that period. Although the estimated gain in production from the recolonizing seagrass is small relative the loss of phytoplankton production, seagrass biomass is increasing steadily. The current trends of phytoplankton and seagrass production suggest that the trophic structure of the bay is now shifting from a relatively inefficient system with high primary production dominated by phytoplankton production, to a more diverse and efficient system with lower total primary production. Further, the changes now underway will almost certainly affect the energy transfer to higher trophic levels, leading to a restructuring of Tampa Bay trophic dynamics. For example, the shift in primary producers may have adverse effects on communities which have adapted to relatively high phytoplankton biomass and production. On the other hand, the shift should favor higher trophic levels dependent on an abundant seagrass community.
24320416|The ichthyofauna associated with 90 spoil islands along 190 km of Indian River lagoon from Haulover Canal to St. Lucie Inlet was surveyed from October 1987 through July 1988. A total of 25,801 individuals representing 60 species and 32 families were collected, with 25 % of the species of tropical or subtropical origin and the remainder from warm-temperate fauna. While Syngnathus scovelli, Eucinostomus spp., Lagodon rhomboides, and Menidia peninsulae were most frequently captured, the percent occurrence of species varied seasonally due to recruitment of juvenile fishes. A UPGMA cluster analysis separated spoil islands into five distinct groups broadly differentiated by influence from ocean inlet waters but greatly affected by seasonality. When spoil islands were separated into four groups based on tidal excursion values and the number of tidal cycles from an inlet, species richness was significantly (p<0.05) lower around islands not affected by inlet waters (>60 tidal cycles) than around islands moderately affected by inlets (within 3-6 tidal cycles). Juveniles of species that are offshore spawners were most common around islands affected by ocean inlets (1-6 tidal cycles) and were rarely or never found in the northernmost portion of the lagoon (>60 tidal cycles). In contrast, lagoonal spawners were generally more common around islands moderately or slightly affected by tidal action (3-60 tidal cycles). In general, spoil island ichthyofauna is similar to the ichthyofauna from other littoral areas within Indian River lagoon. Seasonal recruitment of juvenile fishes indicates the importance of spoil islands as nursery habitat. Finally, distance from ocean inlets appears to affect ichthyofauna distribution around spoil islands.
24321176|We document populations of the introduced African rainbow lizard (Agama agama africana) in Homestead, Miami-Dade County; Hollywood, Broward County; Palm City, Martin County; Punta Gorda, Charlotte County; and Sanford, Seminole County. The Homestead and Punta Gorda populations have been established for over 10 yr and have expanded at least 0.5 km from the point of introduction. The Palm City population has been established since 1999 and the Sanford population since 2000. All agamas were observed in urban or suburban situations perched on walls, rooftops, bridges, rocks, sidewalks, curbstones, or trees. We collected 33 voucher specimens from five populations 28 March 200211 March 2004. Maximum clutch size and maximum snout-vent length (SVL) of male and female A. a. africana in Florida exceeded those in native Nigerian populations. All adult females (94 mm SVL) collected MayAugust contained 518 vitellogenic follicles or oviductal eggs, but a female collected on 19 September was not gravid. Monitoring should be conducted to determine whether the species might eventually invade natural habitats and its potential impacts on native wildlife species.
24320136|An experiment was conducted to determine if calcium in the sediment, which accumulates in poultry waste lagoons, could be used in laying hen diets as a source of calcium for egg production. The sediment used for this study was obtained from two locations within a lagoon, located on a layer farm in central Florida. The farm had been operational for approximately 10 years. Two hundred laying hens, in peak production, were fed either a corn-soybean meal basal diet or the basal diet supplemented with the lagoon sediment. Based on the sediment's nutrient analysis it was added to the diet at a level to furnish approximately 50 % of the total calcium. No significant differences were observed between treatments in egg production, feed consumption, feed efficiency, egg weight, or egg specific gravity. Thus, it was concluded that poultry lagoon sediment can furnish calcium for laying hen feeds.
24321118|The maze learning ability of adult females of the wolf spider, Trochosa parthenus (Chamberlin) was investigated using a shock-avoidance protocol. Adult females demonstrated the ability to learn a relatively complex maze over an eight day training period. The number of blind alley errors decreased significantly, from a mean of 91.2  9.4 on day 1 to 15.2  3.2 on day 8. There was also a significant decrease in the amount of time required to run the maze (from 50.6 min to 10.4 min) over the same training period. This experiment represents the first demonstration of complex maze learning in lycosids. The adaptive significance of learning in spiders is also discussed.
24319928|Digestive efficiencies and consumption rates were determined for a West Indian manatee consuming water hyacinths (Eichhornia crassipes) and lettuce (Lactuca lactuca). The manatee's estimated in situ consumption rate of water hyacinths was low for a mammal of its size, but consistent with its very low metabolic rate. The relatively high digestive efficiencies observed in this study (approximately 80% for water hyacinths and 90% for lettuce) were attributed to the low crude fiber content of plants consumed, the manatee's long retention time of forage, and its extensive intestinal tract. In contrast to other large herbivores, the manatee's consumption/digestion strategy may be characterized by slow consumption and passage rates and postgastric digestion of highly digestible forage.
24319404|P. prometheus is reported from shallow water in the Virgin Islands; depth range of the species is 5-550 m.
24320162|Three bluffs exposing Pleistocene sediments occur along the Bells and St. Marys rivers in northeasternmost Florida. These are of close proximity and similar elevation, but possess different sedimentary features. To reconstruct the paleoenvironment of deposition represented by these exposures, detailed studies of the sediment characteristics, sedimentary structures, and fossil assemblages at each site were undertaken. The results suggest deposition occurred in a marine to marginal marine setting with sedimentation proceeding along a prograding shoreline during marine regression. The sedimentary sequences are interpreted to represent an ancient barrier island complex. Trace fossils, particularly Ophiomorpha nodosa, and sedimentary structures permit the recognition of barrier island, tidal inlet, and salt marsh paleoenvironments. The marine terrace elevations have potential significance for better interpreting the sea level and tectonic history of Florida.
24320461|The observation of a ghost crab catching and feeding on hatchling diamondback terrapin in the wild is the first record of an invertebrate predator on the terrapin. Ghost crabs readily fed on injured and dead hatchlings in captivity. The ghost crab and the terrapin are sympatric and syntopic. The ghost crab could be an important predator on hatchling terrapin.
24321872|Estero Bay Aquatic Preserve is a shallow-water estuary which contains a diverse array of natural communities that make it an attractive environment for wading and diving birds to forage and nest. Nest surveys conducted in Estero Bay for the last four decades detect trends in wading and diving bird populations while engaging and educating the public through volunteerism. Brown pelican (Pelecanus occidentalis) nest counts conducted in May show a significant decrease in nesting pairs in Estero Bay; a loss of approximately 5 nesting pairs per year across the record of study. Comparisons of historic April nest counts to modern nest counts for great blue heron (Ardea herodias) show an increase of 158 percent, which represents a gain of 32 nesting pairs between the two time periods. Other species showing increasing trends in nest counts are yellow-crowned night heron (Nyctanassa violacea) and double-crested cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus), while anhinga (Anhinga anhinga) showed a decreasing trend. Species-level analyses of more recent standardized monitoring provide a more detailed view of population trends in the bay including shifts in species composition and peak nesting times. Future analyses should include nesting data collected by other agencies to assess nesting success on a larger geographical scale.
24321643|The road from data collection to science-based policy determinations is not an easy one. Scientists typically want their efforts to be used to improve society. Elected and appointed officials typically want to have good information to guide their decisions. Data without context mean very little. How do we take scientific information and advise officials with certainty regarding courses of action that they should take? The ingredients include:  Collecting the correct data well before the point that the issue requires policy decisions,  Collecting similar data in different locations to compare and set standards and baselines,  Collecting long-term data so that sufficient data points are available to have near certain conclusions,  Selecting proper analytical methods that are defensible,  Setting objectives and standards so that a context may be provided,  Testing conclusions often at management sites,  Providing the information in ways that are meaningful to citizens, the elected officials' constituents, and  Delivering findings to the officials when they need the information. It all begins with the policy decision to fund data collection and analysis in the first place. This process requires a partnership of scientists, citizens, resource managers, and policymakers. It also requires a partnership of local, state, and federal government and private companies and organizations. The Charlotte Harbor National Estuary Program (CHNEP) is an example of this type of partnership in action.
24320683|Conflicts over a dwindling potable water supply in the Northern Tampa Bay area have been dubbed the "water wars." The authors utilized a modified policy Delphi method to assist experts in identifying the most effective and appropriate water supply solutions. Policy and resource experts participated in a modified Delphi forum through Internet connections to a Vax CMS mainframe at the University of South Florida, Tampa campus. Automated statistical analysis showed that the experts favored a multi-faceted approach in which conservation was the most important factor in alleviating the potable water supply crisis in the Northern Tampa Bay area.
24319936|Three avian species, previously unknown from the late Pleistocene Bradenton local fauna, are reportedCiconia maltha, an extinct species of stork; Lophodytes cucullatus, the hooded merganser; and Melanerpes cf. M. carolinus, the red-bellied woodpecker. This brings the number of avian species known from this locality to 13, including 2 extinct species.
24321023|Mosquitoes and biting midges were collected from Florida State Parks in Monroe County during 1999 and 2000 with the aid of carbon dioxide-baited light traps. Ochlerotatus taeniorhynchus was the mosquito species most commonly collected, comprising 94.6% of specimens in 1999 and 83% in 2000. Other mosquitoes collected were Aedes aegypti, Anopheles atropos, An. crucians complex, Culex bahamensis, Cx. nigripalpus, Cx. quinquefasciatus, Deinocerites cancer, Oc. infirmatus, Oc. sollicitans, Oc. triseriatus, and Psorophora johnstonii. The only biting midges collected were Culicoides arboricola and C. furens.
24312043|Three species of benthic algae are newly reported for the Gulf of Mexico: Agmenellum quadruplicatum, Rhizoclonium tortuosum, and Vaucheria bermudensis. Range extensions in the Gulf are reported for six other species.
24322278|We measured organic matter and seed content in sediments from six common Florida marsh types: slough, flag, maidencane and sawgrass marshes, shrub swamp, and tree island. These wetlands form a wetland gradient that approximates a trend from wettest (slough) to least wet (tree island) sites. Discerning such a gradient readily from seeds or organic matter could be of significance to paleoecological and paleoclimatic studies. Sediment seed content was established by wet-sieving and the minimum viable seed bank in each wetland type was determined from a seedling emergence study. The study of seeds and seedlings revealed significant differences among some vegetation types. Non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) of both the data for wet-sieved seeds and seedling sprouting revealed a distinct separation of the tree island and slough vegetation types. Sediments of communities of intermediate hydrologies, however, share taxa and their seeds and seedlings formed a continuum between the two hydrologic extremes.
24320486|Individuals of the tropical sea urchin Eucidaris tribuloides were maintained under ambient photoperiod at 22 C, 32 ppt and fed ad libitum for one year. Samples of testes and ovaries were collected and steroid levels were determined via radioimmunoassay every three months. Progesterone and estradiol were detected at pg concentrations in both testes and ovaries. Levels of estradiol were highest in males and females during the fall when gonads were mature. Levels of progesterone remained high in both males and females over the year. This is the first report of sex steroid levels in any echinoid species during the gametogenic cycle.
24319417|The subspecies is described from an isolated high valley in the eastern portion of the Dominican Cordillera Central. Comparisons are made with several adjacent subspecies, the relationships discussed among the new subspecies and related subspecies, and a possible history of the species in this region is postulated.
24320520|Aquashade, a deep blue liquid, is a commercial product sold for the purpose of managing submersed aquatic plants. The annotated bibliography summarizes literature pertinent to the chemistry, toxicology, and mode of action.
24319742|Density estimates are presented for 77 bird species observed in 5 major vegetation types in west-central Florida. Sixty-four transects and plots were sampled seasonally in 1976. Species richness was greatest in the woodland type and least in the cropland; 2 pasture types and a meadow type were intermediate. Bird densities also were greatest in the woodland type followed by the meadow. Species frequenting aquatic habitats were important in the seasonally wet meadow type. Various habitat features and land management practices, which greatly influence bird populations, are discussed.
24321732|We conducted three years of fish surveys in rice and sugarcane fields of the Everglades Agricultural Area. Canals and ditches, as well as rice fields, were included in the survey. We observed 22 species of fish, of which eight were non-native species. Eastern mosquitofish (Gambusia holbrooki) dominated the catch numerically (77%). Other small fishes made up most of the remainder, and included flagfish (Jordanella floridae) (5%), bluefin killifish (Lucania goodei) (2%), least killifish (Heterandria formosa)(4%), and sailfin molly (Poecilia latipinna) (10%). Species composition of fish communities were similar to those found in other studies in south Florida in rice fields and in ditches and canals. While there were a number of non-native species caught they did not dominate the communities in numbers or species richness.
24320394|A large number of sterols has been characterized from marine organisms, and relatively few polyoxygenated steroids have been characterized due to their complexity. The gorgonian Pseudopterogorgia americana, was shown to contain several novel steroids that will be published in this journal. Ample spectral evidence, including X-ray crystallography, has been collected to support the proposed structure of the title steriod.
24319884|By means of electron microscopy, new species of the chrysophyte Paraphysomonas, P. spinapunctata, and the prymnesiophyte Chrysochromulina, C. inornamenta are described. The occurrence of Paraphysomonas butcheri in North America is given.
24320346|Seagrass beds in the Indian River lagoon, Florida, had 3 times the density oj macrobenthic invertebrates found in unvegetated sediments a few meters away. Epifaunal abundance was 13 times greater in seagrass than sand. Most epifaunal species (e.g., amphipods, isopods, tanaids, gastropods and shrimps) were uncommon in the unvegetated sediments, presumably due to their dependence on seagrass for providing habitat, food, nursery area, and/or protection from predators. Not only were macrofaunal densities much higher in natural seagrass than in sand, those animals which were more abundant (primarily the epifauna) were also more heavily preyed upon and thus are trophically more important than infauna. Four 3-mm mesh cages were set up, each within a larger 12-mm mesh cage, 2 in seagrass and 2 in sand to test 1 ) the importance of associated macrobenthos to the local food web and 2) the effect of small decapod predators. After 2 mo the inner cages had the lowest macrobenthos density and the highest density of decapod crustaceans, the animals we intended to exclude. The only animals more abundant in the inner cages were the decapod crustaceans. Because cages with mesh sizes even smaller than 3 mm do not effectively exclude many crustacean predators, we conclude that it is nearly impossible to exclude predators from local seagrass meadows. The grazing epifauna of seagrass meadows forms a major trophic pathway to higher predators via the decapods; such a pathway is lacking in sand bottom communities.
24319560|Field studies indicate that the diversity of macroinvertebrates collected by the multiple-plate sampler is time dependent. Pilot studies to determine optimum exposure period are recommended. Comparisons of samples of macroinvertebrates collected by the multiple-plate sampler and the petite Ponar grab from both lentic and lotic environments indicate significant differences.
24321074|The phytotoxicity of aqueous extracts of cattail (Typha domingensis) towards selected aquatic weeds was studied through the short-term impact of exposure to cattail extracts on the rates of oxygen production by the weeds. Rates were quantified using a dissolved oxygen sensor and a computer-interface system (LabworksII). We determined the average dissolved oxygen concentrations before and after addition of the known amounts of extracts. Results indicate that cattail extracts (610 ppm Corg) inhibit the oxygen production of three of the five plants studied (Vallisneria spp., Elodea canadensis, and Myriophyllum spp.). Cabomba caroliniana showed only slight inhibition, and Hydrilla verticillata (Royle) was unaffected.
24319731|Variation of physico-chemical characteristics of a water column is important in any study on nutrient trace metal-ion removal and lake restoration practices. Diurnal variation of selected parameters was studied under a waterhyacinth (Eichhornia crassipes) mat as well as at an open water site in a lake in southwest Florida. Some similar trends were observed at both sites. Temperature pH, and dissolved oxygen peaked at 1400 hr, whereas inorganic carbon, iron, and PO4-P peaked between midnight and 0200 hr. Some site differences were also observed: (1) dissolved inorganic carbon was usually higher under the mat than at the open water site, (2) iron concentration exhibited a bimodal increase under the mat from 1400-2200 hr and 0200-0800 hr, but increased at the open water site from 2400-0600 hr, (3) PO4-P increased from 2200 hr to midnight under the mat, but increased from midnight until 0600 hr at the open water site. The correlations between the data for each site indicate that a more rapid turnover of iron occurs within the micro-environment of the waterhyacinthcovered water column.
24319881|The sampling system consists of a portable peristaltic pump, a sampling line, a filter holder, a sample jar and a Teflon in situ pore water sampler. Each component can be rigorously cleaned and sealed prior to use in the field. Laboratory tests showed that the sampling system contributed no detectable trace metal contamination to the sample. Iron analyses had a relative standard deviation (RSD) of 4-14% and 5-18% for analysis of manganese in estuarine field tests.
24320733|Thirty-four reptile and 19 amphibian species were observed or collected from January 1990 to March 1995 on Buck Island Ranch, an altered wetland in Highlands County, south-central Florida. Of eight exotic species established near the ranch, four were found on the ranch and two others were predicted to colonize the ranch. The number of native species was similar to freshwater wetlands and hammocks of the Everglades in southern Florida and the Katharine Ordway Preserve in north-central Florida. Most species were found in ditches, pastures, and ponds, but also in canals, hammocks, buildings, and orange groves. Results of this survey, although qualitative, indicate that habitats of this altered landscape were tolerated at some level by the same herpetofaunal community found in natural analogs of Florida and that there is potential for ranches to support a resilient herpetofauna.
24321063|A total of 36 silica-scaled chrysophytes (Chrysophyceae: 4 Chrysosphaerella spp., 5 Paraphysomonas spp., and 3 Spiniferomonas spp.; Synurophyceae: 18 Mallomonas spp., and 7 Synura spp.) was recorded from 33 water bodies in nine south-eastern Florida counties using transmission electron microscopy. The number of taxa per location varied from 0 to 16. Seven new records for Florida were observed.
24321164|A simple numerical basis for estimates of microquanta of mass and 1/6 charge in elementary particle sub-structures is observed in tables of Standard Model (SM) data. An equation for these relations yields whole particle masses and conserved charges consistent with the SM for the quarks, for their anti-quarks, and for the leptons. This arises in the equation by a sixth power of the number of the micro-components, with systematicly derived departures from a constant coefficient of two thirds of the mass quantum (with modification for one case.) This observation of a new type of power law basis for systematic regularity in particle structures parallels to a degree some recent theory attempts. The link to empirical data for the general class of theoretically hypothesized sub-particles provides a new point of departure for further particle definition, and for study in the proliferation of particles and on the means of neutrino mass oscillation. There are further predictive implications.
24320306|A limnological investigation of Lake Istokpoga, Highlands County, Florida, and its major tributary streams was conducted during October, 1976 through June, 1977. Significant loading of the lake with nitrogen and phosphorus by the influent streams was discovered. Planktonic primary productivity in the lake was high, with an average carbon-fixation rate of 0.8 gm/m3/day. Nutrient enrichment bioassay experiments were conducted several times during the study period with seasonably variable results indicated. Generally speaking, primary productivity in the lake appeared to be phosphorus-limited. Most of the data indicated that the lake was eutrophic.
24320062|Sea lettuce was grown in a circulating sea water system in 5, 10, 15, 20, and 25% sewage effluent in Tampa Bay sea water and in unenriched sea water as a control. Plants in 5, 10, and 15% effluent grew progressively faster than controls, but all plants in effluent exhibited higher nitrogen content than the controls. In all experiments ammonia was rapidly reduced to a low level or zero, while phosphate was not taken up more rapidly than it was regenerated.
24319873|Fifty-one Rivulus marmoratus were found under partially submerged logs and less frequently in leaf litter in intertidal areas of Big Mangrove Key, Florida, and 2 were found in identical habitat on Grand Cayman, British West Indies. Gut contents of 21 R. marmoratus consisted of insects, arachnids, copepods, polychaetes, vegetable debris, and fish scales. Aquarium maintained fish captured terrestrial prey close to the water's edge, but ingestion occurred exclusively in the water. At 19-20C R. marmoratus showed a significant (P<0.001) tendency to seek terrestrial shelter. Fish also left water to escape antagonists and to move from diminishing to full pools of water. During terrestrial forays, R. marmoratus burrowed through leaf litter with slow, serpentine movements and effectively escaped danger with sudden and forceful tail flips, and became quiescent during extended terrestrial stays. A review of R. marmoratus literature is provided.
24320639|Mark-recapture experiments on a closed population of spotted skunks (Spilogale putorius) on Canaveral National Seashore (a barrier island) were conducted in 1973-74 to obtain a population estimate; we achieved geographic and temporal closure by choosing a 16-km linear section of the island and a 10 day trapping period. The closed model Mbh in the computer program CAPTURE yielded an estimate of 96.0  11.2 skunks, yielding a density of 40 skunks/km2, much higher than the only previous estimate from Iowa.
24319630|A survey of the soil algae from 5 acid sands and one neutral sand in Alachua County during 1972 yielded 72 species. The genera Ulothrix, Stichococcus, Chlorella, Chlorococcum and Schizothrix were the most common, and they occurred in nearly every soil sample.
24320649|The density of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) on the Osceola National Forest (ONF) in northern Florida is low, whereas exploitation pressures are high. Proper habitat management is critical for enhancing population growth and will require knowledge of the quality of pine flatwoods forages. This study evaluated the nutritional quality (crude protein [CP], phosphorus [P], and in vitro organic matter digestibility [IVOMD]) of common gallberry (Ilex glabra), lowbush blueberry (Vaccinium myrsinites), and greenbriar (Smilax laurifolia) throughout an annual cycle on the ONF. Mean annual CP and P content and IVOMD of the 3 forage species combined was 7.5%, 0.063%, and 42.5%, respectively. Nutritional quality of the forages differed among months for all 3 parameters (P < 0.001), and was deficient year-round with respect to the requirements of white-tailed deer. Low nutritional quality of forages during spring and summer may stress adult females during gestation and lactation, and contribute to the low productivity and fawn survival characteristic of deer populations in pine flatwoods habitat. The combination of prescribed fire in both dormant- and growing-seasons should be explored as a strategy for enhancing the growth and quality of deer forages in nutrient-poor pine flatwoods habitats.
24320074|An immature chain pickerel was collected in Santa Rosa Sound, Florida, at a salinity of 3 after heavy rain storms.
24320201|Benthic Testacida from sediments of Lake Washington were studied. The Testacida were extracted using standard foraminiferologic techniques. The determined taxa were photographed using scanning electron microscopy. Twenty-one taxa were found. The majority were cosmopolitan and the most abundant were Difflugia pyriformis and Centropyxis compressa. The Testacida guild was similar to that previously studied in other American and European lakes. However, the type and size of the species were different from those found in soil and mosses.
24319683|Vascular obstructions in xylem vessels of roots taken from trees in late stages of young tree decline were observed with the transmission electron microscope. The vascular obstructions are composed of filaments which vary in diameter, appear to branch, and consist of concentric, alternating electron-dense and electron-transparent layers. Serial longitudinal sections as well as cross sections failed to reveal any biological ultrastructure which correlated with that of known fungal hyphae, actinomycetes, mycoplasma, or bacteria.
24319535|A two-year study reveals Echinaster has a more pronounced annual cycle of organ index change than reported previously for other starfishes. It is greatest in males and appears to he related to a major fall accumulation of nutritional reserves anticipating spawning the following May.
24319705|Reasonable and moderate innovation in the curriculum can be useful, but such innovation should not be allowed to reduce academic standards and interfere with the correct evaluation of student performance. A proper mix of traditional education along with limited and proven innovative concepts should yield far better results than much of the change that has so often been employed in recent years under the label of innovation.
24321129|The Nitroblue Tetrazolium Reduction Test (NBT) was used to analyze mouse peritoneal neutrophils for in vitro oxidative burst activity. Neutrophils were collected from BALB/c ByJ mice following thioglycollate challenge, washed and re-suspended in Hanks Balanced Salt Solution. Neutrophils were exposed to 110-1, 110-5, 110-10, 110-15, and 110-20 g/ml concentrations of lipopolysaccharide, carrageenin, or dextran sulfate, in vitro, and evaluated for changes in oxidative burst reactions. Different concentrations of challenge agents were compared to non-treated saline controls. Results demonstrated that the agents produced significant (2090%) increases of formazan-containing neutrophils in a concentration-dependent fashion. These findings show that mouse peritoneal neutrophils can be used to study cell oxidative burst activity due to exposure to compounds released by infectious organisms.
24320211|During the past 3 yr, meteorological anomalies have occurred with considerable regularity along the west coast of Florida. On 13 January 1981, a well-developed area of high pressure over southern Mississippi resulted in one of the most severe freezes recorded in the 20th century. Temperatures ranging from -7C in the southern part of the region to -13C in the northern section were officially recorded. Substantial agricultural damages were sustained, with the greatest financial losses occurring in the citrus industry. In addition, the freeze damaged many areas of natural vegetation, especially mangrove.
24319809|Selected soils in swamps of the Apalachicola, Florida estuary were sampled and analyzed. Three great groups. Sulfihemists, Sulfaquents, and Fluvaquents were found. These soils were wet, moderately acid, high in clay content, and low in salinity. Kaolinite, vermiculite, quartz, and mica were the principal clay-sized minerals. Decisions concerning agronomic utilization of these soils should be carefully made because of their high potential acidity, low-bearing strength, and frequent flooding.
24321079|During the late 1970s and '80s an extreme cold front followed by an outbreak of White Band Disease destroyed most of the staghorn reef formations in Dry Tortugas National Park (DTNP), Florida, and dramatically altered the reef structure. We studied damselfish assemblages on patch reefs off Loggerhead Key in DTNP during April 2002. We found that dusky (Pomacentrus fuscus), cocoa, (Pomacentrus variabilis), and yellowtail (Microspathodon chrysurus) damselfishes were common on patch reefs and had respective densities of 0.33, 0.32, and 0.06 fish/m2. Cocoa damselfish was the most widely distributed species, possibly due to its ability to recruit to the reef as juveniles, and to colonize more demanding reef habitats. Spatial partitioning across reefs was observed among the three damselfishes with monospecific aggregations occurring on 55% of plots and multi-species aggregations on 45% of plots and, weak vertical partitioning patterns were only observed for dusky damselfish. Density, distribution, and vertical stratification of territorial damselfishes differed from pre-1976 data reported from Alligator and Looe Key reefs, Florida, suggesting that these fishes may adjust population assemblages to accommodate catastrophic alterations to their physical habitat due to events such as cold or disease.
24320983|The Florida Exotic Pest Plant Council (EPPC) has been publishing a list of invasive plants in the state since 1991. The 1997 list includes 29 species with the climber life-form. A historical summary of the introduction of these species, and the place of the life-form in the ecology of North America is presented. The conclusion is drawn that this life strategy is less common in North America than in the tropics. That factor, plus several not examined, has contributed to many species of climbers becoming invasive pests in native Florida plant communities.
24321414|During OctoberNovember 2002 and September 2003, 156 hatchery-reared common snook, Centropomus undecimalis (Bloch) (434680 mm TL, 6722445 g) carrying dart and elastomer tags were released in two mosquito impoundments south and north of Fort Pierce Inlet, Florida. Three were seen, and four were caught (three by hook and line, one by seine) as far as 42 km from their release sites. All seven were in schools of wild snook of similar size, and were reported to behave like and look as healthy as the wild snook. The three caught by recreational fishermen on hook-and-line were among wild snook being caught on the same baits: live mullet (Mugil sp.), live shrimp (Penaeus sp.), and artificial shrimp. Nine of 15 snook with ultrasonic transmitters were tracked within the impoundments (including one up to 361 d). Six with transmitters (making a total of ten tracked by that method) were located outside the impoundments up to 8 km from the release sites. One of those was in an estuarine channel 1 km away from the release site during 2537 d, was detected at the mouth of a freshwater creek 5 km away at 59 d, and was caught and released by a fisherman under a lighted dock in a finger canal 3 km away at 349 d. That fish then was monitored by a receiver and seen by the first author during 353354 d, under the same dock where it had been caught and released. All tagged snook seen, caught, or located were in areas preferred by wild snook.
24319534|Captured, aquarium held, sea urchins of a presumably normally herbivorous species were observed on several occasions to catch and eat live fish. Perhaps food deprivation stimulated the predative behavior.
24320597|Four additional species of introduced tropical trees have naturalized in Dade County, Florida. The species are Alstonia macrophylla (Apocynaceae), Pittosporum pentandrum (Pittosporaceae), Ixora arborea (Rubiaceae), and Harpullia arborea (Sapindaceae). Brief descriptions, herbaria records, ornamental use, and potential spread are discussed.
24320386|Study of the plants in the Fakahatchee Strand State Preserve during the period from 1978 to 1987 has resulted in a list of 477 species in 119 families. This species richness is unusual because it includes, within a matrix of temperate plant communities, a variety of tropical species found nowhere else in the coterminous United States. Plant communities are discussed and mapped, and a list of species is given.
24319478|Procedures for analysis of light curves of eclipsing binaries appropriate to the Russell Model and employing, at most, very modest computer formulations, are applied to a series of observations of EE Pegasi and to a series for CM Lacertae. Attention is called to: (1) a suggested improvement in the process for determination of the reflection coefficient; (2) the importance of estimating the reasonableness of the ellipticity coefficient as derived from the Fourier approximation representing the between-eclipses portion of the light curve; (3) the usefulness of a very simple, quasi-least squares method of refining tabularly the Russell-type parameters obtained directly from the Princeton Nomographs; (4) the numerical measure of interdependence of parameters which may be provided by plots of the proportioning factors , , , ; (5) the need to recognize that, probably because of the plethora of parameters involved explicitly or implicitly, "refinements" of not greatly different preliminary sets may not always converge to a single final set, whatever the particular method used.
24320291|A white and several abnormal green turtle hatchlings, Chelonia mydas, are reported from the first recorded nesting, in 1980, of the species in North Carolina and north of Georgia.
24320598|Selenium is both an essential trace element in the diet, and it is also toxic at low levels (5 ppm). Anthropogenic activity, such as burning coal for electric power generation, or manufacture of semiconductor electronic parts release selenium into the surrouding environment. This study correlates trends in selenium concentrations with some of the industrial activity near the waters of McKay Bay and Palm River, Hillsborough County, Florida. A previous study carried out in 1976 provides a comparison. Similar trends were found in both studies. An area near the mouth of Palm river and the north end of McKay Bay was found to have the highest levels of selenium in both studies.
24320022|Atlantic white cedar (Chamaecyparis thyoides (L.) BSP.), an often dominant swamp-forest tree of the eastern seaboard, is represented in the southern part of its range by two isolated populations in north peninsular Florida and more extensive but discontinuous stands along the northern Gulf coast from central panhandle Florida to Mississippi. These southern stands have been surveyed from the standpoint of distribution, autecology, habitats, taxonomy, and protection. Selected populations are described in detail, including listing of associated species. Most populations occupy valleys of small streams through deep sandhills, where soils are perennially moist or wet from constant seepage of groundwater but are only briefly, if at all, inundated. White cedars have also colonized boggy pine flatwoods near the coast in panhandle Florida, following the suppression of fire in recent decades. Soils may be peaty or sandy, and are circumneutral where charged by spring water. Fires are less frequent or at least less destructive than in the northern range of the species, due to the incised topography, the constantly moist soil and leaf litter, and the intermixture of relatively poorly burning vegetation of other species. The infrequency of fires favors a mixed forest of white cedars, dicotyledonous hardwoods, and sometimes palms, rather than the uniform stands typical of white cedar in northern stands. Herbaceous species are numerous. Reproduction of white cedar typically occurs during gap succession, rather than after crown fires. Stand age is therefore uneven, in contrast to northern stands. White cedars were found to be essentially unharmed by insect or fungal pests, with lightning appearing to be the major cause of death of mature trees. Utilizing lightning ground-flash frequency data derived from engineering studies, a scale of probabilities is derived for estimating lightning-strike intervals for trees protruding above the forest canopy. White cedars in mixed-growth southern stands commonly show suppression in rate of growth that may continue for 75 years or more. As the tree attains a position in the canopy, the growth rate increases. Canopy trees in a Florida stand, measured over a 22-year span, indicate an annual diameter increase of 0.68 cm; this value is greater than recorded elsewhere for the species. Trunk diameters were observed to approach, but not surpass, 100 cm (except for two Alabama patriarchs, which are about 150 cm. dia.). Height was recorded to 27 m. Age probably does not exceed 190 years (except the Alabama giants, which may reach 275 years). White cedars were observed or reported in association with Parnassia grandifolia, Salix floridana, Taxus floridana, and other endemic or rare species of the Gulf coastal plain. Pieris phillyreifolia, an ericaceous vine, was found to grow beneath the bark of white cedar and produce its shoots at heights to 13 m. In peninsular Florida, a large white cedar has been used by successive generations of black bears as a territorial marker, by claw lacerations of the bark. A variety of white cedar, C. thyoides var. henryae (Li) Little, differentiated largely on the absence of foliar glands, is recognized from five counties in western Florida and adjacent Alabama.
24319954|A live, juvenile Atlantic hawksbill turtle (Eretmochelys imbricata), entangled in synthetic line and sargassum, stranded on the ocean beach near Melbourne Beach, Brevard Co., Florida on 14 July 1983. After two months in captivity, during which time the left front flipper was lost, the turtle was tagged and released at Sebastian Inlet, Florida. This is the first record in the primary literature of a juvenile hawksbill from Florida coastal waters.
24321193|Florida scrub is a globally imperiled ecosystem with high endemism. This study examined the distribution of 38 plant species associated with the Florida scrub habitat in 20 remaining fragments in Pinellas, a county that has experienced a 99% reduction in scrub area since 1900. In particular, we identify if natural history (dispersal type, life cycle strategy, life-form, habitat specificity) and biogeographic (range type) characteristics associated with selective extinction can be used to predict rare species by incidence in remaining fragments. There were few associations or significant differences among natural history characteristics and rarity in Florida scrub. However, anemochory was negatively associated with species richness suggesting that fragments with low species richness contain a high proportion of wind-dispersed species. The biogeographic characteristic of range type (Florida endemic vs. non-endemic) was the best predictor of species incidence at a local scale, and regional scale distributions of species in Florida were associated with local scale distributions in remaining fragments. A conservation assessment of species and remaining fragments is discussed relating to protection status of all sites and focusing on sites with high diversity of scrub species, scrub obligates, and endangered species.
24319601|A new species of Sphaerodactylus is described from the Pennsula de Saman and east central Repblica Dominicana. Brief notes are given on the ecology of the species, and comparisons between it and other sympatric congeners are made.
24319991|This ethnographic study focuses upon the interactions of residents and staff at an alcoholism treatment facility for chronic public inebriates. Through direct observation, interviewing, and perusal of statistical material in agency files, both resident and staff cultures were examined. Fundamental findings suggest that residents and staff are two separate subcultures interacting in a specific treatment milieu. Tentative conclusions suggest that an ethnography using the methodology of participant observation can lead to an understanding of the complex cultural patterns and processes involved in the treatment of alcoholism at a domiciliary for homeless men.
24321453|An initial survey of Pelican Island National Wildlife Refuge (Sebastian, Florida) was conducted during 20032005 to determine butterfly species richness and abundance. Species richness ranged from 17.7 to 29.5, monthly, and 33 to 34, annually. 14 species were recorded within the refuge during every survey month, the most frequently encountered of which were Ascia monuste and Junonia evarete. Overall, a total of 35 different butterfly species were observed within the refuge over 32 sampling dates between January 2003 and October 2005. Surveys were not conducted during September and October 2004 due to damages to the refuge from Hurricanes Frances and Jeanne. Mangroves, the dominant terrestrial habitat surveyed within the refuge, as well as disturbed areas, maintained the greatest species richness and abundance followed by hardwood hammocks.
24320122|Florida's Right To Know Law is a landmark piece of 1985 legislation for its potential for prevention of accidents and illness that may be work related. For some scientists the law will be an imposition on a free investigative spirit. For others, the law will merely reassure the worker that he/she is practicing good health and laboratory safety for himself and those for whom he/she is responsible. The best way to determine the steps needed to be compliant, is to review the law itself at least once and then have a copy available for periodic referral purposes. The law intent is to protect the health and safety of the worker through informed consent. Workplace exposures to toxic and hazardous substance may cause disease or aggravate existing disease, and should be taken seriously.
24321593|We present evidence of continued take of the Suwannee cooter, Pseudemys concinna suwanniensis. Exploitation of this sexually dimorphic, state-listed species is particularly damaging to populations because it is focused on the large adult females. Our results illustrate the need for increased conservation actions for this imperiled riverine turtle. Recommendations include the development of effective education and enforcement programs.
24320232|Six additional records of Clemmys guttata, including the first report for St. John's County, supplement the spotty distribution of this species in northern Florida as summarized by Berry and Gidden (1974).
24321107|An investigation of the ichthyofauna inhabiting the restored mangrove wetlands of Bill Baggs Cape Florida State Park, Miami-Dade County, Florida, was conducted during consecutive wet and dry seasons. Twenty-eight locations were sampled using seines. Measurements of water quality, depth and benthic plant coverage were also taken. A total of 25 fish taxa were found: the most frequently occurring were the epibenthic species goldspotted killifish (Floridichthys carpio), yellowfin mojarra (Gerres cinerus) and rainwater killifish (Lucania parva,). Seasonal differences in frequency of occurrence were restricted to three fishes: rainwater killifish, great barracuda (Sphyraena barracuda) and striped mullet (Mugil cephalus). Fish diversity (taxonomic richness) among the oldest mangrove habitats was significantly higher than among more recently planted habitats. Most of the fish-habitat correlations examined were weak; however, those with water temperature, depth and dissolved oxygen were significant. The presence of the subadult gray snapper (Lutjanus griseus), bluestriped grunt (Haemulon sei urns) and sailors choice (Haemulon parra) indicates that the area may be functioning in support of species with fisheries value.
24319532|The development of papillae and the fine structure of gametes from six species of the green coenocytic alga, Caulerpa are described. The gametes are of uniform structure and resemble other green algal flagellates. Each gamete has a pair of flagella, apically inserted, a single central nucleus, and a basal plastid. A rough endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi bodies, and mitochondria are present.
24321803|The tiger shark, Galeocerdo cuvier, is the largest predatory fish in tropical waters. Due to its wide-ranging movements, diverse diet and perceived potential threat to humans, the feeding behavior of this species has received significant attention in the scientific literature for over 40 years. Such studies have identified various prey items and feeding strategies for tiger sharks worldwide, and new insights into the life-history (i.e. movement, diet, reproduction) of this currently threatened predator are useful in conservation and management initiatives. Here we describe observations of tiger shark scavenging on a terrestrial avian species off the Florida Keys and its potential connection to several large-scale bird die-offs within the region.
24321668|Laboratory experiments were done to examine the potential for low salinity to limit the distribution of colonizing fragments of a potentially invasive macroalga to the Indian River Lagoon, FL. Caulerpa brachypus fragments were subjected to gradually decreasing salinities to simulate a realistic range and duration of exposure that fragments would experience entering the lagoon via an oceanic inlet. Plants were exposed to and held at a range of decreasing salinities starting at 35 psu for one-week intervals. After one-week exposure periods, salinities were reduced by an increment of 5 psu. Upon reaching 20 psu plants became flaccid and began to rot. We conclude that C. brachypus is unlikely to occur in regions where salinities fall below 20 psu, but that populations could successfully be established in the immediate vicinity of inlets where salinities are higher. While plants survived at salinities of 25, 30, and 35, psu a greater percentage of fronds became senescent, frond lengths were shorter, and widths were narrower at 25 psu than at 35 psu.
24320607|We describe aspects of the natural history of Leiocephalus schreibersii from altered habitat in Barahona, Dominican Republic. We marked and observed 18 lizards in June 1991. Estimates of population size and density were 20  4 and 1/70 m2, respectively. Examination of ingesta from stomachs of 17 additional animals suggested that this species is a generalist-opportunist. The sex ratio (M:F, 20:15) did not differ significantly from 1:1. Snout-vent lengths (SVL) of adult (> 50 mm) males (53-86 mm) were larger than those of adult females (55-68 mm). Adult home range (HR) areas did not differ significantly by sex (M, 22-130 m2; F, 16-53 m2), nor were HR areas correlated with SVL. Activity periods extended from 0900-1600 h. Males were aggressive and demonstrated territorial defense. We did not observe female aggression. Lizards most commonly used a sit-and-wait feeding strategy, but some individuals foraged actively for prey.
24319645|The greatest problem facing the criminal justice system appears to be identification of mental retardation. Upon identification the criminal justice system and mental retardation system argue responsibility for the mentally retarded offender who consequently often falls between the cracks of the 2 systems. Approximately 23,000 persons, or 10% of the nation's prison population are retarded. Prison culture has a negative impact upon development of the retarded offender. Housing the mentally retarded offender in an institution for the mentally retarded is inadequate. Consensus firmly supports the need for special treatment facilities and community-based programs. Several advocacy programs have been implemented to defend the rights of the mentally retarded offender. Funding is desperately needed to support in-depth study and pilot projects in this area of gross neglect.
24322000|Eleven years of monthly water chemistry data collected by volunteers from 18 stations in Choctawhatchee Bay, FL were examined to determine temporal (annual and seasonal) and spatial variation. A nested variance component analysis showed that spatial and seasonal variance in phosphorus, nitrogen and chlorophyll was considerable with station accounting for 49%, 41%, and 23%, respectively and month within year and station accounting for 23%, 9% and 50%, respectively. Plotting salinity, nutrients and chlorophyll versus longitude showed a continual gradient from Choctawhatchee River to the East Pass. This gradient indicated an inflection point at approximately Longitude -86.30 where a large change in depth occurred. Data east of the inflection point showed a rapid change and west a much slower change. Years with the highest river discharge showed the highest nutrients and chlorophyll concentrations. Multivariate linear models using longitude and river discharge as independent variables were constructed that can be used to predict total phosphorus, total nitrogen and chlorophyll and these models accounted for 83%, 79%, and 50% of the variance in the data, respectively. These models take into account both spatial and temporal variability and should be useful in estimating water chemistry for the bay. Without the resources provided by citizen scientists it is unlikely that these data would have been available to develop predictive models.
24319970|On November 16, 1985, a specimen of the crayfish Fallicambarus (Creaserinus) fodiens (Cottle, 1863) was collected from the Escambia River flood plain south of Florida Highway 4, 6.6 km west of Jay, Santa Rosa County, Florida. This is the first identifiable specimen of F. (Creaserinus) fodiens from Florida.
24321826|The growth of Lyngbya (Lyngbya majuscula), a cyanobacterium and a considerable nuisance in the Crystal River, Florida was studied under laboratory conditions. Specifically the cyanobacterium was grown in stoppered inverted 500-mL Erlenmeyer flasks using water from the Crystal River as the control medium. The test medium was prepared using the river water passed over a chromatography column packed with Octolig, a commercially available product consisting of chelating agents covalently attached to high-surface- area silica gel. Octolig was designed to be used for removing transition metals, but work has demonstrated that it is also capable of removing nitrate and phosphate from deionized water or well water. Samples were replicated five times each for test and control systems with measurements taken over a two-week period. There were statistically significant differences between test and control for such characteristics as dissolved oxygen (positive for control, negative for test), wet weight, and pH change. In addition, control samples were characteristically green; test samples were obviously chloretic. The origin of the notable differences was not determined in this study, but the results were sufficiently distinctive as to justify further investigation.
24321834|A survey of the shell-bearing land snails of the Calusa Shell Mound area of Ding Darling National Wildlife Refuge, Sanibel Island, Lee County, Florida is reported. I collected nearly 1000 shells of 31 species, which are identified and correlated with occurrences reported in the literature and collections of three major natural history museums with substantial terrestrial molluscan holdings. An analysis of the taxa collected in this survey and other available records, including meteorologic data, reveals a robust and resilient insular faunule (39 species on Sanibel and Captiva Islands, of which 9 are limited to this survey) and an apparently more diverse fauna for all of Lee County (52 species, 8 limited to this survey). These two assemblages contain an unusual mixture of Nearctic, Austroriparian, Neotropical, and non-native elements. I discuss historic trends in species composition, methods of dispersal, introductions, and extirpations in the context of the findings. Further surveys applying the methodologies employed here (notably the combination of field visual reconnaissance with litter sampling) in different habitats on Sanibel and Captiva Islands promise to elucidate further the terrestrial malacofauna based on statistical and ecological expectations.
24319835|The Briarwoods site was a small prehistoric burial mound in Pasco County. It was excavated by archaeologists from the University of South Florida in 1980. Analysis of artifacts recovered from the burials indicates the site was used during the Safety Harbor period, with a possible late Weeden Island-related component (ca. A.D. 1000-1500).
24320332|Between 1972 and 1980, about 1,800 fish collections were taken from the fresh and brackish waters of the Indian River lagoon system and adjacent Merritt Island in northern Brevard and southern Volusia counties, Florida. All habitat types were sampled and a variety of collecting gear was employed to insure a comprehensive survey of the regional fish fauna. The 139 species collected and 2 species reported in the literature are recorded in an annotated list. Eleven of the species collected had not previously been reported from the lagoon system. Comparison of this survey with that of Gilmore (1977a) reveals that the ichthyofauna in the northern part of the lagoon system is much less diverse than that in the southern part. There are about 337 fish species known from southern lagoon habitats and associated fresh waters and impoundmentsmore than twice the number of species collected in the northern region. The southern fauna includes more primary division freshwater fishes, more reef-associated species, and more species with oceanic and tropical affinities. Absence of many primary division freshwater fishes on Merritt Island is explained by lack of permanent fresh waters there prior to man's presence. Many freshwater species now inhabiting Merritt Island probably have been introduced by man. The reduced number of marine species in the north appears to be the result of the latitudinal temperature gradient, the absence of hard-bottom and reef-like habitats, and the limited number and wide separation of ocean inlets.
24321996|Sexual reproductive success in flowering plants depends on many factors, including breeding system, pollinator services, flower density, and resource availability. We studied the reproductive ecology of Asimina obovata (Annonaceae), a long-lived shrub endemic to pyrogenic Florida scrub, by conducting hand-pollination experiments and pollinator searches. We confirmed a previous study showing that spontaneous selfing is rare in A. obovata, that fruit set is pollinator limited, and that the pollinator guild is dominated by three beetle species. However, we also found that geitonogamous crosses result in high levels of fruit abortion, most likely due to inbreeding depression. Although beetles were the most abundant pollinator, they were often uncommon, especially in female-phase flowers. Habitat fragmentation could limit fecundity in Asimina obovata, because beetle pollinators are necessary but uncommon, and their absence reduces fruit initiation.
24321031|Studies were conducted on the life history and ecology of the Mediterranean Gecko, Hemidactylus turcicus on the University of Tampa campus. Sex ratios did not differ significantly from 1:1. Reproductive females were collected as early as April.The reproductive season for most females lasts approximately 110 days. The first females with oviductal eggs were collected during May 911. About 41 days was required to produce a clutch of eggs. Results show ed that there is sufficient time for up to three clutches per season. Most males were reproductively active between June 9Aug. 20. Mean testes weights were highest from April until July 27, ranging from 13.316.4 mg. Testicular mass decreased in early August. Growth rates for both sexes ranged from 0.86.9 mm/month. The smallest male with sperm in the ductus deferens was 42 mm SVL. The smallest female containing oviductal eggs or yolked follicles was 41.5 mm SVL. Juveniles were observed in early June and July, and occurred in greatest abundance in November. Population densities ranged from 4971463 geckos/hectare. These geckos exhibited low vagility. There was no significant difference in survivorship between males and females, or between juveniles and adults. This lizard is a generalist predator and feeds on a wide variety of arthropods as well as gastropods. Peak activity occurred between 21002359 hr. The minimum distance between any two nests was 25 cm. Large spiders, whip scorpions, cats, bats, and Cuban tree frogs were observed capturing and feeding on these geckos.
44113156|Natural communities near freshwater hydrological features provide important ecosystem functions and services. As human populations increase, forested landscapes become increasingly fragmented and deforested, which may result in a loss of the functions and services they provide. To investigate the current state of forested natural communities in the rapidly urbanizing Tampa Bay Watershed, this study examined a systematic random sample of fixed radius 0.04 hectare (0.10 acre) plots that were located within 15.2 meters of a hydrologie feature. These 85 plots were further stratified based on site legacy, and were categorized into three groups: remnant (43 plots), emergent (23 plots), and altered (19 plots). A hierarchical agglomerative cluster analysis identified plots that were most similar to one another within each group. These clusters were then compared to Florida Natural Area Inventory (FNAI) descriptions of natural community types. A high degree of clusters in the remnant and emergent groups resembled natural community types, but variations in species composition and dominance also occurred. However, zero clusters in the altered group resembled natural community types, suggesting anthropogenic changes to the landscape have impacted natural plant community assemblages. Findings from this study fill a gap in our current understanding of how natural communities in the Tampa Bay Watershed differ from those in a non-urban context.
24321995|This study updates earlier findings regarding changes in the relationship between socio-economic status (SES) and life expectancy at birth in Florida between 1970 and 1990 by adding findings regarding the same changes between 1990 and 2010. Earlier research on SES and life expectancy at birth in Florida found that high-SES populations in Florida gained between at least two and as much as four additional years of life expectancy over low-SES populations between 1970 and 1990. Using a comparison of means as well as dummy regression analysis in conjunction with estimates of life expectancy and socio-economic status (SES), we find that between 1990 and 2010, high-SES populations in Florida experienced higher mean life expectancies compared to low-SES populations. However, low-SES populations showed a greater gain in absolute years of life expectancy than high-SES populations during this time period. This second finding suggests that there is an "upper limit" to life expectancy among high-SES populations and that we might be reaching the biological limit to life expectancy among these populations, while low-SES populations still face social limits to life expectancy. This research has implications for current national health policy with regard to the U. S. Department of Health and Human Services' key goal to eliminate health disparities by 2010, and it demonstrates that in Florida this goal was not achieved.
24321038|A pedestrian survey of snakes was conducted for 1022 days on 6 km of rural roads through xeric upland habitats in Hernando County, Florida. Two hundred twenty-eight snakes of 18 species were recorded, 93.4% of which were dead on road (DOR). The southern hognose snake (Heterodon simus) was the second most frequently observed species, and all 39 H. simus were DOR. The local abundance of H. simus was notable, because it has apparently experienced population declines throughout much of its range. Heterodon simus is seldom trapped during drift-fence surveys in Florida, but data on commercial collection for the pet trade indicate that it is still locally common in at least three areas of Florida. Mean annual mortality of H. simus was 2.3/km/yr and for all snakes was 12.8 per/km/yr, despite low traffic volume on the roads surveyed. Two-thirds of DOR H. simus remained on roads for <1 day, although one carcass lasted 12 days. Peak months for H. simus highway mortality were June and November, and hatchlings comprised 96% of roadkills OctoberDecember. Sections of roads bisecting ruderal habitats (lawns, old fields, and improved pastures) accounted for 48.7% of H. simus observations. Heterodon simus can apparently persist in areas of fragmented and altered upland habitats, although cumulative road mortality may be a significant factor, especially for hatchlings.
24320996|Bruner's Sink in Osceola County, Florida, is dominated by giant Bald cypress [Taxodium distichum (L.) Rich.] and Swamp Tupelo (Nyssa biflora Walter). The vascular flora numbers sixty species. This predominantly deciduous wetland forest of cypress and hardwoods over mucky calcareous soils represents a vanishing plant community type in Florida.
24322131|Owing to the catastrophic loss of seagrasses after the 1950s, resource managers in several southern Florida estuaries established water clarity targets to restore seagrass coverage to historical conditions or maintain existing coverage. Recently, analyses of water quality data suggest declining water clarity in some areas of Charlotte Harbor, which may lead to the dramatic impacts to seagrass ecosystems similar to those in other estuaries in Florida. Therefore, resource management strategies for Charlotte Harbor should consider minimum water clarity standards to conserve seagrass resources for the future. This effort provides an optical model to set water quality targets for color, turbidity and chlorophyll a that maintain percent-light-at-depth requirements to achieve the maximum seagrass depth distribution presently observed in seagrass transect monitoring. Analysis of recently-collected water quality data show that in all regions of the harbor, dry season water quality in general met the percent-light-at-depth goals proposed in this effort but less than half the data met the goals during the wet season. The methods proposed here can be refined to better incorporate seasonal and spatial changes in water clarity variables but are an important first step in establishing resource-based water quality targets for the Charlotte Harbor region.
24320135|Two 21-day experiments were conducted to examine the response of chicks to low-level sodium supplementation in drinking water using sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate, and sodium acetate. Birds receiving each of the sources exhibited body weight responses from 25 and 75 ppm levels of sodium supplementation. The growth increase was statistically significant for the 75 ppm treatments in chloride or bicarbonate form. Daily feed and water consumption increased in concert with sodium supplementation.
24320593|Plethodon of the glutinosus complex include the forms grobmani Allen and Neill (1949) and mississippi Highton (1989) which approach each other on the Alabama Gulf Coast. Size, facial/snout proportions, and light-dark pattern elements facilitate separation of the two, known to be distinct in protein electrophoresis. Remarkably, the largely Florida form grobmani extends across Mobile Bay to at least Mon Louis Island, southeastern Mobile County, Alabama. The largely Mississippi form, mississippi, occurs in central Mobile County and adjacent southeastern Mississippi. Nearly ubiquitous habitat destruction over most of Mobile County precluded determination of such alternatives as close parapatry, sympatry, or intergradation between these forms. Most grobmani have a light axilla. In most mississippi the axilla is darkly pigmented.
24320696|A summary of general trends over the past 17 years of water quality data used for the Review and Synthesis of Historical Tampa Bay Water Quality Data, Technical Publication #07-92 of the Tampa Bay National Estuary Program including nutrient, chlorophyll a and salinity data and their relationship with tributary flow regime is presented. Total phosphorus, total nitrogen and chlorophyll a have decreased over the last decade. A positive relationship between tributary flow and total nitrogen was observed for most of Tampa Bay as well as a positive relationship between total phosphorus and chlorophyll a and river flow. However, this latter relationship breaks down after 1984 and was not found for all locations.
24320196|In the Bull Creek Watershed, Osceola County, Florida, vegetation patterns were analyzed in ecological series along three, 2 km-long transects in a 10,522 ha pine flatwoods region. The most common vegetation unit was a sclerophyllous palmaceous, ericoid and quercine shrub association with an occasional canopy of Pinus palustris or Quercus geminata. Across the continua, vegetation changed with topography, moisture regimes and soils. Six out of the ten soil orders in the United States were found: Alfisols, Entisols, Histosols, Inceptisols, Mollisols and Spodosols. A correlation between soil types and vegetation was evident. Upland oak scrub and sand pine dunes, palmetto prairies and savannahs were found over quartzipsamments, haplohumods and haplaquods. Hypericum-grass sinks, cypress domes and ash-cypress-maple swamp forests were located on medisaprists, glossaqualfs, ochraqualfs and argiaquolls. Excessively drained upland soils were low in nutrients while very poorly drained lowland and soils were high in nutrients. Establishment of Spodosols as the most prevalent soil type with concomitant flushing of bases (minerals containing calcium and magnesium) from uplands to lowlands may have coincided with the establishment of the modern pine flora in 5000 BP. The radiation of plant communities, which included the appearance of Gordonia bayheads and Taxodium swamp forests at that time as hypothesized by Watts (1971, 1975), must have been accompanied by the development of new edaphic niches.
24320631|We surveyed commercial organic vegetable and citrus producers using lists provided by the Florida Organic Growers and the Organic Crop Improvement Association, two of the largest certifying agencies currently active in the state. Production practices used by these growers are described, and we examine whether organic nutrient and pest management systems represent viable alternatives for Florida agriculture. Our discussion focuses on the availability and costs of non-synthetic nutrients, issues of scale, and the role of geographic isolation in protecting organic systems. The potential benefits and problems of organic production are considered.
24320428|A significant increase in neural RNA and protein synthesis was associated with avoidance learning and hunting behavior in the spider wasp, Pepsis formosa. Cycloheximideinduced inhibition of protein synthesis significantly impaired learning. The cerebral ganglion was associated with avoidance learning and hunting as indicated by the degree of incorporation of H3-labeled uridine into RNA in specific protocerebral regions including the corpora pedunculata and protocerebral bridge as compared to those found in nontrained controls. Specific behavioral components of the hunting sequence exhibited behavioral plasticity. Cellular and molecular mechanisms of learning and memory and their relationship to brain function in arthropods are discussed.
24320746|Computer-generated Maucha diagrams were used to demonstrate changes in the relative proportions of eight major ions in lakes located in northwest Hillsborough County, Florida. The change in chemistry of the lakes is ascribed to large-scale augmentation of lakes with water pumped from the Floridan aquifer. The ionic diagrams show notable increases in calcium and bicarbonate concentrations for artificially augmented lakes.
24320305|Juvenile Tilapia mariae were collected in southeastern Brevard County, Florida. A description of the area, probable methods of introduction, and reasons for probable establishment, are given.
24320973|Two species of Dichondra are recorded in Florida. Dichondra carolinensis is the southeastern U.S. endemic, ranging from Virginia to Texas. Dichondra micrantha is reported for the first time in the state. Although D. micrantha has been in Florida for over 60 years, it has been confused with the native species. This adventive species has been spread around the world as a lawn weed and grass substitute; it grows in lawns throughout the state.
24320594|A total of 707 freshwater and estuarine benthic invertebrate taxa and allied macrofauna was collected from the Suwannee River and estuary during five separate surveys between 1979 and 1993. Relative percentages of taxa occupying seven vertical habitat zones were as follows: surface-dwelling, 8%; hyperbenthos, 7%; epibenthos-section I, 14%; epibenthos-section II, 48%; embenthos, 18%; hypobenthos, 1%; and epizoos/parasites, 4%. Arthropoda numbered about 70% of the total taxa, of which, 56% were Insecta of the orders (in descending order of prominence) Diptera, Coleoptera, Hemiptera, Odonata, Ephemeroptera, Trichoptera, and Plecoptera. The arthropod Crustacea composed 11% of the total taxa, and about one-half of these were Decapoda. Molluscan taxa composed 12% of the total and, of these, the number of Gastropoda taxa was about three times the Bivalvia. Annelid taxa contributed 15% of the total taxonomic richness. The exclusively estuarine taxa, 28% of the total, were split almost evenly among arthropods, molluscs, and annelids; however, in fresh waters, arthropods far exceeded the diversity of the other two phyla. Of the 3% other taxa, one-third were allied macrofauna such as Hemichordata and Chordata. The taxonomic composition is indicative of clean water conditions throughout most of the ecosystem.
24320159|Freezing air temperatures during the periods 25-26 December 1983 and 20-23 January 1985 resulted in hypothermal stress and mortality of several aquatic poikilotherms in the upper Indian River lagoon system, Brevard County, Florida. Twenty-three species of fish representing 15 families were found stressed or dead in the 1983 freeze and nine species representing 8 families were observed in the 1985 freeze. One hundred and fifty-two sea turtles were rescued from lagoonal waters in January 1985 of which 145 were Chelonia mydas (green turtle), and 7 were adult Caretta caretta (Atlantic loggerhead). Numerous indigenous plant species of tropical and subtropical origin were extensively damaged. These included Avicennia germinans, Laguncularia racemosa, and Rhizophora mangle. Exotic plant species such as Schinus terebinthifolius, Casuarina equisetifolia, and Melaleuca quinquenervia were also damaged.
24319603|Mosses and liverworts were collected from 20 sites representative of the range of biological communities. Whereas only 2 mosses were previously known for Brevard County, 29 mosses, 19 hepatics, and 1 hornwort were found.
24319729|It is proposed that the stromatoporoids previously considered extinct, are equivalent to the silico-calcareous sponges, based on ultrastructure, existing today in the tropical reef environment and that they can be used as a particular paleoenvironmental indicator of the reef crest and patch reef zones. The proposed reef interior environment explains the various shapes of the organism, bedding, and other structures found in the paleoenvironments of the stromatoporoids.
24319702|Chamaesyce deltoidea, with its infraspecific taxa, and Chamaesyce pinetoram were studied with regard to morphology, distribution, habitat, and taxonomy. Analysis of the data supports the ranking of the taxa as discussed by Burch (1966). In addition, the endangered status of the taxa is discussed, and a recommendation is made for the addition of C. pinetorum to the endangered list. Thirty-two specimens were examined; 15 for C. deltoidea and 17 for C. pinetorum.
24320443|An index has been developed that indicates the magnitude of exotic aquatic plant coverage in Florida public waters. Data to develop the index came from the Florida Department of Natural Resources, Bureau of Aquatic Plant Management. The index is defined as the relative proportion (fraction  1,000) of total water body acreage that is covered by two exotic aquatic plants, waterhyacinth [Eichhornia crassipes (Mart.) Solms] and hydrilla (Hydrilla verticillata (L.f.) Royle). For the years 1982-1988, the index values ranged from 42 to 53. The total waterbody acreage during that time period was about 1.3 million acres; 15 to 26% was covered with one aquatic plant or another, and the fraction covered by hydrilla and waterhyacinth was substantially smaller, about 4-5%. Two other indices are considered: total exotic aquatic plants and aquatic herbicides.
24319811|Based on Merton's theory of social structure and anomie, I hypothesize that father custody will occur predominately among middle-class divorced couples. Father custody is viewed as not only a rejection of traditional parental roles, but also as a rebellion against cultural values concerning the role of the family in society. A sample of 101 divorced fathers in Central Florida was used. The hypothesis that father custody would occur more frequently among the middle class was supported. Of 5 variables examined only religion indicated a possible influence on custody. The findings are compared with other information on family change and the importance of class structure as a determinant of family structure is upheld.
24320951|The effect that humic acid (HA) has on the solubility product constant (Ksp) of calcite (CaCO3) and gypsum (CaSO42H2O) was determined. A flame atomic absorbance spectrometer was used to measure the aqueous phase calcium concentration in the solutions. The solubilities were measured as functions of humic acid concentration and pH. Calcite solubility was determined to be a function of [H+] and humic acid was determined to have a minimum effect on solubility. Gypsum solubility was unaffected by humic acid under normal environmental conditions but decreased at basic pH(9) and high humic acid concentration (10 ppm).
24319773|An estimate calculated at the Florida Gulf Health Systems Agency indicated that the prevalence rate of hypertension was higher for the Tampa Bay Area (22.1%) than for the Nation (18.1%). It was my intent to develop recommendations for a model hypertension-diseasescreening program in the Tampa Bay Area to reduce the rate of heart disease. Data for the study were collected from national statistics, available literature and local survey administered by the Agency. The results indicate that the goals of the locally-based programs are not specified, no target population is defined by most of the programs, and there is poor data collection and inadequate record keeping. Recommendations directed toward a more effective and accessible program according to the community's needs are discussed. The study demonstrates the valuable perspective and assistance an applied medical anthropologist can provide in designing a diseasescreening program.
24319717|Asymmetrical sculpture on a valve is much rarer in brachiopods than in pelecypods. The reason for this difference seems to be that pelecypods are primarily burrowers but few brachiopods burrow. The asymmetrical sculpture on the valve of a pelecypod aids the animal in gripping the sediment while it burrows. In brachiopods the beaks of the 2 valves lie at the center of the posterior margin and point directly toward each other. In pelecypods the beaks most commonly point anteriorly, although many have beaks pointing toward each other and a few have the beaks pointing posteriorly. Anteriorly pointing beaks may also be an adaptation that aids a pelecypod in burrowing.
24322461|I developed a preliminary quadrat-based protocol to survey low density populations of burrows of the Gopher Tortoise (Gopherus polyphemus) and applied the protocol in four upland habitats at Avon Park Air Force Range, Florida in 199798. I randomly selected and surveyed 55 1-ha plots in oak scrub, 23 in sand pine scrub, 53 in pine flatwoods, and 17 in oak hammock. Detection probability was maximized by using 10 transects and multiple observers at most quadrats. Oak scrub had the highest density of burrows per ha (1.47) and sand pine scrub had the lowest density (0.17). Spatial distribution of oak scrub burrows fit the negative binomial distribution. Likelihood ratio tests showed that the best model for all four habitats had a dispersion parameter (k) of the negative binomial that did not vary but did have a variable mean (m). This protocol is appropriate to survey low density populations of any object in situations where distance sampling could be inefficient, and can be improved by conducting double-observer surveys at a subset of quadrats to calibrate detection probability. This approach is supported by two subsequent studies that showed that distance sampling is not efficient in cases where densities of burrows are low and that quadrat sampling may offer advantages over other tortoise survey techniques.
24321195|Encounters with the smalltooth sawfish, Pristis pectinata, in Florida Bay and the Florida Keys were documented by soliciting information from anyone who might have encountered them in these areas. Each person who had information was asked the same series of questions to determine the date and location of the encounter, estimated total length (ETL), and habitat characteristics. A total of 1,632 sawfish encounters occurring between 1990 and 2002 were reported to us (89% occurred between 1998 and 2002). Sawfish were encountered during the day and night. Most sawfish were probably immature when encountered. The smallest sawfish (1 m ETL) were found in 2.4 m of water and virtually all larger immature sawfish (1.12.9 m ETL) were found in 10 m of water. The largest sawfish (3 m ETL) were found in shallow water (10 m) and deeper water (to 122 m). This study is the first to document the regular occurrence of smalltooth sawfish in water deeper than 10 m. A wide variety of habitat types were reported and included mud, sand, seagrass, limestone hard bottom, rock, coral reef, and sponge bottom. Most sawfish encounters in Florida occurred betiveen March and August, though numerous encounters were reported throughout the year. Most encounters consisted of a single sawfish being observed or caught on hook and line, hut groups of 220 similar-sized individuals were also reported. These data support our previous observation that the United States sawfish population is larger than previously estimated, and that sawfish are relatively common in south Florida.
24320284|From October 1975 to March 1978, a study was conducted to develop and field test techniques to mark and track manatees in Florida. Assorted "visual tags", such as freezebrands and spaghetti tags as well as sutures and peduncle straps to hold transmitters, were tested on captives and free-ranging animals. Mark-resighting results were generally unsuccessful because visibility of the marks was generally poor, but one freezebrand was sighted 45 mo after application. Sutured radio tags remained attached for up to 28 da and furnished dive activity data. One manatee was sighted in Brevard County during 3 summers and 1 winter between 1977-1980.
24319621|This study attempted to determine the population status of the Florida black bear, white-tailed deer and two endangered wildlife species, the American alligator and Florida panther in the Everglades Region. Questionnaires distributed to field personnel of the Florida Game and Freshwater Fish Commission and the Florida Department of Natural Resources and interviews resulted in population estimates of 145 black bears and 92 panthers, mostly in Collier County. Nocturnal and diurnal counts show that alligator population trends have been upward in recent years despite the loss of more than 1.5 million acres of habitat. Aerial deer counts both pre- and post-hunting season yield a deer population estimate for the 4.5 million acre Everglades Region of 20,000 with a 1971-72 legal deer harvest of 900 from the 800,000 acre Everglades Wildlife Management Area.
24319511|Six left upper teeth were found in an adult cranium of Megalonyx collected from the Ringold Formation, Blancan, late Pliocene of Washington instead of the usual five.
24319418|A specimen was collected on Marco Island, Florida, from damp peat several hundred feet from the nearest water.
24321247|Humic Substance (HS) samples were collected from twenty-five sites along the Suwannee River. These sites included the Okeefenokee Swamp, several springs and tributaries, and the delta where the river empties into the Gulf of Mexico. Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FT-IR) is used to categorize the relative abundance of the functional groups of these samples. In salt-water samples we identified a relatively intense C-Cl vibration indicating the chlorination of the humic substance. We also measured the vibrational spectra of humic acid with several concentrations of HNO3, KOH and Na4P2O7 over twenty-eight days to optimize our extraction procedure by minimizing condensation reactions.
24319883|The growth rate and iota carrageenan content of an ecotype of Eucheuma isiforme found near Bahia Honda Key, Florida and cultivated in outdoor tanks were observed for 7 months during 1975. Cultivated plants fertilized with 34 M nitrogen and 3.2 M phosphate daily had an average growth rate of 9.8 g salt-free dry matter/m2 of lighted surface area of culture tanklda. Unfertilized cultivars averaged 2.9 g SFDM/m2/day. The average iota carrageenan content, expressed as percent of salt-free dry seaweed weight, of fertilized, unfertilized and wild plants was 53.9%, 56.2% and 61.0%, respectively. Plants from this Bahia Honda population demonstrated a life history characterized by rapid growth in the spring, cessation of growth in the summer, development of tetraspores in the fall, sporulation followed by disintegration of the mature plants in the winter, and germination of the spores the next spring.
24319493|A system is described in which the nutrients in treated wastewater are removed by passing the effluent through a culture of aquatic weeds. The incremental growth of the weeds is fed to a culture of grass carp and fresh water shrimp (Macrobrachium). Projections are made for large-scale nutrient removal efficiencies and the accompanying aquaculture yields in the commercial application of such a system.
24320553|Trees in residential areas have been related to the public health, safety and welfare. Many local jurisdictions across the country have considered and adopted tree planting requirements for new homes. Unincorporated Lee County possesses no regulation for tree planting for most single-family lots. In anticipation of new regulations, tree planting and preservation practices without regulation were tested. On the average lot, over 15 trees were planted or preserved, and over half of these trees were exotic. Planting practices varied between communities within Lee County. Community variation affected the cost effectiveness of regulatory requirements when compared to a public tree planting program.
24320450|Sea urchins (Lytechinus variegatus) from Biscayne Bay were fed controlled rations (5-cm blades) of turtle grass (Thalassia testudinum) every 48 hours over an 11-day period in 1988. The rations of grass consisted of either unblemished (green) blades or decayed blades. Decayed blades had nearly twice as much dry weight as green blades of the same size. Ingestion times for both types of turtle grass were negatively correlated with sea urchin size (bigger urchins ate faster than smaller urchins). Mean ingestion times for the two types of blades were significantly different (decayed blades < green blades). Sea urchins did not show a preference when offered a green and decayed blade at the same time.
24319619|Several autotrophic organisms were grown in phosphate slime wastes. Thiobacillus thiooxidans oxidized exogeneous sulfur to sulfuric acid and effected the liberation of bound phosphate from the slime solids. The particle bound phosphate was converted to a soluble recoverable form by microbial action. Ferrobacillus sulfoxidans and Thiobacillus ferrooxidans oxidized exogeneous iron in the presence of slime but had no effect on the iron in the solids. Iron released by acidification of slime could not serve as an energy source for these iron oxidizing organisms. Microscopic observations indicated that the diatoms Navicula incerta and Amphora exiqua were able to grow and divide in unsupplemented slime. None of the autotrophs tested changed the colloidal state of the slime appreciably.
24319635|Hoplias malabaricus has been released and has reproduced in the Tampa Bay area. It is possible, but improbable, that the only population of this species in the area was exterminated. A summary of the life history and ecological data on this species is presented. It appears unlikely that nonbiotic or biotic factors will prevent its dispersal in southern Florida. Because of its large size and voracious piscivorous feeding behavior, a primary concern is its effects on freshwater game fish populations.
24321811|Our goal for this study was to elucidate the seasonal growth dynamics of bald cypress seedlings. Eight 1-m2 plots were established in Sites 1 and 2 within the tidal floodplains of the Northwest Fork of the Loxahatchee River. Seedling heights in and the electrical conductivity (EC) level of soil outside the plots were measured 9 times at approximately 30-days intervals. Seedling growth rates were found to be slow during either early February to early March or mid-July to mid-December; however, the growth rates were rapid during early March through mid-July. Incremental increases of the seedling heights over time followed a sigmoid curve and were well fitted in a logistic equation with R2 greater than 0.99. The EC level of soil at Site 1 was always greater than at Site 2 except on the dates of March 4 and November 4, 2005. Conversely, the growth rate of the seedlings at Site 2 was significantly greater than that at Site 1. This growth analyses provided a basis for water resources management and freshwater plant community restoration in the Loxahatchee River floodplain.
24320476|Five of the seven species of Hypoxis reported from the United States and Canada are found in Florida. A key for the identification of flowering specimens is presented. The known distribution of each species is mapped and habitat requirements are discussed. Also, a summary of ecological observations for each species is provided.
24320124|A humpbacked oyster toadfish, Opsanus tau, is reported from North Carolina. Although normal when captured in 1984, a severe dorsal and lateral spinal curvature developed during retention in an artificial concrete tank. A six month interval elapsed between tank cleaning in January 1985 and the development of the deformity. Speculation suggests the deformity was a response to drops in water temperatures following severe cold snaps in January and February 1985.
24320372|Fishes of eleven Florida rivers were sampled annually to determine relative abundance, biomass and species richness. The goal of this program was to create a statewide catalog of riverine fish resources and to provide a mechanism for detecting long-term trends in fish populations and communities. Both increases and declines of abundance and biomass were observed in some rivers and baseline data for continued monitoring were established. However, preliminary data do not suggest overall, statewide, declines in riverine fish resources.
24321081|We surveyed the reptile fauna of pine rockland habitat in six Miami-Dade County parks using quadrat sampling in 199697 and time-constrained sampling in 2001. Time-constrained sampling detected similar numbers of reptile species per park as quadrat sampling in one-quarter as much time. We detected only 78 reptile species per park regardless of park size, which ranged from 2.4 to 80.9 ha. Of 15 reptile species found using both survey methods, five are nonnative. The most frequently observed species were the nonnative brown anole (Anolis sagrei) and tropical house gecko (Hemidactylus mabouia), whose population apparently has increased during the five years between surveys. Pine rockland has a higher proportion of native to nonnative reptile species than human-modified habitats in Miami-Dade County. Standing and fallen dead South Florida slash pines (Pinus elliottii var. densa) provide important refugia for many rockland reptile species, but these microhabitats are often destroyed by the periodic fires that prevent succession to tropical hammock. Additional survey methods are necessary to detect uncommon and widely dispersed species, such as large snakes.
24321731|Florida Keys collection records for eight species of chironomid midges are presented. Two species of Orthocladiinae, three species of Chironominae, and one species of Tanypodinae have been collected during routine mosquito control surveillance. Older collections of one species of Orthocladiinae and one species of Telmatogetoninae also are reported.
24322134|Environmental pollutants capable of disrupting endocrine function and impairing hormonally regulated processes such as animal reproduction pose significant threats to the health of aquatic wildlife populations. Unfortunately, broad assessments of endocrine-disrupting activity are difficult to perform for large aquatic ecosystems because of the substantial number of hormonally active contaminants and the expense of conducting specific chemical analyses for each of these compounds. This report describes pilot attempts to detect the presence of endocrine-disrupting pollutants in the surface waters of southwest Florida estuaries using the E-SCREEN, a short-term, cell culture bioassay that measures the occurrence and abundance of estrogen-mimicking substances by their ability to induce proliferation in estrogen-sensitive, MCF-7 human breast cancer cells. Using this technique, estrogenic activity was detected in multiple sites in the Myakka River, a major tributary of the Charlotte Harbor estuary. Estrogenic substances appear to occur primarily near areas of significant residential development in the lower portions of this river system. Therefore, it is likely that these contaminants enter the Myakka River via input of stormwater runoff and/or unprocessed sewage, perhaps from overburdened or damaged septic systems.
24320194|Chemical results for interstitial water from organic-rich sediments in the Indian River Lagoon, Florida, show a classic picture of biogeochemical reactions in anoxic environments. Interstitial nitrate was depleted throughout the sediment column and complete sulfate reduction was observed at a depth of <9 cm below the seawater-sediment interface. Interstitial water chlorinity decreased sharply with depth suggesting subsurface occurrence or intrusion of groundwater. Ammonia, phosphate and silica concentrations were high showing significant nutrient regeneration. Dissolved sulfide levels were also high and play a primary role in controlling interstitial water metal concentrations.
24319435|Wading birds, including ibises, herons, and storks, which once nested in southern Florida by the millions have decreased because of habitat destruction. A 1974-1975 survey located 41 colonies and 129,800 wading birds nesting in southern Florida. White Ibis and Cattle Egret were most abundant; populations of Great Egrets, Little Blue Herons, Louisiana Herons and Snowy Egrets were lower than expected. Wading birds nested year round but individual species had more circumscribed nesting seasons which differed seasonally and between inland and coastal colonies.
24320771|Nesting densities reported for the Common Moorhen (Gallinula chloropus) in North American wetlands are usually 5.5 pairs per hectare or less. From 1994 through 1996, I studied nesting activity of free-ranging moorhens inhabiting an exhibit of captive aquatic birds at Miami Metrozoo. During peak reproductive periods of all three years, seven to eight pairs or trios of moorhens simultaneously brooded eggs or raised chicks in this 0.4 ha artificial lake, a density equal to 17.5 to 20 pairs/ha. Access to supplemental food probably was responsible for this high nesting density.
24320514|Food habits of two populations of blue tilapia, Oreochromis aureus (Steindachner), in north central Florida were compared for type, amount, and energy of foods consumed. Blue tilapia in Lake Alice consumed mostly diatoms (probably detrital in nature), whereas blue tilapia in Lake George ingested mostly epiphytic green algae and diatoms. Stomach fullness was highest in fall samples and lowest during spawning (March and April) months in both lakes. Total energy values (kilocalories/gram dry weight) were significantly (P<0.05) higher in Lake George than Lake Alice. The relative digestibility of foods was also higher in Lake George, but assimilable energy values were higher in Lake Alice. Blue tilapia appear to maintain populations in thermally suitable habitats with both epiphytic and epipelic sources of algal foods.
24319761|Based upon dietary recall and social questionnaire data from an economically and ethnically heterogeneous sample of elderly women in Dade County, Florida, I examine the relationship between dietary patterns and social involvement, using the concept of Dietary Flaw Number. Implications of the data for the relationship between life satisfaction and nutritional status are suggested.
24319488|The estuarine snake (Nerodia fasciata compressicauda) is an extremely variable mangrove inhabitant which can survive long periods of immersion in sea water (up to 99 da). There is an area of apparent intergradation with the sea water intolerant subspecies N.f. pictiventris on or near Chokoloskee Island in Collier County, Florida. The intergrades varied markedly among each other in coloration, yet all survived for prolonged periods in sea water (at least 30 da). Single litters from this population showed enormous pattern variation, including partially striped morphs very similar to N.f. taeniata from Volusia County, Florida. There are previous records of taeniata-like phenotypes from the Tampa Bay area and Cuba. It appears that N.f. taeniata should be relegated to synonymy with N.f. compressicauda, because neither coloration nor scale characters (numbers of subcaudals) can be used unequivocally as diagnostic characters. The greater frequency of partially striped forms in Volusia County is probably due to the utilization of salt marsh habitat there instead of mangroves. Thus, the superficial resemblance to N.f. clarki can be ascribed to habitat similarities, and not merely to possible contact with west coast salt marsh snakes during Pleistocene submergence of the intervening peninsula.
24320084|The species is reported for the first time from Florida and additional stations are cited for Georgia.
24320579|Actual and presumed predation by the ghost crab on a total of 16 hatchling diamondback terrapin was observed on a barrier island in southern New Jersey in October 1990, 1991 and 1992. Hatchlings are attacked and killed by bites to the head. Feeding starts on the head and typically continues posteriorad until all soft parts, as well as the anterior portions of the shell, are consumed. Predation is probably opportunistic. Hatchlings probably represent only a minor food of the abundant and highly-active crab, but the crab could be a significant source of mortality on the much less abundant hatchlings.
24320774|The origin of nest initiation by lone foundresses in the paper wasp Mischocyttarus mexicanus was investigated. Specifically, the hypothesis that these females are the lone survivors of former sister groups was tested. If this hypothesis were true, lone (haplometrotic) females would be indistinguishable from females that begin nests with sisters (pleometrotic females), especially those pleometrotic females that spend the most time on the nest and are the most likely to survive. Foundress sizes were compared from one population, and it was found that haplometrotic females were larger than high- and low-ranking pleometrotic females. Pleometrotic nests in another population were reduced to form "forced-lone" females; these females were less active than true haplometrotic females. Haplometrotic females also made more foraging trips than forced-lone females while spending an equal amount of time on their nests. These results do not support a sister-mortality hypothesis for haplometrosis but instead suggest that haplometrotis and pleometrosis are the result of two distinct nesting tactics.
24319457|In 1968, 38 marine and freshwater fishes were taken over several months under different conditions of salinity and temperature. The degree of influence of these factors depended upon the species and constancy of salinity and temperature.
24320102|Irrigation of cropland with municipal effluent is presently being practiced on a limited scale. Studies have shown that a number of physical, chemical, and biological processes occur within the soil-water-plant system. Interactions among these processes are discussed and a mathematical framework is described for modeling some of them.
24319727|With the 1940 imagery and past vegetational studies in southern Florida as a base, the vegetation of the Atlantic Coastal Ridge of Broward County is mapped to show Strand, Tropical Hammock, Low Hammock, Mangrove, Swamp, Scrub, Pine Flatwoods, Dry Prairie, Wet Prairie and Marsh. Differences in vegetational types have characteristic species composition, ecology and soils.
24321647|Recent studies have demonstrated that biologically active levels of ecoestrogens, environmental chemicals capable of altering estrogen-regulated processes in aquatic organisms, may be present in surface waters of southwest Florida's Caloosahatchee River Estuary and pose health risks to local wildlife. This study examined the concentrations of estrogenic substances in this river system, with special focus on wastewater-related organic contaminants commonly present in effluent-impacted ecosystems (i.e., natural and synthetic estrogens, detergent metabolites). In addition, the presence of the ecoestrogen biomarker vitellogenin was examined in Caloosahatchee River hogchokers to determine if biological effects resulting from ecoestrogen exposure are present in local wildlife. Analytical measurements conducted on environmental samples obtained by spot sampling and through the use of passive sampling devices demonstrated that natural and synthetic estrogens and the detergent metabolites, nonylphenol and octylphenol, are present at detectable, but low concentrations in incoming effluent and surface waters of the Caloosahatchee basin. Based on these values and the absence of vitellogenin in plasma of Caloosahatchee River hogchokers, these compounds do not appear to pose significant threats to wildlife populations in this river system. Some evidence for increased parasitism by microsporidians in Caloosahatchee River hogchokers was observed, and should be re-evaluated in future studies.
24320470|Infrared spectroscopic procedures annd qualitative chemical tests are used to obtain information concerning the chemical composition of a material possibly black coral or fossil bone found at an archaeological site.
24319480|Eastern woodrat occurs throughout southeastern United States in suitable forested habitats but in Florida, woodrats previously have been reported inland only from northern counties. I found woodrats occurring in at least disjunct populations throughout southcentral Florida as far south as DeSoto County.
24320427|This note reports the presence of a South American catfish in the Hillsborough River, Hillsborough County, Florida. Although loricariid catfishes have been reported from the Tampa Bay area for several decades, until recently they had not been documented from the Hillsborough River drainage. The construction of a new canal system may have allowed ingress of Pterygoplichthys cf. multiradiatus into the Hillsborough River proper. A brief morphological description of three specimens is presented. Future research into the biological and ecological impacts of this algae-feeding armored catfish is strongly recommended.
24319988|The potential therapeutic value of ascorbic acid in facilitating the recovery from oral surgery is investigated through the computerized statistical analysis of clinical and demographic data on 452 consecutive tooth extraction patients who visited a dental clinic in Miami, Florida. The 277 patients who were prescribed vitamin C post-surgically exhibited significantly more rapid healing than the 175 control subjects who received none. The incidence of alveolalgia ("dry socket"), a painful and troublesome extraction complication, was over five times lower in the sub-sample receiving vitamin C. Age, sex, occupation and health history were not statistically correlated with healing rates. Recent research indicates that ascorbic acid might enhance dental healing by stimulating the immune system and hastening the proper formation of scar tissue.
24321585|Three scrub oak species, common among the pyrogenic scrubby flatwoods of Highlands County, Florida, were examined with regard to investment in herbivore defense and corresponding defensive strategies. Leaves of Quercus chapmanii, Q. inopina, and Q. geminata were analyzed for tannin activity, toughness, and insect herbivory along a gradient of various times since fire, ranging from recently burned (1 year prior) to long unburned (20 years prior). A significant inverse correlation was found between investment in leaf tannin activity and leaf toughness, indicating that species investing largely in tannin activity (Q. chapmanii) do not invest as much in leaf toughness. Conversely, we observed the least tannin activity in the toughest leaves (Q. geminata). The third species in this study, Q. inopina, invested moderately in both defense methods, indicating that each oak species has evolved a unique herbivore defense strategy. Insect herbivory was less variable, but Q. chapmanii did have a greater percentage of insect damaged leaves, which may be a consequence of its greater investment in acorn production than the other two species. We observed no effect of time since fire on defensive investment in any species, indicating that if fire does affect defense production in scrub oaks, its effect is short lived.
24321200|Previous work has established the possibility of utilizing known ion exchange resins and known chelating and coordinating agents that were supported on materials such as silica gel. These studies revealed the utility of these materials in the removal of heavy metals such as lead, silver, copper and nickel from aqueous media. Montmorillonite KSF has been commonly used as an ion-exchange material in the removal of heavy metals from standard solutions. In the present study, montmorillonite KSF was modified using azeotropic distillation to condense 2-mercaptoethanol with the clay material. The resulting product was used as a coordinating agent to remove copper(II), cadmium(II), silver(I), nickel(II) and lead(II) ions from standard aqueous solutions. Without adjusting the pH, better than 90% of the metal ions could be removed. Application to other solid substrates has been considered and is pending.
24321813|We conducted a mark-recapture study of the turtle assemblage inhabiting a 1.1 km reach of the Santa Fe River within River Rise Preserve State Park in northern Florida during drought conditions in 2006 and 2007. In 154 man-hours of snorkeling, we hand-captured eight species, including two Florida listed Species of Special Concern  the Suwannee Cooter (Pseudemys concinna) and Alligator Snapping Turtle (Macrochelys temminckii). Species diversity (Shannon H) and species evenness (Pielou J) were 1.23 and 0.59, respectively. The most abundant species was P. concinna, comprising 54.5% of all individuals captured and 77.9% of the total assemblage biomass. Biomass of the entire assemblage was estimated to be 199.8 kg/ha. This is the first detailed description of a turtle assemblage occurring in a blackwater stream habitat in the southeastern United States.
24320032|The distributions of all 25 turtle species recorded from Florida (including 17 freshwater, five marine, one estuarine, and two terrestrial species) are mapped and reviewed. Freshwater turtle species density in Florida is among the highest in the world, with 13 species known to co-occur in the Escambia River, and possibly also in the Apalachicola, Wakulla, and Suwannee river basins. Although at least eight exotic species have been introduced into Florida, the only confirmed breeding populations of non-native forms are of Trachemys scripta elegans.
24321027|Trace elements and organic contaminants in bottom-sediment samples collected from 10 sites on the Barron River Canal and from one site on the Turner River in October 1998 had patterns of distribution that indicated different sources. At some sites on the Barron River Canal, lead, copper, and zinc, normalized to aluminum, exceeded limits normally considered as background and may be enriched by human activities. Polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbons and p-cresol, normalized against organic carbon, had patterns of distribution that indicated local sources of input from a road or vehicular traffic or from an old creosote wood treatment facility. Phthalate esters and the trace elements arsenic, cadmium, and zinc were more widely distributed with the highest normalized concentrations occurring at the Turner River background site, probably due to the high percentage of fine sediment (74 % less than 63 micrometers) and high organic carbon concentration (42 %) at that site and the binding effect of organic carbon on trace elements and trace organic compounds. Low concentrations of pesticides or pesticide degradation products were detected in bottom sediment (DDD and DDE, each less than 3.5 g/kg) and water (9 pesticides, each less than 0.06 /L), primarily in the northern reach of the Barron River Canal where agriculture is a likely source. Although a few contaminants approached criteria that would indicate adverse effects on aquatic life, none exceeded the criteria, but the potential synergistic effects of mixtures of contaminants found at most sites are not included in the criteria.
24319497|Subgenus Hydrocallis of the Nymphaeaceae has not previously been reported to occur in the United States. Its species are night-flowering waterlilies native to South America. Two of these species are now known to have occurred in apparently natural situations in peninsular Florida. Nymphaea blanda G. F. W. Meyer is cited from two stations in Citrus and Levy counties, and Nymphaea jamesoniana Planchon is cited for DeSoto County. A key separates these and other Nymphaea in Florida.
24320308|The Old World species, Hygrophila polysperma (Acanthaceae) is reported for the first time as naturalized in Florida. Synonymy, description, and distribution in Florida are given. The species is illustrated.
24321233|Florida Keys locality records for the moths Eupseudosoma involutum floridum (Arctiidae), Acrolophus popeanellus (Acrolophidae), Spoladea recurvalis (Crambidae), Spodoptera dolichos (Noctuidae), Adaina ambrosiae, A. perplexus, A. simplicius, Exelastis montischristi, Hellinsia unicolor, Lantanophaga pusillidactylla, Lioptilodes parvus, Megalorhipida leucodactylus, Stenoptilodes brevipennis, S. taprobanes (Pterophoridae), Parachma ochracealis (Pyralidae), and Protambulyx carteri (Sphingidae) are presented.
24321864|The Southwest Florida Frog Monitoring Network was established in 2000 to collect long-term data on frog communities of the region. Routes of 10-12 stops were monitored monthly during the rainy season (JuneSeptember). Data on all frog calls during a three minute period were recorded using a three-level intensity code. We report results from the first ten years of monitoring to examine broad trends in the frog populations of southwest Florida. We explored the abundance of all frog species, as reflected by calling intensity, to elucidate potential factors that may influence long-term changes in frog populations and communities. These factors may include: natural variations of frog populations, disappearing and altered habitats through local and global human actions, landscape context, and the impacts of invasive species. At a regional scale, it appears that most frog species are maintaining natural variations in calling levels among years, suggesting that frogs are responding to annual variation and not regional or global changes. Use of behavioral indicators, such as calling intensity of frogs, may provide understanding of the environmental implications of altered hydroperiods and other landscape perturbations in our watershed and possibly some positive responses to restoration efforts.
24321452|Results from this laboratory experiment indicate that the goldfish (Carassius auratus L.) is able to persist in low-salinity environments (10 ppt) for long periods of time and at higher salinities for short time periods. When acutely shifted from fresh water to low-salinity conditions (515 ppt) the species is capable of survival for at least 72 h. However, acute transfer to salinities of 2025 ppt lead to 100% mortality by 8 h. Under chronic low-salinity conditions, the goldfish showed high levels of survival at salinities of 5 and 10 ppt, but significant mortality at salinities of 15 and 20 ppt. A newly developed variety of goldfish (black salty) was nearly equivalent to standard goldfish in its salinity tolerance.
24321985|Ecological factors that influence terricolous lichen distributions in xeric scrub were investigated in the Jacksonville Arboretum and Gardens, northeastern Florida, USA. Cover of mat-forming lichens Cladonia subtenuis and Cladonia evansii (referred to as Cladonia spp.) was recorded from three xeric scrub habitats: open and sandy Ceratiola scrub, closed-canopy Quercus scrub with ground cover of leaf litter, and transitional Ceratiola-scrub areas surrounded by Quercus scrub. Changes in Cladonia spp. cover were compared among plots that differed in ground cover (sand, leaf litter, and undisturbed plots) located within the three scrub habitats for one year. Changes in lichen biomass and physical characteristics of the environment were recorded for nine months in the three habitats. Lichen cover was greatest in the transitional habitat (43.0  7.4%) as compared to the Quercus scrub (12.3  4.3%) and Ceratiola scrub (5.6  1.9%). Irradiance and wind velocities were greatest in the Ceratiola scrub and lowest in the Quercus scrub. Increases in cover and thallus biomass were greatest in the transitional habitat. Lichen cover decreased by 79.8  9.2% in the sand plots. Excessive irradiance and thallus displacement likely contributed to the low cover and biomass in the Ceratiola scrub. Shady conditions in the Quercus scrub may negatively affect Cladonia species. Prevention of canopy closure would maintain terricolous lichen cover in the xeric scrub community.
24321584|A study of the zooplankton communities of the Middle St. John's River basin was conducted to explore spatial and temporal trends in distribution. Zooplankton was collected on a monthly basis, from October 2003 through September 2005, using horizontal plankton tows (80 m mesh and 15 cm diameter) in 5 lakes and 4 river sections in the basin. A total of 35 rotifer, 11 cladoceran and 4 copepod taxa were identified. Some taxa were commonly observed at all sampling sites, including the cladoceran Bosmina longirostris, the rotifers Brachionus havanensis, Keratella cochlearis, and Polyarthra vulgaris, and both calanoid and cyclopoid copepods. Seasonally, copepods were most abundant between April and September, while cladocerans exhibited peak abundances in the fall. From an inter-annual perspective, peak abundances of both groups were higher during the second year of the project than the first, possibly due to the high incidence of intense summer storms in the first year. Spatially, lake sites generally had greater zooplankton abundances than river sites. Among the lakes, Lake Jesup had significantly greater zooplankton abundance than lakes Harney, Monroe, Ashby, and Norris.
24321798|The effect of kitten births on home range dynamics have been documented for other felid species; however, not for the Florida panther. Understanding home range dynamics of the Florida panther, especially female panthers, can aid land mangers in decisions to conduct management activities when panthers are present in management areas. Furthermore, understanding of home range processes will advance scientific knowledge and aid in the ultimate goal of recovery for the Florida panther. This study documents the changes in home ranges of female panthers in response to the birth and eventual dispersal of kittens using radio telemetry data in combination with panther den and kitten data in a GIS frame work. The home ranges of female panthers significantly contracted and shifted in response to the production of kittens. In addition, overall home range size was not affected by the birth and dispersal of young, which has been reported in other felid studies.
24321645|Fish communities of the Peace River were assessed by standardized boat electrofishing during 2005  2006 and compared to historic sampling that occurred during 1983  1992. Four non-native species Pterygoplichthys multiradiatus, P. disjunctivus, Hoplosternum littorale, and Hemichromis letourneuxi became established since 1991, and Pterygoplichthys spp. was the most numerically-abundant species in 2006. Abundance and biomass of two non-native species that were established during the historic period, Oreochromis aureus and Clarias batrachus, decreased. Extirpation of native species since the historic period was not documented. Species richness and diversity between the historic and recent periods were stable, but changes in fish community structure as determined from multivariate analysis were apparent. Extreme flooding and three months of hypoxia following three major hurricanes in 2004 greatly affected species composition, but evidence that the community had substantially recovered by 2006 may indicate ecological resilience. These baseline assessments and continued sampling may be useful to document biological changes due to environmental degradation and restoration projects, evaluating minimum flows and levels, understanding short- and long-term impacts of major hurricanes and droughts, and documenting ecological impacts of non-native fishes.
24321403|Exotic freshwater fishes are a high profile environmental issue. This paper updates information related to exotic freshwater fishes in Florida. Currently, 34 exotic freshwater fishes are listed as reproducing in Florida waters, of which 23 are established (i.e., permanent), two have localized populations, and nine are possibly established (i.e., reproducing but permanence questionable). In addition to these, 14 other exotic freshwater fishes previously known to be reproducing have disappeared or been intentionally eradicated.
24320147|The social unit of Nycticeius humeralis is a group of philopatric females that mates with a smaller, stable group of males. Young males disperse from the natal roost. Nondispersal of young females leads to matrilineal recruitment. Nursery populations thus appear to be kin groups in which kin selection could occur. Neonatal sex ratio is biased toward males. The two sexes of adults differ in their investment in parental care and in the variation in their reproductive success. These patterns are consistent with a model of natural selection of parental ability to vary the sex ratio of offspring.
24319902|This study was initiated to investigate the compound(s) of Ptychodiscus brevis toxin (PBTX) that causes contraction of canine tracheal smooth muscle. The components of PBTX were separated by reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) using a chloroform-methanol linear solvent gradient system. Purified PBTX fractions were tested for neurological activity (as measured by canine tracheal smooth muscle contraction) and hemolytic activity (as measured by kinetics of hemolysis of canine blood cells in a blood-buffer solution). Chemical analysis was conducted to determine the structure of the neurologically active compound of PBTX. The neurological activity of crude PBTX was enhanced by HPLC purification. A 6-fold increase in neurological activity was observed after the first HPLC purification, while a 75-fold increase in neurological activity was demonstrated after the second HPLC purification as compared to crude PBTX. Three primary peaks were observed in the HPLC chromatogram: one (PBTX-2a) had neurological activity, a second (PBTX-1) had hemolytic activity, and a third (PBTX-2b) did not have neurologic or hemolytic activity. In addition, tachyphylaxis (rapidly developing tolerance) occurred in canine tracheal smooth muscle repetitively exposed to PBTX-2a, which was found to have a molecular weight of about 900 daltons and an ultraviolet absorption maximum of 208 mn. These chemical characteristics were observed for an eleven member transfused ether ring compound that was neurologically active and whose structure was elucidated by previous researchers.
24321482|The natural hydrological system of the Loxahatchee River's Northwest Fork has been altered in less than 50 years, resulting in a significant shift from freshwater to more saltwater tolerant vegetation. From an initial transect survey in 1967 to the present time; one research location best demonstrates the collective changes in species composition along a topographic gradient from the edge of the uplands through the floodplain to the river's edge. In 1967, with freshwater vegetation still present, there was already evidence of salinity impacts as approximately 67% of the cypress trees had died. Nearly 40 years later, the vegetation along this transect is now dominated by white mangroves. Recent hurricanes in 2004 have significantly impacted the white mangrove community. Saltwater intrusion along the river is directly the result of diminished flows over the past 50 years.
24321464|There are few reports regarding the occurrence and distribution of higher filamentous marine fungi on mangroves in South Florida. Previous studies have demonstrated that marine fungi are an important degradative component and assume an important role in nutrient recycling systems in estuarine and near-shore ecosystems. The purpose was to study the occurrence of higher filamentous fungi colonizing Rhizophora mangle and associated driftwood in J. U. Lloyd State Park on the southeast coast of Florida, USA. Over a fourteen-month period, 33 species were collected including 1 Basidiomycota, 9 Deuteromycota, and 23 Ascomycota. The predominant species, by frequency of identifications from collections, included the Ascomycota, Halorosellinia oceanica, Leptosphaeria australiensis, Lulworthia grandispora, and Sagaaromyces glitra as well as the Deuteromycete Trichocladium alopallonellum. Massarina velatospora is reported for the first time in the Atlantic/Caribbean region and Lineolata rhizophorae is reported as new to Florida. A new host record for Phaeosphaeria gessneri occurring on R. mangle is reported. Overall, the marine mycota of South Florida appears to be very similar to that found in other tropical and subtropical regions.
24319708|Shallow-water (12-37 m) eastern Gulf of Mexico reef biotas suffered damage during the exceptionally cold winters of 1977 and 1978. Certain fishes were killed or sustained injury either directly from the cold or from physical abrasion against the reef during heavy bottom surge accompanying cold front passage. Reef corals were overturned or torn from their reef attachment during periods of heavy bottom surge. Recovery time for these impacts is not known.
24319901|Effects of season of prescribed burning and time elapsed since last burn on herbaceous biomass and species composition, root carbohydrate and nitrogen content, and southeastern pocket gopher (Geomys pinetis) mounding activity and body condition were examined on a sandhill community. Treatments included late-winter and late-summer burns in 1983, 1984, and 1985, and an unburned control. Post-burn data collected in the fall of 1985 showed no significant differences (P>0.05) for total biomass of aboveground herbaceous vegetation. Aboveground biomass of grasses was higher than forb biomass for all treatments. Forb biomass was lowest on the unburned control. Shannon diversity indices were consistently lower on unburned than on burned treatments. Carbohydrate levels in roots of selected herbaceous species collected from each treatment in the winter of 1986 were variable and no significant differences (P>0.05) were detected. Nitrogen levels in roots tended to be higher on unburned than on burned treatments. Mounding activity varied widely both among and within treatments and ranged from 0.73 to 5.19 mounds produced per day during the winter of 1986. No significant correlation between mounding activity and carbohydrate or nitrogen levels of selected plants was detected. No significant differences (P>0.05) were detected in weight: body length ratios of pocket gophers among treatments during late winter-early spring.
24320398|There has been no ontogenetic study of conifer ovuliferous scale development. This information is important for interpreting and understanding the fossil record of conifers and their ancestry. Mature and juvenile stages of seed cones and their fragments are found isolated in ancient sediments. Therefore, this ontogenetic study of cone scales in Pinus elliottii Engelm. (Diploxylon Section, Pinaceae) was initiated with special emphasis on the development of two prominent scale features; the apophysis and umbo. In this species, the two structures do not develop until the cone's second year of growth, and during all subsequent stages, they are broader than they are thick. Furthermore, the dorsal umbo develops and matures before the apophysis.
24319812|Eigenvector analysis of Palmer Drought Index values for southeastern United States for 1931-79 reveals that the 1930s and 1950s experienced the most significant droughts. Generally, the dry conditions in the Southeast were less severe than those of the Midwest at the same time. The 1971-79 period was significantly wetter than normal in nearly all of the Southeast. Moisture conditions in south-central and southern Florida are generally out of phase with the remainder of southeastern United States.
24319429|Variously colored Floy anchor tags were applied to 30,510 adult white shrimp, Penaeus setiferus, from the Cape Fear River, North Carolina, to note shrimp movements and distances traveled, and the feasibility, physical effects, color bias, and retention of the tags. Movements were southerly for 575 km to near Jekyll Island, Georgia, during late fall and winter. The tags caused no physical damage or impediment to the shrimp's swimming or burrowing ability; color did not bias the tag returns. Tag retention observations were conducted in the field as well as with aquarium held shrimp. Tag retention was as long as 7 mo and through 2 molts.
24320330|Meteorological records and water temperatures are used to describe annual variations in the heat budget of the Indian River lagoon, on the Atlantic coast of Florida. In the summer of 1979, water temperatures varied 1-2C about the seasonal norm over time scales of about 1 wk. Heat stored in the lagoon was highly correlated with net insolation, net outgoing longwave radiation and sensible heat fluxes. In the winter of 1979-80, warming and cooling cycles varied temperatures  3-4C about the norm, and the storage term was significantly correlated with only the sensible and latent heat fluxes.
24320258|Recent findings in teleosts indicate that an area of the hypothalamus (subglomerular area and periventricular zone of the inferior lobe) is involved in the regulation of feeding. The results are based on experiments utilizing brain stimulation, lesion and recording techniques. At least in goldfish, neurons in this area are preferentially activated by olfactory and gustatory input. Comparative anatomical studies suggest that a similar and probably homologous area is present in the shark hypothalamus and feeding activity has been elicited by electrical stimulation of this area in free-swimming nurse sharks. Although the direct evidence in elasmobranchs is still meager, it seems likely that the shark inferior lobe is also involved in the control of feeding. The indication from studies in teleosts, that this region is sensitive to olfactory stimuli, is consistent with frequent observations that many sharks and teleosts can be strongly aroused to feed in response to certain chemical stimuli.
24320960|Florida scrub is disappearing throughout its range. Brevard County contains regionally important scrub ecosystems; these support some of the largest remaining populations of the Florida Scrub-Jay (Aphelocoma coerulescens) and other species of conservation concern. Scrub in Brevard County is distributed across five distinct landscapes: Cape Canaveral and the outer barrier island, Merritt Island, the Atlantic Coastal Ridge, the Ten Mile Ridge, and the Osceola Plain Ridge. These landscapes differ in geologic history, topography, elevation, and soils. Scrub vegetation differs across these landscapes. Coastal strand and scrub occur on Cape Canaveral and the outer barrier island. Sand pine scrub occurs primarily on the Atlantic Coastal Ridge. Oak scrub and scrubby flatwoods are common on Merritt Island, the Atlantic Coastal Ridge, and the Ten Mile Ridge but also occur on the western side of Cape Canaveral. Distributions of rare scrub plants differ across these landscapes. Cereus gracilis var. simpsonii (prickly apple), Chamaesyce cumulicola (sand dune spurge), Glandularia maritima (coastal vervain), Lantana depressa var. floridana (Atlantic Coast Florida lantana), and Tephrosia angustissima var. curtissii (coastal hoary-pea) occur in coastal scrub of Cape Canaveral or the outer barrier island. Dicerandra thinicola is found only in a small area of the Atlantic Coastal Ridge. Conradina grandiflora (large-flowered rosemary) occurs on the Atlantic Coastal Ridge and the Ten Mile Ridge. Rare scrub fauna also occur differently across these landscapes. The Florida Scrub-Jay, Gopherus polyphemus (gopher tortoise), and Drymarchon corias couperi (eastern indigo snake) occur on Cape Canaveral, Merritt Island, the Atlantic Coastal Ridge, and the Ten Mile Ridge. Pituophis melanoleucus mugitus (Florida pine snake) is known from Cape Canaveral, Merritt Island, and the Atlantic Coastal Ridge. Podomys floridanus (Florida mouse) and Rana capito aesopus (Florida gopher frog) occur on Merritt Island and the Atlantic Coastal Ridge. Sceloporus woodi (Florida scrub lizard) and Tantilla relicta neilli (Florida crowned snake) occur on the Atlantic Coastal Ridge. Federally-owned areas of scrub (4,455.9 ha) are found within Kennedy Space Center/Merritt Island National Wildlife Refuge (1,559.2 ha) and Cape Canaveral Air Station (2,896.7 ha). The remaining scrub of the Atlantic Coastal Ridge (4,436.0 ha), the Ten Mile Ridge (592.0 ha), and the southern end of the outer barrier island (382.4 ha) is the focus of county and state scrub conservation efforts. Fire suppression and landscape fragmentation have degraded scrub habitat throughout the county. Intensive management through prescribed burning and restoration are needed to ensure the survival of scrub ecosystems and species.
24319930|Two West Indian manatees (Trichechus manatus) were observed 61 km northeast of the Dry Tortugas Islands, a location not normally considered to be part of the species' range. When spotted, the animals were swimming in a southwesterly direction, away from Florida. Observations such as this, of manatees far from freshwater, raise the question of whether manatees require regular access to freshwater for osmoregulation, as suggested in the literature.
24320982|If current global warming projections are accurate, Florida's climate will be altered significantly. Fifty years from now, Florida will be hotter, wetter, and have more flooding, more hurricanes, and more tropical diseases. A proposal has been made that may reduce the rate of global warming.
24320611|Twenty-nine taxa of silica-scaled Chyrsophyceae and Synurophyceae are reported from the spring flora of two relatively eutrophic and humic stained lakes, Lower Lake Myakka and Lake Tarpon. Samples from 1986, 1987, 1989 and 1992 were analyzed. Twenty-seven and fifteen of the taxa were found in Lower Lake Myakka and Lake Tarpon, respectively. Affinities with tropical and temperate floras are noted in both lakes. This represents the first report of Synura petersenii f. truttae Siver and S. australiensis Playfair in Florida, and the second report of the latter taxon in the United States.
24321268|A review of available amphibian and reptile distributional records for 14 of the Georgia Sea Islands indicates 70 species are represented on these islands. These include 17 anurans, 8 caudates, the alligator, 11 lizards, 23 snakes, and 11 turtles. Examination of the records of 17 archaeological sites on three islands indicates numerous species previously present on these islands but for which there is no contemporary documentation. As a group, the islands of Pleistocene origin have a higher species richness of amphibians and reptiles compared to younger Holocene islands. Regression analysis of species richness against island size is highly significant, but species richness regressed against distance from mainland and distance from nearest neighbor island indicated no significant relationships. Species richness was significantly related to qualitative assessments of the amount of study islands have received but not to qualitative assessments of human impact. Multiple stepwise analysis based on size and study improved significance and goodness of fit values for regressions. Although this paper represents the most detailed summary of the current knowledge of herpetofaunal distributions on the Georgia sea islands, our knowledge of the bioeography of the islands is far from complete.
24320212|Supplemental vitamin D3 levels of 200, 400, 800 and 1600 ICU and sludge levels of 0, 5, 10 and 15% were fed in 2 experiments to broiler chicks (age 1-21 da) to determine if iron or other heavy metals contained in the sludge destroyed vitamin D3 and depressed performance. Adding vitamin D3 to the diet did not offset the depressing effect of sludge feeding upon body weight. Tibia ash data were not significantly influenced by adding sludge. The highest level of vitamin D3 supplementation did significantly improve tibia ash. We conclude that the adverse effects of sludge addition were not related to vitamin D3 destruction.
24320302|Population characteristics of Procyon lotor marinus were studied in estuarine mangrove swamps of southwestern Florida. Of 497 raccoons captured, 297 were tagged and released, and 200 were used for necropsy or other studies. The population was characterized by lack of a sharply-defined breeding season and relatively low rates of reproduction and turnover. Breeding extended from March through August with births occurring from May through October. Mean litter size was 2.87. Densities were estimated to range from 2.2-6.5/km2 and generally were highest in fall and winter. Adults made up 69 % of the raccoons captured, subadults 20 %, and immatures ( 30 wk) 11%. Sex ratios favored males in all age classes.
24322347|St. Elmo Brady was the first African-American to earn a Ph.D. in chemistry in the United States, and he had a considerable influence on the development of chemistry at Fisk University and the training of young African-American students at four historically black colleges or universities (HBCUs). The amount of information about him seems to be fairly diffuse, and he deserves much more attention  the degree he earned, how he got to graduate school, the postdoctoral years, the retirement years, and his contributions.
24320423|This illustrated key to the crayfishes of Florida is offered to accompany the update of the crayfishes of the state compiled by Richard and Shelley Franz (1990). Fifty-five species and subspecies are included herein, and those couplets of the key that might prove to be troublesome contain references to figures that we hope will be helpful.
24320648|The complexation between the divalent calcium cation (Ca2+) and the polyelectrolyte humic acid (HA) was studied by a potentiometric titration technique using a calcium ion-selective electrode. Thermodynamic titrations were conducted at an ionic strength of 0.1 (NaCl), temperatures of 20, 25, 30, 35, and 40 C, and a pH of 6.0. The pKa of the humic acid was determined to be 4.43. The total carboxylate capacity of the humic acid was determined to be 8.62 meq/g. Using data obtained in these titrations, the thermodynamic parameters (G, H, and S) of the complexation were determined. The use of a Ca-ISE is a simpler, cleaner technique compared to past work done with radiotracers and solvent extraction.
24321160|We collected data on the location of termitaria (nest-sites) of the tree termite species Nasutitermes costalis at the La Milpa Field Station in northern Belize. N. costalis are ecologically relevant in Central America as decomposers in forest ecosystems and recently (late 1990s) have become an economic concern to land managers in southern Florida as an invasive pest species. Nests were non-uniformly distributed around nest-trees (Rayleigh's Test; Z = 4.69; 0.01 < P > 0.005). Mean angle of termitaria placement was 10 (approximately north-northeast). 40% (n = 30) of the nests we measured were found at the base of the nest tree with all others located <1 m from the forest floor. We conclude that N. costalis prefer to place termitaria on the shaded, northern side of trees instead of the sun-exposed, southern side, presumably for water conservation and/or thermoregulation. Previous research has documented other adaptations for water conservation and thermoregulation in termites; however, we are aware of no other study that documents a preference for northern aspects in nest trees. We believe that entomologists and pest control specialists in Florida may find these results useful for locating, monitoring, and eradicating this invasive pest species.
24321591|Passiflora incarnata plants produce extrafloral nectar that is attractive to ants which, in turn, can act as predators to herbivorous insects. There is a potential cost to protection via ants, as the reproductive success of plants can be reduced if ants remove floral nectar. We asked whether floral nectar and/or floral tissues contain a chemical that would deter ant visitation. In a Petri dish, we allowed individuals from each of two ant species (Camponotus floridana and Pseudomyrmex gracilis) to choose among three nectar solutions (extrafloral nectar (EN), floral nectar (FN), and floral nectar with extract from floral tissues (FN+FE)). In addition, ants of each species were placed into individual Petri dishes in which we spread macerated floral tissue over one half of the top and bottom and distilled water over the other half. When given a choice of nectar types, neither ant species demonstrated a preference for EN over FN, but both tended to avoid FN+FE. In addition, ants spent an average of less than one out of 10 minutes walking within the side of a Petri dish containing floral extract. Our results demonstrate that P. incarnata flowers produce a chemical in tissues, but not in floral nectar, that can deter ant visitors.
24319780|I present various methods explored and utilized for teaching folklore on the sixth grade level and the actual results obtained from an AAIP internship at the Williams Elementary School, Tampa, Florida. The study is ethnographic in nature and deals with the training of 260 six graders in the basics of both folklore collection and archiving. The scope of the project included the use of the collected material as a vehicle for teaching values clarification and the anthropological perspective, and utilizing the basic fieldwork techniques as a methodology for addressing the basic problem of student anomie.
24320513|We experimentally investigated the colonization of artificial reefs by fish and motile invertebrates in the Halifax River lagoon system. The reefs were composed of glued stacks of 60 cm long pieces of PVC pipe. Four reefs of each of three sizes (internal volumes of 1800, 3600 and 6030 cm3) were placed in 1 m deep water from February 1990 to January 1991. The organisms in the reefs were sampled in spring (17 April 1990), summer (9 June 1990), fall (10 November 1990), and winter (7 January 1991). The number of colonists, species richness, and species diversity were significantly higher in larger reefs. These parameters, however, did not increase as fast as reef volume. The small reefs had significantly higher species richness per unit volume than the medium and large reefs. Reef size did not significantly affect the density of colonists. Size-independent aspects of artificial reefs, such as shape, are therefore likely to be more important than size in determining ideal reef design.
24320441|Five species of butterflies (four skippers, one nymphalid) are reported for the first time from the island of Montserrat.
24319496|A detailed gravimetric survey of Alachua County, Florida, consisting of over 250 occupied stations, reveals Bouguer anomaly values ranging from -17 milligals to +5 milligals. Two gravity base stations were located on the University of Florida campus in Gainesville and near the town of Archer. Anomaly patterns, based on one milligal contours, contribute additional fine structure to the existing statewide gravity anomaly map and demonstrate a large gradient leading to a low anomaly in northwestern Alachua County. In contrast, the eastern half is characterized by broadly spaced rambling contours progressing to a high anomaly. The general trend of the anomalies is northeast-southwest, which is congruous with the dominant large-scale Bouguer anomaly pattern for north peninsular Florida.
24320425|Data on the physical characteristics, vegetation, geographic location, and areal coverage of the coastal impoundments in east-central Florida are presented. There are 195 impoundments in the region, covering over 16,000 ha of coastal wetlands. Vegetation in the impoundments is diverse; mangroves predominate in the southern impoundments while herbaceous halophytes predominate in the northern ones. Approximately 3,600 ha of these impoundments are unvegetated, whereas mangroves cover close to 4,000 ha and other halophytic species 4,300 ha. Management of the impoundments varies from none to complex schemes that address not only mosquito control problems but also natural resource and habitat quality interests. Nearly 4,500 ha of impounded wetlands in the Merritt Island National Wildlife Refuge are flooded year-round for waterfowl management, whereas 2,857 ha are under Rotational Impoundment Management (RIM). Present and future management strategies for these impoundments are discussed.
24321407|The effect of the macrostomal-cell inducing ligand, stomatin, on intracellular calcium concentration in Tetrahymena vorax was examined using the cell permeable fluorescent indicator Calcium Orange/AM. Intracellular calcium concentration began to increase within approximately four minutes following stomatin addition to cells that had been pre-loaded with the calcium probe. Intracellular calcium levels continued to rise for at least 20 minutes. Cells incubated for 45 minutes with 100 M aminoethoxydiphenylborate prior to the addition of stomatin showed no increase in intracellular calcium levels. These results, in combination with previously published data, suggest that the increase in calcium concentration in response to stomatin constitutes an important step in the transmembrane signaling pathway that leads to the development of the macrostomal phenotype in Tetrahymena vorax.
24320288|A survey of 165 lakes located in different geologic and physiographic regions was conducted to determine sodium and chloride concentrations. Sodium concentrations in the lakes ranged from 1.2 to 1200 mg/l and chloride concentrations ranged from 1.7 to 2300 mg/l. A general increase in concentrations occurs from northwest to southeast Florida. Highest concentrations are found in the lakes of the middle and lower St. Johns River and in coastal lagoon lakes.
24320782|At least 7 species of woodpeckers have been recorded to feed on lizards. This observation of a red-bellied woodpecker feeding on a green anole is the first reported record for this species. This lizard might be a more common food item for this bird than is realized.
24320333|The algal planktonic species from the Indian River near Vero Beach, Florida are presented as a check-list. Two-hundred-and-thirty species representing 68 genera of diatoms were observed. Twenty species of dinoflagellates from 9 genera are also listed from a year's collection. Scant information is available on the species of phytoplankton of the Indian River. Only cursory examinations of this flora were made as parts of larger ecological studies, by Stephens (1974, 1975) and David (1978). Stephens and Gibson (1979, 1980 a, b, c) have examined several epiphytic species of the diatom genus Mastogloia from the Indian River, yet the phytoplanktonic flora was still undescribed.
24319460|From 1-17 polychaete worms were found in association with each of 14 sponges distributed among 8 genera.
24319572|Mild acid hydrolysis of yeast phase Histoplasma capsulatum cell walls yielded precipitin-reactive material in the supernates of hydrolysis. Three distinct bands were present at various times by means of double diffusion in agar gel employing rabbit anti-H. capsulatum antiserum. Band I was acid-labile, while bands 2 and 3 were acid-stable. All 3 bands were removed from the walls early in the hydrolysis. Precipitin-reactive material was found to be different from fluorescent and hemagglutinating antibody-reactive material.
24321036|A study was conducted by dipnet to compare community structure and abundance of major taxa of epifauna among Halodule wrightii, Thalassia testudinum, Syringodium filiforme, drift algae, and unvegetated bottom in Tarpon Bay, Sanibel, FL. Sampling was conducted roughly once per week from January, 1999, through January, 2000. Samples from unvegetated bottom contained a significantly lower average number of total organisms than any of the four macrophytes. On average, gastropods were the most abundant taxa collected from each species of seagrass, caridean shrimps were the most abundant taxa collected from drift algae, and mysids were the most abundant taxa collected from unvegetated bottom. Among the five habitats, Halodule contained the highest average number of gastropods, mysids and pink shrimp, Farfantopenaeus duorarum. Thalassia contained the highest average number of pagurid crabs and syngnathid fish. Drift algae contained the highest average number of amphipods, caridean shrimps, and the isopod, Harrieta faxoni. For each macrophyte, regression did not reveal consistent relationships between abundances of major taxa, salinity, or percent macrophyte cover. Community composition differed significantly among all five habitats. Numbers of specimens from major taxa were generally found in greater abundance in summer than in winter.
24319653|We studied the effect of a postbloom malathion:copper spray and a summer oil, methidathion, benomyl and chlorobenzilate spray on the populations of important commercial citrus pests found on urban citrus trees. The spray program lowered the percentage of leaves infested with citrus rust mite, Phyllocoptruta oleivora (Ashm.), and significantly lowered the total number of scale insects present from June-November on foliage of treated trees. Overall, the population dynamics of pests on treated and untreated trees proceeded as if these pests were in a commercial grove, rather than on urban citrus trees. Major differences, however, existed in the status of the various phytophagous species in the urban versus the grove environment. Because tree appearance is of paramount importance to urban homeowners, the important pests are those that impair the tree's aesthetic beauty rather than those that reduce fruit yield or quality. The important urban pests are aphids, whitefly adults and sooty mold, while the major pests of commercial citruscitrus rust mites and greasy spot disease Myosphaerella citri Whitesideare considered of little importance by the homeowner.
24320417|The killifish Rivulus marmoratus (Poey) uses the active and abandoned burrows of the great land crab Cardisoma guanhumi as its primary micro-habitat in the salt marshes of Indian River County, Florida. Over 250 specimens have been captured from burrows, and a maximum of 26 individuals was found in a single burrow, thus representing one of the largest single-point collections recorded in Florida. At higher elevations in the marsh, the fish may be confined to burrows for up to 9 months, but a repertoire of behaviors, documented through laboratory and field observations, allows survival in this specialized environment. The importance of land crab burrows in the life cycle of this fish reinforces the need for habitat protection of both species.
24320300|The elements of a hazardous waste management program are outlined and discussed relative to a lightly industralized region in Florida. Several factors are included such as recognition and quantification of the problem, choosing a management approach, definition of treatment/disposal methods, consideration of environmental impacts, creation of emergency reaction teams, and providing for monitoring and enforcement. Hazardous wastes may result not only from large industries, but also from small businesses from the transportation, health care, research, and consumer sectors of the economy. As a group, these other sources may contribute significantly to a region's overall hazardous waste problem. Any program for managing hazardous wastes must recognize the greatly diverse and complex nature of the problem.
24320011|Vanilla mexicana (= V. inodora) is reported from Martin County, Florida, some 100 miles north of its previously known range. A history of the taxon in Florida and an ecological description of the new locality are provided.
24321795|Diadromy is a life history pattern that involves true migrations between freshwater and marine biomes, so diadromous fishes serve as important sentinels of ecosystem health. Diadromous fishes can be classified as catadromous, anadromous, or amphidromous depending upon which biome is used as spawning or nursery grounds. Included in the candidate list of 26 Florida species, we recognize one catadromous species (Family Anguillidae), five anadromous species (Acipenseridae, Clupeidae), and two amphidromous species (Mugilidae, Syngnathidae). Four diadromous species occur locally but are either not established (Petromyzontidae, Acipenseridae) or are not diadromous in Florida (Acipenseridae, Moronidae). Five candidate species were rejected because of evidence that they are not diadromous (Clupeidae, Mugilidae, Achiridae). We tentatively include nine species as being amphidromous (Centropomidae, Eleotridae, Gobiidae), with the caveat that more research is needed to clarify whether these species exhibit life-stage-specific migrations between freshwater and marine biomes. Florida's diadromous species occur among a wide variety of families, but they represent only about 12% of the regional fish species. This pattern of phylogenetic diversity, but few species, is also evident among diadromous species worldwide. Most of Florida's diadromous species are regulated by fishery management plans, serve as predictable prey resources for other fishes and wildlife, or are protected by special conservation status.
24319586|Hematological and ecological studies have been conducted upon an amphibious catfish originating from Africa and Madagascar. Hemopoetic centers and peripheral blood cells are discussed. The mesonephros was determined to be the principal hemopoetic center. All types of leucocytes were identified in the peripheral circulation. Natural history of the species is discussed briefly.
24321783|During the 2004 hurricane season, Florida was hit by an unprecedented 4 hurricanes (Charley, Frances, Ivan, and Jeanne). The floodplain forest of the Loxahatchee River was impacted by both Hurricanes Frances and Jeanne. Hurricane Frances made landfall on September 5, 2004. Three weeks later, Hurricane Jeanne made landfall on September 25, 2004. Previously in 2003, floodplain vegetation studies were conducted along 10 vegetative belt transects on the tidal and riverine portions of the Northwest Fork of the Loxahatchee River and its major tributaries. In the summer and fall of 2005, canopy trees were reexamined along the 10 belt transects to assess hurricane damage. Comparisons were made between the 2003 survey of the canopy trees and the remaining canopy. In the tidal floodplains, tall white mangrove (Laguncularia racemosa) were heavily impacted, while shorter red mangrove (Rhizophora mangle) were only marginally impacted and defoliated. In the riverine floodplains, the heaviest damage occurred within bottomland hardwood communities with both red maple (Acer rubrum) and water hickory (Carya aquatic) impacted. Of the 1,694 canopy trees sampled, a 2.5% mortality rate occurred as a result of the storms. There is a concern these storms may provide an opportunity for the expansion of exotic pest plants within the floodplains.
24321029|Plant community breakup is defined as the extent to which one or more physiognomically dominant plant species are lost from their communities. With respect to climatic change, potential plant community breakup can be measured as the extent to which one or more climatic envelopes (i. e., climatic adaptation zones) of dominant plant species are lost from the natural ranges of their communities. A climatic-envelope model is used to predict potential breakup of 13 major natural plant communities in Florida as a result of six climatic-change scenarios that could occur over the next 100 years. Averaged over all communities and species within communities, the high-to-low ranking of potential community breakup by scenario is as follows: T+2w (80) > T+1 (80) > T+2w > T+2 > T+1w > T+1 > T, where T = baseline; T+1 and T+2 = mean annual warming of 1C or 2C, respectively, applied uniformly to each month; T+1w and T+2w = mean annual warming of 1C or 2C, with proportionately greater winter and less summer warming (i. e., winter-enhanced or "w"); and (80) = 80% of the baseline mean annual precipitation. The 61% to 100% loss of at least one dominant species envelope caused by T+1 (80) in 11 of the 13 communities and of at least two dominant species envelopes in seven communities is especially notable because it involves only a 1C increase. Based on consideration of non-climatic factors such as persistence time of temperate species and migration rates of subtropical species during climatic change, we conclude that T+1 (80) or any of the +2C scenarios is likely to produce: (1) very significant modification or breakup of several major, natural, woody communities in the Florida panhandle and upper two thirds of the Florida peninsula; and (2) an increase in certain dominant, subtropical species populations in the southern half of the Florida peninsula. Methods of monitoring for early indications of such impacts are noted, and proactive mitigations are suggested. Areas of special interest with respect to monitoring and mitigation include a transition zone between temperate species of two different range types in the Florida panhandle and upper peninsula, and both a major and secondary temperate-subtropical species transition zone in the southern half of the Florida peninsula.
24319661|The hypothesis that the environmental condition of the north Biscayne Bay is polluted, while the south bay is relatively clean, was examined by studying the distribution of cadmium, lead, mercury and zinc in the bottom sediments. Samples were collected from a primary study area in the generally accepted boundary between north and south bay and from sample sites along the Intracoastal Waterway. No significant difference was found in the concentrations of the subject heavy metals in the north and south bay.
24320434|Results from a survey of road mortality of vertebrates in Northern Florida indicated that mortality correlated positively with speed limit and density of vegetative cover, but the influence of traffic volume was apparently masked by the influence of speed limit.
24321236|In this laboratory experiment, the influence of structural complexity on susceptibility to predation by toadfish, Opsanus beta, was examined for two gobies: Microgobius gulosus and Gobiosoma robustum. These two gobies exhibit some habitat partitioning in Florida Bay: Gobiosoma robustum, a non-burrowing species, is generally found associated with seagrass; however, Microgobius gulosus, a burrower, is generally found in mud with little or no associated seagrass. A previous experiment showed that both species preferred seagrass to sand; however, G. robustum was competitively dominant and could displace M. gulosus to sand. It was hypothesized that G. robustum was attracted to seagrass as it ameliorated predation, whereas M. gulosus was protected from predation by its burrowing habit and therefore less strongly attracted to seagrass. Surprisingly, there was no effect of seagrass on predation rates. Microgobius gulosus was significantly more likely to be preyed upon than G. robustum. There was no substrate X species interaction, indicating that that the predation success of toadfish on gobies did not differ across substrate types. Predation is generally ameliorated in structurally complex habitats, and can structure the distribution and density of prey species. However, this appears not to be the case for M. gulosus and G. robustum.
24321822|Competitio is an ecological process that may play a role in the structuring of communities. Understanding the effect of competition on rare species may be particularly important for amphibian conservation, because amphibians are experiencing global declines. We experimentally evaluated the effects of Lithobates [Rana] clamitans (Bronze Frog) tadpoles, a common and relatively widespread species, on Lithobates [Rana] okaloosae (Florida Bog Frog) tadpoles, a rare species with a geographic range that only encompasses small tributary streams of 3 rivers in northwestern Florida. The two species are syntopic, have overlapping breeding seasons, and are known to hybridize. Our results suggest that there was limited influence of L. clamitans on L. okaloosae; because in only one of six comparisons among mixed treatments (i.e., 4 L. clamitans with 8 L. okaloosae) was L. okaloosae growth in the treatment lower than the single species L. okaloosae treatment. Conversely, it appeared that L. clamitans was more susceptible to intraspecific competition than interspecific competition. The lack of a strong competitive effect of L. clamitans on L. okaloosae suggests that competition for food may have a limited effect at the densities we examined. Therefore, given other threats facing L. okaloosae, such as drought, habitat loss or degradation (including succession), and hybridization, competition between tadpoles for food appeared to have been low enough as to be less of a population-level driver of rarity than the aforementioned factors. Our results however, did not rule out the possibility of an increase in negative interactions with more common anurans as resources become more limited.
24321011|A significant gopher tortoise (Gopherus polyphemus) mortality event was documented in June 1998 at a 150-ha mitigation park established for tortoise protection. Shell surveys throughout the park were conducted between June 1998 and September 1999. The greatest concentration of dead tortoises, as determined by shells and remains, occurred on a 28-ha portion of the park, where 104 individual shells were recovered. Tortoise age class and sex were recorded, with results indicating 68% of shells were of adult males. In an attempt to estimate time since death, shells were assigned to one of 6 condition classes, based on degree of disarticulation. Burrow surveys conducted as a means of obtaining tortoise density estimates showed major declines in population size between December 1994 and June 1998 in the area of highest mortality. Potential causes of death and management implications are discussed.
24321451|Using internet databases, estimates of body length (m), body weight (kg), and geological time of first appearance in millions of years before present (MYBP) were recorded for 612 valid genera of dinosaurs. Analyses of the data suggest that two major internet databases (DinoData and Dinosauier-Web [in German]) are in close agreement in their classifications and estimates of typical body length (m) per genus. The length and weight estimates were used to calculate body mass index (BMI = kg/m2) estimates for each genus. The bipedal meat-eaters of Suborder Theropoda (Order Saurischia) showed the relatively lowest values for median BMI, while the quadrupedal plant-eaters of Suborder Sauropodomorpha (Order Saurischia) showed the relatively highest values for median BMI. The mixture of bipedal and quadrupedal plant eaters within Order Ornithischia showed median BMI values generally similar to the threopod genera. Although many genera of theropods, sauropodomorphs and ornithischians appeared during the Late Triassic and Jurassic Periods (225144 MYBP), most genera of theropods and ornthischians appeared later in the Mesozoic, during the Cretaceous Period (14465 MYBP). The median BMI values of theropod and ornithischian genera were not correlated with time of first appearance, but for the sauropodomorphs, the higher BMI values (and more robust body proportions) appeared later in evolutionary time.
24319503|A bio-active isolate from unialgal cultures of the marine blue-green alga, Gomphosphaeria aponina, is cytolytic towards Gymnodinium breve. An apparatus for continuous culture has been designed to provide sufficient material for biophysiochemical characterization of the substance. Enhanced rates of growth and maximum cell population have improved yields and reduced culture time in this system which recycles artificial sea water medium.
24319766|Through the means of a questionnaire, I attempt to assess the current status of anthropology programs in Florida Community Colleges. Particular attention is directed to enrollment, number of courses offered, frequency of course offerings, if an anthropologist is teaching the course, and the problems experienced in "selling" the programs. Suggestions are offered for raising the status of anthropology at the community college level in Florida.
24321435|We evaluated the feasibility of using radio telemetry to study movements and microhabitat use of invasive Cuban treefrogs (Osteopilus septentrionalis) in Florida. We first conducted simple performance trials, and found no overt effects of radio belt attachment on locomotion in a test arena. We then attached radio transmitters to 17 frogs captured in bottomland forest and displaced them 200 m to sites in old-field or bottomland forest habitat, during the summer breeding season. We located each displaced frog daily for an average of 9 days each (range: 215d) and then evaluated their movements and the variables influential in predicting movement (e.g., relative transmitter weight, rainfall, release site, etc.). Radio tracked frogs predominantly chose arboreal refuges in the forest canopy, using the shrub and sub-canopy layer more frequently in old-field where there were few large trees. Frogs displaced to old-field moved rapidly and directly to forest habitats; in contrast, frogs displaced to similar forest habitat remained in forest and their movements were random. Frogs were more likely to move on nights with high relative humidity and temperature, low wind speed, and low moon fraction illuminated; frog sex, size, and relative transmitter weight did not significantly influence frog movement. Our study demonstrates that radio telemetry is a valuable tool for studying the ecology of large adult Cuban treefrogs. Additionally, our finding that displaced Cuban treefrogs are able to move rapidly to suitable forest habitat further attests to the resilience that has contributed to the success of this invasive frog.
24319470|A nearly black female bobcat was collected in Polk County, Florida, in October, 1970. Melanistic bobcats have been reported only 4 times previously, with all reports from southern Florida.
24320735|Recently, the classification of the clapper and king rail has been under debate. Because ornithologists may consider song when determining classification, I used playback recordings to compare the number of calls made by each rail to conspecific and heterospecific calls. Clapper and king rail calls were played in three saltwater marshes in east-central Florida during the spring breeding season. Both rails responded to both bird calls with no significant difference in frequency. These data support the classification of both rails as one species.
24321143|The severe and prolonged drought of 20002001 that affected Florida and the rest of the southeastern United States provided a unique opportunity to examine the impacts of drought on the survivorship and growth of Serenoa repens and Sabal etonia. In addition, a dry-season wildfire that occurred at the height of the drought enabled us to observe the combined impacts of drought and fire on a subset of adult palmettos and two cohorts of seedlings. On average, all populations of adult palmettos and the majority of individuals lost mass during the drought; however, the survivorship of adult palmettos was little affected by either drought or the combination of drought and an intense wildfire. Only 2 of the 937 monitored adult palmettos alive prior to the drought died; both were smaller-than-average-sized Sabal and one was severely burned during the drought. The greatest impact observed was on palmetto seedling survival in scrubby flatwoods where cumulative rates of seedling mortality were more than tripled following the drought. Nevertheless, 55% of a 1989 scrubby flatwoods cohort and 70% of a 1989 flatwoods cohort continue to survive after nearly 13 years, a severe drought, and an intense wildfire. Both seedling and adult Serenoa and Sabal show extraordinary persistence and tolerance to severe drought and intense dry-season wildfire.
24319725|A laboratory colony of round-tailed muskrats (Neofiber alleni) was established to study their behavioral patterns under relatively controlled conditions. When placed in running wheels, the animals ran a mean of 6634 revolutions per day, displaying a nocturnal/crepuscular pattern. The 2 prominent activity peaks occurred just before light onset and offset. The copulatory pattern of N. alleni is characterized by no locking, no intravaginal thrusting, multiple intromissions preceding ejaculation, and multiple ejaculations. Several patterns of agonistic behavior and scent marking are frequently displayed.
24320075|At high laboratory densities, specifically 10 pair ( = one pair per 1.65 l water), melanotic male mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis holbrooki), which are extremely rare in nature, were highly aggressive to normal males and had a clear dominance advantage over normals. Although their sexual activity at the 10-pair level was also significantly higher than normals, it was unclear whether there was an actual mating advantage or any female choice involved. If it can be subsequently shown that females respond selectively to melanistics by exhibiting receptive behavior, particularly at higher densities, a case for sexual selection will have been established.
24320637|Observations were made on free-ranging, introduced troops of the vervet monkey (Cercopithecus aethiops) in the mangrove communities of southeastern Florida. The founder populations were animals released from unsuccessful tourist attractions. Census information was obtained for two troops. An analysis of the vervets' time budget shows resting (36.9%) and foraging (35.2%) predominate. The distribution data on food sources reveal a reliance on seeds (23.2%), flowers (21.8%), fruit (20.2%), and invertebrates (17.4%).
24320181|A new species of the satyrid butterfly genus Calisto is described from the interface between the Dominican Sierra de Yamas and the karst regions to the east of that range. The new species is apparently allied with other small lowland Calisto (hysia, confusa, batesi) and perhaps also with C. debarriera from the distal portion of the Haitian Tiburon Peninsula.
24321565|Jonas Kamlet, Ph.D., was a chemist, inventor, and a significant entrepreneur who founded Kamlet Laboratories in New York City that became the model of a successful consulting firm. Among his hundreds of patents and inventions were a tablet that could be used to measure glucose in urine, a treated strip that could detect pregnancy, a fodder for ruminants that used newsprint, and biuret (a self-condensation product of urea) that could be used as a non-protein component of fodder. Following his death in an airplane collision on December 16, 1960, his wife and collaborator (and later a resident of Florida) carried on the work of the firm until her retirement in about 1979.
24319949|Previous archaeological research on Safety Harbor (ca. A. D. 1000-1600) burial mounds has revealed that primary burials, when present, are often stratigraphically deeper than secondary interments. This has traditionally been viewed as diachronic evidence of changing burial practices. Results of recent excavations and critical review of earlier research indicate that the pattern is more likely due to burial of charnel structure contents at the death of an important individual. Functional hypotheses concerning isolated Safety Harbor burial mounds (primarily found north of Tampa Bay) are presented and evaluated in terms of present knowledge. The primary hypotheses are that the mounds were either used by specific kin-based groups (such as clans) or simply by residents of the surrounding area. Available ethnohistoric and archaeological evidence is summarized, and methods of testing the hypotheses with archaeological data are presented.
24321877|In 20042007, the beaches of Sanibel Island, Florida, were affected by large drifts of macroalgae that accumulated on shore. The adjacent seafloor is composed of three ecoregions: inshore, nearshore and offshore. To measure attached and unattached macroalgae on various substrata, two field survey methods were compared from 2008 to 2010 along thirteen 100 m long transects. One method used visual assessments of macroalgae in 1 m2 quadrats along the transects and one used an underwater camcorder to capture video footage along the transects. Results of each method were converted to percent cover of the transect and compared for each sampling date. The results showed that digital video observations were not significantly different than diver assessments for two of three ecoregions. Sparse amounts of macroalgae were underestimated nearshore using visual SCUBA, due to the inconsistent, but high percentage, of algae cover. Uses, advantages, disadvantages, and time-effectiveness of the two methods were compared. Natural resource managers can choose which survey method meets their scientific, management and budget needs. Based on these results, it is suggested that video analysis of bottom cover is a practical method for rapid, widespread assessment of macroalgae abundance surrounding Sanibel Island.
24321842|Florida apple snails (Pomacea paludosa) are critical to Florida wetland food webs. Past studies emphasized that large predators consumed relatively large specimens (> 20 mm shells) of these snails. Past studies also identified crayfish, fish, and turtles as predators of hatchling (3-6 mm) and juvenile-sized apple snails, but quantitative relationships between these predators and a range of sizes of apple snails are scant. We identified predators not yet reported in the literature: the Seminole killifish (Fundulus seminolis), bluegill (Lepomis macrochirus), greater siren (Siren lacertina), and non-indigenous Mayan cichlid (Cichlasoma urophthalmus). We quantified the relationship between predator size and maximum snail size consumed for the following predators: crayfish (Procambarus alleni), turtles (Kinosternon bauri and Sternotherus odoratus), and redear sunfish (Lepomis microlophus). Predator size explained 60% to 78% of the variation in prey size eaten (which ranged from 4 to 22 mm shell length). When offered multiple sizes of prey simultaneously, crayfish and turtles ate snails smaller than the maximum size they were capable of consuming. All size classes of apple snails could fall prey to a variety of predators common to Florida wetlands. Understanding apple snail population ecology requires additional studies to quantify predation impacts on juvenile snails from aquatic predators.
24320981|Sodium fluorosilicate, a by-product of the production of phosphoric acid, is a nuisance material because of the tendency to build up in pipes and the need to remove the material from pipes. This material can be managed by application of magnetic fields (anti-scale magnetic treatment, AMT) The effect is ascribed to an increase in entropy as a result of the field, and the entropy increase results in an increase in the solubility of the scale. This present study addresses the effect of a magnetic field on iron impurities in the scale. In the presence of a magnetic field, there was a shift of iron concentration to smaller size particles. The phenomenon could be helpful in removing iron from the phosphoric acid stream or in providing purified sodium fluorosilicate.
24319652|A marsh composed primarily of maidencane (Panicum hemitomon) and pickerelweed (Pontederia lanceolata) in the Kissimmee River floodplain was studied to determine the effects of fire on primary and secondary productivity. A 100 square meter plot was burned in June 1974 and a similar unburned plot was the control. Primary and secondary productivity were sampled bimonthly from August 1974 thru February 1975. An almost complete recovery of the vegetation in the burned plot occurred within 6 mo. Total numbers of both animal species and individuals were significantly greater in the burned plot than in the control plot. Burning is a useful management tool to increase secondary productivity in the Kissimmee River marshes.
24321537|Restoration of wetland plant communities on the Kissimmee River floodplain is expected to be driven by reestablishment of inundation regimes that were altered by channelization but is threatened by a recent invasion of the exotic Old World climbing fern, Lygodium microphyllum. This study documents the response of a mesophytic shrub community to increased hydroperiods and depths following implementation of the first phase of the Kissimmee River restoration project and assesses the effects of an associated herbicide (glyphosate) treatment of Lygodium infestations. Hydrologic restoration led to replacement of the mesophytic shrub community that was dominated by Myrica cerifera and understory ferns by a wetland community consisting of Ludwigia peruviana, floating aquatic species and the mat-forming emergent Scirpus cubensis. The herbicide treatment largely eliminated cover of Lygodium, and a wetland plant community with similar species composition and relative cover as nearby hydrologic restoration sites developed in the treated area. Results suggest complementarity between the hydrologic restoration plan for the Kissimmee River and herbicide treatments for exotics. Prolonged inundation regimes likely enhanced the success of the herbicide treatment while the elimination of Lygodium facilitated the hydrologic restoration trajectory of the wetland community.
44113155|Sceloporus woodi inhabits scrub habitats in central Florida. In Ocala National Forest, this lizard also inhabits longleaf pine sandhills that differ in vegetative structure and composition, yet little is known about the ecology of S. woodi in sandhills. We describe microhabitat use, behavior, diet, ectoparasite load, and morphology of S. woodi in sandhill habitat and compare these data to reference scrub populations. Microhabitat use was significantly different between habitats. Lizards in sandhills used trees most often, whereas lizards in scrub were found on the ground. Foraging behavior was similar between habitats, yet lizards exhibited less scanning (head movement) in scrub sites. Sandhill lizards had significantly lower body temperatures, consumed fewer prey types, and had lower ectoparasite loads than lizards in scrub. Morphologically, females in sandhill had longer limbs than females in scrub. Differences in ecology between sandhill and scrub habitats are likely related to differences in the vegetation structure, thermal biology, and/or predation rates between the two habitats. This study provides a foundation upon which to study linkages among salient ecological variables within and among populations.
24319986|Questionnaires were administered to 25 non-participants, 34 non-adherent participants, and 53 people who completed a cardiovascular risk reversal program. More than onethird of those encouraged to participate did not; another 25 percent did not continue participation in the multi-week program. The questionnaire concerned vital statistics, sociocultural factors, and health knowledge, behaviors, and attitudes. Results suggest that the program was effective. Those exposed to at least half of the program knew vital health and cardiovascular knowledge better than did non-participants. They were also significantly more social, considered themselves in better health, were less fatalistic and more frequent church attendants in comparison to non-participants. The large number of non-participants and non-adherent participants is probably the result of common motivational problems regarding preventive health behavior.
24319387|An experimental investigation of 16 different refrigerant-absorbent fluid pairs has been carried out in order to determine their suitability as the working fluid in a solar powered absorption cycle air conditioner. Criteria used in the initial selection of a refrigerant-absorbent pair included: High affinity (large negative deviation from Raoult's Law), high solubility, low specific heat, low viscosity, stability, corrosing, safety and cost. For practical solar considerations of a fluid pair, refrigerants were selected with low boiling points whereas absorbent fluids were selected with a boiling point considerably above that of the refrigerant. These additional restrictions are determined by the operating temperatures of the absorber and the generator of an absorption cycle air conditioning system. These temperatures were specified as 100F (39C) and 170F (77C). Data are presented for a few selected pressures at the specified absorber and generator temperatures.
24320633|Although Bufo quercicus is a generalized predator that accepts a wide variety of insects and spiders, it exhibits a preference for certain prey types. In adult toads, 69.8 - 84.0 % of the stomachs examined contained ants, depending on the season, followed by spiders (54.2 - 56.1 %), termites (24.6 - 26.5 %) and carabid beetles (24.6 - 36.1 %). The diet of juveniles is dominated by collembolans (87.3 - 91.3 %), ants (87.0 - 92.5 %), spiders (44.3 - 49.3 %) and mites (22.2 - 25.3 %). Mites and collembolans were absent from the stomachs of adults. Soft-bodied prey (crickets and spiders) are digested in 60 - 72 hr following ingestion at 25C, whereas it takes 96 hr for the digestion of more heavily chitinized insects.
24321272|The white vine (Sarcostemma clausuni), historically a minor component of Everglades macrophyte communities, has undergone extensive population growth in a nutrient-enriched region of Water Conservation Area 2A in the northern Florida Everglades. Much of the herbaceous underlying vegetation (primarily cattail) has been severely impacted or replaced by accumulation of the vine. Here we present initial data on approximate aerial coverage, shoot growth, standing biomass, tissue nutrient concentrations, and experimental responses to soil nutrients and water depth. The ecological significance of S. clausum proliferation and potential implications for Everglades restoration and management are discussed.
24321787|A 1992 survey of metal concentrations in sediments and clams from the Indian River Lagoon, Florida, was repeated during 20067. Concentrations of Cr, Ni, Se and V in sediments were at background values during both surveys with no indication of anthropogenic inputs. Average values for Ag, Cd and Zn in sediments, normalized to Al, were unchanged, but contamination was identified at several locations during both surveys. The proportion of sites with elevated values for sediment Cu, Hg and Pb increased between 1992 and 20067 from 22 to 65%, 9 to 35%, and 13 to 39%, respectively, with highest values near harbors and marinas. Concentrations of Hg and Zn exceeded sediment quality guidelines for an effects range low in the same two harbors during both surveys. Data from age-dated sediment cores collected in 20067 showed that Ag and Pb concentrations peaked during the 1970s whereas Cu values increased since the 1960s. For the clam Mercenaria mercenaria, mean values for Ag, Cd, and Zn were unchanged whereas mean concentrations of Cu and Pb were 3040% lower in 20067 due to an absence of clams near urban areas. Mean values for Hg, Se and V in clams were 2 times higher in 20067.
24321152|In terms of biomass, drift algal communities are often the dominant organisms in estuaries. On the east coast of central Florida, drift communities have been studied primarily in the southern reaches of the Indian River Lagoon system. To determine the abundance and diversity of floating drift macrophytes and associated fauna in Mosquito Lagoon, the northernmost region of the Indian River Lagoon, monthly observations were run for a 2-year period, beginning in April 1998. For each 24-hr sampling period, all drift was collected every 4 hr, brought into the laboratory, sorted by species, and weighed. Environmental data (salinity, wind speed, water motion, water and air temperatures) was also recorded every 4 hr. During the two-year survey, 26 species of drift macrophytes were collected in Mosquito Lagoon. Red algae of the genus Gracilaria and the seagrass Halodule wrightii were found in the greatest abundances, representing 51.7% and 23.7%, respectively, of all macrophyte biomass collected. Invertebrates and fishes (e.g. the code goby Gobiosoma robustum) were, at times, found in high densities attached or closely associated with these topographically complex, drift communities. No correlations between macrophyte abundance and wind speed or flow rate were found. Additionally, no consistent temporal patterns of macrophyte abundances were observed.
24319686|The exotic plants Casuarina equisetifolia and Melaleuca quinquenervia have become established in South Florida. The effect of these plants on the local fauna is not known. We studied the effects of Melaleuca and Casuarina on the 3 sympatric rodents (Peromyscus gossypinus, Sigmodon hispidus and Oryzomys palustris) found in the Everglades. Three study areas with different types of habitats were established. The habitats trapped included Casuarina heads, cocoplum heads, combination Casuarina and cocoplum heads, Melaleuca heads and mixed Melaleuca-graminoid heads. Sherman live traps baited with oats were set in 2 successive nights during each rotation. Casuarina habitats supported fewer rodents than either cocoplum or Melaleuca habitats. Rodents captured on the combination Casuarina-cocoplum head showed a clear preference for the cocoplum half. Peromyscus were found primarily in the interior of the mature Melaleuca head, while Oryzomys occurred primarily and Sigmodon exclusively in mixed Melaleuca-graminoid habitat. Frequency of recaptures of Peromyscus and Sigmodon indicated that each was resident in its preferred habitat.
24320445|Burrow structure and placement of Geolycosa xera are reported for the first time. Significant positive correlations between burrow characteristics and body size were found. Burrows constructed in the field tended to be more highly correlated to body size than burrows constructed in the laboratory. Mean distance from the burrow to the nearest burrow was 95.4 cm.
24321192|Organophosphate resistance of the Asiatic clam Corbicula fluminea and hooked mussel Ischadium recurvum were preliminarily assessed with diazinon and chlorpyrifos exposures. The diazinon 96-hour LC50 for I. recurvum was estimated to be 1,354 g/L with a 95% upper confidence limit (UCL) of 1,501 g/L and 95% lower confidence limit (LCL) of 1,041 g/L Chlorpyrifos appeared more toxic to I. recurvum than diazinon with an estimated 96-hour LC50 of 960 g/L (LCL of 890, UCL 1,040 g/L). C. fluminea was more tolerant with an estimated diazinon 96-hour LC50 of 4,067 g/L (LCL 2,847, UCL 5,814 g/L). The protectiveness of bivalve isolation through valve closure was examined in behaviorally regulated exposures that demonstrated noteworthy changes in tolerance of C. fluminea exposed to 15,251 g/L diazinon. An exposure duration thought to preclude bivalve self-isolation also indicated high organophosphate resistance with a 21-day diazinon LC50 estimation for C. fluminea of 548 g/L (LCL 455 g/L, UCL 658 g/L).
24320725|Growth (shell height), survival and reproductive development of bay scallops and levels of turbidity, total and volatile suspended solids, phytoplankton and chlorophyll a were monitored biweekly in Tampa Bay from Jun 30 to Oct 27, 1992. Cages (25 individuals per cage) were placed in seagrass and sand bottom areas at two locations: 1) Beacon Key (BK), south of Cockroach Bay and 2) Boca Ciega Bay (BCB), between Bunces and Maximo Passes. No significant differences (p = 0.05) were observed in growth between sand and grass at either location. Overall growth rate was significantly higher (p < 0.001) at BCB than BK. Overall survival was 31% at BCB and 15% at BK. No differential mortality was observed between sand and grass at BCB; mortality was greater in sand at BK. Water quality parameters were consistently higher at BK. Greatest mortality at BK (Oct 13) followed dramatic increases in turbidity (to 20.5 NTUs) and volatile suspended solids (to 16 mg/L) at this site. Overall mortality was associated with spawning at both sites. Funding was provided by the Tampa Bay National Estuary Program.
24320380|A three-year field survey of Florida interior sand pine scrubs, conducted by the first author and funded by the Florida Nongame Wildlife Program, has resulted in a better understanding of the distributions of many Central Florida scrub endemic plants. The status and distributions of 21 species (or varieties) of plants that are endemic (or nearly endemic) to the Lake Wales, Lake Henry, and Winter Haven ridges in central peninsular Florida are reported. Habitat notes, range extensions, and corrections of erroneous literature records are documented. Several species of scrub plants seem threatened with imminent extinction in the wild, and several others are rapidly approaching that condition.
24321196|Pinus clausa (Chapm. ex Engelm.) Vasey ex sargo. and Pinus elliottii, Engelm. ovulate/seed cones have distinctive developmental patterns and growth curves. This is determined by using a morphological key to identify seven cone stages based on umbo and apophysis color and appearance from the time of pollination to maturity. Pinus elliottii has its earliest and both of its latest stages with length growth significantly greater than width growth and one middle stage where the opposite is true. The length-width ratio, therefore, for P. elliottii, approximates an inverted bell-shaped growth curve, whereas cones of Pinus clausa, a sympatric species, has a length to width growth pattern that increases with each stage without marked spurts of growth. Therefore, its developmental pattern and growth curve approximates a linear curve. Both trees, therefore, can be recognized by growth patterns that may be considered universal for each species. Features of umbo, apophysis, cone development and growth are useful and reliable taxonomic characters that should accompany the suite of features used to identify each Pinus species. In addition, these features provide another taxonomic benefit, the recognition of pine hybrids in the field. This could be very useful economic information now with apparent global climatic changes. Some hybrids may exhibit growth vigor, whereas the parent species may be less adaptable.
24320704|Recently, demental carbon (EC) panicles have been found in the lungs of dolphins. The question arose as to whether these particles originated over land or water. This project undertook to determine the amount of particulate EC found in Florida's air. Portions of particulate filters and associated data collected during the period from 1/90 through 12/91 were provided by the Florida Department of Environmental Regulation. Using reflectance spectroscopy and laboratory-generated standards, atmospheric concentrations of EC were determined. These data are being used in a companion study to plot the temporal changes in EC concentration over the state; a "Carbon Map". This paper addresses the data from those counties which surround Tampa Bay.
24320503|Studies of water chemistry in the Hillsborough River led to an examination of the factors that might lead to production of nitrosoamines under environmentally simulated conditions in the laboratory. Nitrosoamines were determined by means of a chemiluminescence-based technique providing determination of nitrosoamine plus nitrite concentrations. Subtraction of nitrite ion concentration gave total nitrosoamine concentrations. The components of the study system consisted of nitrate -nitrogen (70 ppb), Hillsborough River sediment, and chelated-copper herbicide (a commercially available ethanolamine derivative, 4 ppm), adjusted to pH 6.6 in aqueous phase. Nitrosoamine production was not observed at 25C after about 10 days when all three components were present. No nitrite nor nitrosoamine formation was noted, or was below the sensitivity of the method (0.1 ng/sample), when chelated-copper was not present, when nitrate was not added to the system, or in the absence of sediment. The results indicate that the use of this chelated-copper herbicide does not lead to the formation of nitrosoamine under environmentally simulated conditions.
24320243|Green anoles, Anolis carolinensis, from Chatham and Liberty counties, Georgia, were examined for intestinal platyhelminths. Anoles from Chatham County harbored the trematode Alloglyptus crenshawi and the cestode Oochoristica anolis. Chatham County, Georgia, is a new locality record for O. anolis.
24319408|The species is reported for the first time from a tributary of the St. Johns River in Central Florida; flabelliform acicular setae were confirmatory taxonomic characteristics for species recognition.
24320202|Everglades mink (Mustela vison evergladensis) formerly were believed not to live in the true Everglades of eastern south Florida. Our data extends their known distribution to include this region.
24320203|A survey by livetrapping for Oryzomys argentatus was conducted in the Lower Keys of Florida. Results indicate that rice rats are extirpated from the type locality and do not occur on nearby islands. Reference to the recent changes in sea level suggests that the Lower Keys population of rice rats can be no older than 3000 yr. Reasons are given for assigning O. argentatus to a subspecific rank. A single extant population is known from Raccoon Key.
24321053|We evaluated the influence of post-fire recovery of vegetation (<6 mo., 2436 mo., and 48 mo.) and geometric distance (Dg) between receiver and transmitter on accuracy of locations estimated with hand-held radiotelemetry equipment in pine-dominated habitats in southwest Florida. We defined accuracy as linear error (E) from true location. Accuracy of radiotelemetry estimates was negatively influenced by post-fire recovery of vegetation, but mean E among post-fire recovery treatments did not differ greatly (2939 m), presumably due to the rapid recovery of fire-adapted vegetation. The influence of Dg on accuracy of estimates was similar to that of post-fire recovery at Dg < 250 m. Median linear error (Em) at Dg of 50149 m and 150249 m was 23 and 32 m and produced mean 95% confidence areas of 1.4 and 2.1 ha, respectively. Distance between receiver and transmitter had a pronounced negative effect on accuracy at Dg of 250351 m, with Em = 122 m and a mean 95% confidence area of 17.2 ha. Our findings confirmed that distance to transmitter is the most important factor influencing accuracy of location estimates when using hand-held telemetry in densely vegetated habitats and, more importantly, that accuracy declines rapidly at Dg > 250 m. Our study does not replace the need for researchers to develop general estimates of accuracy when conducting radiotelemetry studies, but provides information on the approximate levels of accuracy that can be anticipated and of the variables that most influence accuracy when using hand-held equipment in forested habitats in south Florida. The information we provide will assist researchers in designing studies that include equipment and budgets capable of accomplishing study objectives.
24319764|Despite seemingly adequate provisioning, free-ranging rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) at Silver Springs, Florida continually supplement their diet with foraged food including 48 species of plants, soil and occasionally insects. All age, sex and status classes forage although not all foraging behavior yields an obvious nutritional benefit. The nutritional significance of this behavior deserves further investigation. The implications of foraging by provisioned monkeys may extend beyond nutritive need and provide a basis for understanding the origin of grooming.
24320165|The report of a resident population of the Jamaican fig-eating bat (Chiroptera, Phyllostomidae: Artibeus jamaicensis) in Florida bij Lazell and Koopman (1985) is unsubstantiated. The photograph on which this report is based is of a phyllostomid bat, but it cannot be identified. No population has been found.
24319522|Myrsine guianensis (Aubl.) Kuntz (Myrsine) and Ardisia escallonioides Schlecht and Cham. (Marlberry) support development of Aleurocanthus woglumi Ashby to the adult stage and are native to southern Florida. Ardisia solanacea Roxb., Schinus terebinthifolius Raddi (Brazilian Pepper Tree) and Eugenia uniflora L. (Surinam Cherry) are naturalized plants which also support complete A. woglumi development. Citrus spp. and these native or naturalized plants, which support complete development are considered as potential refugia of A. woglumi and can affect the chances of its eradication.
24321874|The Southwest Florida Water Management District funded salinity regression modeling for the determination of minimum flows of the tidal Myakka River. Selected isohaline (1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 20, and 24 PSU) locations were modeled as a function of weather terms, tidal conditions, and a variety of weighted daily flows of the Myakka River near Sarasota, FL, the tributary Myakkahatchee Creek, and the Peace River near Arcadia. Peace River flows were included due to potential influence on downriver boundary conditions. The most influential variables were variably weighted flow terms, weighted over periods based on both flow and the riverine volume upstream of the computed isohaline location. Adjusted multiple r2 of the regressions for 8 PSU and lower isohaline locations were 0.80 or better (n70100). Regressions were validated with a subset of data withheld from regression development. Regressions were used to simulate time series of isohaline positions under both existing flows and potential flow reductions. Changes in isohaline locations could then be used to evaluate amounts of critical habitats (benthic, freshwater marsh, forested wetlands) exposed to salinity intervals, to compute the projected changes in isohaline locations under reduced flow scenarios, and to balance projected flow reductions with potential habitat alterations.
24321801|Breaching is a behavior observed in numerous marine vertebrate species, and is typically associated with feeding, predator avoidance, parasite removal, or signaling. Few shark species have been documented to display natural breaching behavior unassociated with hook and line capture. We describe observations of breaching by juvenile bull sharks, Carcharhinus leucas, in the Indian River Lagoon, Florida. Breaching is not a behavior typically associated with bull sharks, and has led to species misidentifications in the past. The behavior was observed on 18 occasions over a two-year period in the study site, including a day in which 11 breaches were observed in a small estuarine creek. Conditions that appear to promote breaching behavior in bull sharks are identified, and potential motivations are discussed.
24321402|The Black Spinytail Iguana (Ctenosaura similis) was monitored at Bill Baggs Cape Florida State Park (CFSP), an urban park in southern Florida, for three years subsequent to a two-year Raccoon (Procyon lotor) removal program. Although far less abundant than the Green Iguana (Iguana iguana) at the same site, the Black Spinytail Iguana responded in similar fashion to Raccoon removal with increasing numbers of individuals and smaller size-classes. The Raccoon, a well known predator of vertebrate eggs, including those of the Black Spinytail Iguana, and of young Green Iguanas, is thought to be a limiting predator of this species at CFSP. The response by this lizard to removal of its predator should be kept in mind when management decisions concerning overabundant Raccoons are being contemplated on managed lands.
24321926|Initiated by the Key Biscayne Community Foundation, the Key Biscayne resident survey was conducted to gage opinions on the most important natural resource issues of the Key in view of increasing natural and anthropogenic stressors. The results are being used to develop goals for a citizen scientist project directed at protecting the resources of Key Biscayne. An Internet-based survey sent to 8,000 residents resulted in the completion of 735 (9.25%) responses. Overall, the respondents were well educated and share concerns about the local environment. About half of those who took the survey were willing to participate in future monitoring and data collection indicating that a community-based citizen science program could provide long-term benefits for the Key's coastal and marine resources. The survey results set the initial direction for the Key Biscayne Citizen Scientist Project. The main interest of respondents (77%) was increased educational opportunities. An educational web site, lectures and field trips were instituted to satisfy this requirement, with the emphasis of these activities on beaches, water quality, green spaces and trail use. Future activities will address scientific issues relative to these assets.
24321558|We report here on the results of French 2-tier box trap horse fly and deer fly (Diptera: Tabanidae) collections obtained from Bay County, FL. Over 10,000 specimens were collected representing 6 genera and 43 species. A paucity of documented taxonomic material exists on this group of biting pests in northwestern Florida. This paper provides a historical checklist of the tabanids collected in this county and includes new locality records for 33 species.
24321912|Our results indicate that the acetolactate synthase (ALS) is uncommon in the foliage of Old World climbing fern (Lygodium microphyllum; OWCF). We were unable to isolate the ALS enzyme in six of nine samples tested. Our results using an in vitro ALS assay indicates that metsulfuron is effective at blocking the ALS enzyme in OWCF under lab conditions at rates as low as 100 g/l (100 ppb). This may explain the high susceptibility of OWCF to metsulfuron under field conditions. We hypothesize that exposing the plants to full sunlight 2448 hours prior to the assay may increase ALS enzyme activity in the meristematic tissue instead of sampling from plants grown in greenhouse conditions under 50% shade. The dose response curve for OWCF with the ALS bioassay for metsulfuron can be used as baseline data in the future to compare if potential resistant populations of OWCF are detected.
24321583|Larvae of the biting midge genus Dasyhelea in artificial containers in the Florida Keys occur more commonly with larvae of Aedes aegypti than Culex quinquefasciatus. A new Florida county record for Dasyhelea pseudoincisurata Waugh & Wirth is reported from Geneva, Seminole County, only the fourth county record for this species in Florida.
24319629|Systematic survey of the Oldsmar and Pass-a-Grille Beach Quadrangles added 46 prehistoric sites to 72 already known. A plea is made for consideration of the sites as natural resources to be preserved.
24319982|The yeast communities of decaying cladodes and fruits of two large stands of Opuntia stricta in the area of Cape Canaveral, Florida, were investigated. The yeast community was comparable in many ways with those of O. stricta in the Caribbean and in Australia. Many important differences were observed as well, some of which may be attributable to the absence, in Florida, of Cactoblastis cactorum, a moth used extensively elsewhere for the biological eradication of prickly pear cactus as a weed.
24319813|Five collections of attached diatoms and other algae obtained during warm and cold seasons yielded 111 species. Seventy-nine percent were diatoms, the rest blue-green, green, red, and brown algae. During the warmer months, most species occurred on leaves of 3 seagrasses; the least number was on smooth cordgrass (Spartina alterniflora) stems, mangrove (Avicennia germinans) pneumatophores and oyster shells. During most of the coldest months, a reversal of this distribution was observed which was attributed to disappearance of most seagrass leaves during the winter.
24320974|The semaphore cactus in the Florida Keys has until recently been considered a disjunct location of the Jamaican Opuntia spinosissima. Loss of all but one population in the Keys coupled with recent suggestions that the species should be taxonomically separated from the Jamaican cactus and is, therefore, a Florida Keys endemic, makes this population of conservation concern. Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis was conducted on the remaining 12 individual large stems in the wild to determine whether this small population contains multiple genotypes. Other accessions of the cactus, mainly from private collections and from the Caribbean were also included. Analysis of 42 RAPD markers reveals that all Florida accessions are closely related, with unique genotypes being separated by differences at only one to as many as five polymorphic markers (2411.9% of markers). Within the wild population, seven genotypes could be uniquely identified. The Jamaican accession was separated from the Florida cacti by an average of 22 marker differences (52.3% of the markers). The difference of the Florida accessions from the Jamaican accession by a large number of markers suggests possible species-level differentiation, providing additional supportive evidence that the Keys population may be one of the rarest and most threatened plants in the continental United States.
24319831|Seasonal variation in zooplankton abundance and diversity in Spring Lake, Florida was studied between 1973 and 1976. This clear, sand bottom lake is among Florida's lakes that have the highest water quality. The zooplankton community in Spring Lake was characterized by low abundance (monthly means < 100 individuals/1) and high Shannon diversity (monthly means were 3.0-4.0). A rich rotifer fauna was mainly responsible for variation in monthly mean values for the Shannon and Simpson indices. Eighty-three zooplankton species were collected: 60 were rotifers, 16 were cladocerans, and 7 were copepods. Forty-one zooplankton species (27 rotifers, 7 cladocerans, and 7 copepods) were common between years. The pattern of low abundance and high diversity for the zooplankton in Spring Lake is considered an indication of oligotrophic-like conditions.
44113158|Ambystoma bishopi (reticulated flatwoods salamander) is federally endangered and one of two flatwoods salamanders that occur in the longleaf pine ecosystem. Both species are experiencing population declines attributed to habitat loss and degradation. Flatwoods salamanders are fossorial for much of the year. Little information is available on habitat structures used by these species when they are in breeding wetlands, although they are found in association with crayfish burrows. We evaluated the number and sizes of burrow entrances used by, and available to, A. bishopi in two breeding wetlands on Eglin Air Force Base, Okaloosa County, FL. During the 2011-12 winter breeding season, we followed 38 adult salamanders using fluorescent powder and/or passive integrated transponder (PIT) tags and documented use of burrows. We surveyed transects in March, after a prescribed burn, to estimate the density and diameters of burrow entrances available. We tracked more salamanders to burrows, and tracked them longer distances (11.9 meters post-burn compared to 1.9 meters pre-burn), after a prescribed burn consumed the dense herbaceous vegetation. Salamanders used burrow entrances 6.9-45.4 millimeters in diameter. The density of burrow entrances was 0.6/m-2.8/m and was higher in areas with more grass hummocks. Further research is needed to determine the importance of burrows to survival and reproduction.
24321120|Increasing human population growth has put pressure on converting marginal soils to productive farmland. Since many soils are deficient in certain essential nutrient elements, slow-release, granular singular superphosphate fertilizers could be compounded containing adequate amounts of all elements needed not only for crops produced but also for people subsisting on these crops. If this were done, increased food supplies and healthier human populations should result.
24320586|This is the first report of a mass stranding of Leach's Storm-Petrel, Oceanodroma leucorhoa, along the southeast United States coast and the first onshore record for the species in Georgia. Seventy-two birds were found on the beaches of Cumberland Island and Little Cumberland Island, Georgia during a 12-day period (22 May-2 June 1991). Strandings were documented between St. Catherines Island, Georgia and St. Augustine, Florida.
24321248|The sociobiology of Florida Key deer (Odocoileus virginianus clavium) appears to have changed in recent years. It has been hypothesized that supplemental feeding has increased deer use of urban areas. We evaluated and categorized Key deer (n = 132) behavior in urban areas. We found feeding was the most frequent (4954%) behavior observed followed by moving (2023%), standing (14 17%) and bedding (812%). In comparing types of feeding behavior, we found feeding on native vegetation was more frequently observed (P < 0.001) than other feeding behaviors, including illegal feeding by tourists. Illegal feeding during the 6-month tourist season (OctMar) increased (+25%) as expected, whereas native feeding behavior decreased (-21%). We propose that illegal feeding is more an opportunistic behavior in Key deer rather than the primary reason in use of urban areas. We recommend that public outreach and law enforcement efforts discourage illegal feeding of this endangered deer herd and that efforts focus on tourists rather than local residents.
24321644|Estuarine zooplankton, hyperbenthos and nekton often move upstream in response to reduced freshwater inflows. In estuaries with drowned-river-mouth morphologies, this upstream movement repositions organisms within estuarine reaches that have reduced volumes. The movement into more volumetrically confined habitats and into areas near water-control structures raises concerns about habitat compression and associated reductions in estuarine carrying capacity, particularly if this trend is associated with excessive freshwater withdrawal. We present a simple method for identifying habitat compression along the longitudinal estuarine axis and apply it to faunal transect surveys of several west-central Florida tidal rivers. Regression was used to compare the length (km) of the interdecile range (10th90th cumulative abundance percentiles) under variable freshwater inflow conditions. The use of quantiles frees the analysis from assumptions about the shape of longitudinal abundance distributions. We demonstrate how his approach can also be used to identify sampling artifacts and to quantify the extent of impingement on estuarine dams. In estuaries that have strong seasonal variation in inflow, useful results can be obtained with <2 yrs of monthly transect data. This method offers promise as a tool for inflow management in estuaries where long-term abundance data are not available.
24321376|A study was conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of the herbicide active ingredient metsulfuron methyl for controlling the invasive Old World climbing fern Lygodium microphyllum and to determine injury to the non-target, native species Panicum hemitomon. Based on visual ratings, metsulfuron methyl provided 94% control of L. microphyllum 23 months after two applications of 84 g a.i./ha, while 67% control was observed in plots treated twice with 42 g a.i./ha (LSD .05 = 10). Eighty three percent control was observed 18 months after application in plots treated only once with 84 g a.i./ha. Twenty eight months after the final herbicide application, L. microphyllum dry weight was not different in treated plots compared to untreated plots. Based on visual observations, injury to P. hemitomon was not observed in these same plots, and biomass, though highly variable, was not reduced in treated plots compared to untreated plots. A separate study was conducted to determine injury to Cladium jamaicense, which is a dominant non-target, native plant in some habitats invaded by L. microphyllum. Visual injury to C. jamaicense was not observed during a complete growing season after treatment with up to 168 g a.i./ha metsulfuron methyl. After cutting of C. jamaicense the following growing season, regrowth in plots treated with 42, 84, or 168 g a.i./ha metsulfuron methyl was 164, 124, and 126 g/m2, respectively, and was not significantly reduced compared to untreated plots that contained 181 g/m2 of regrowth (LSD .05 = 62). Results of this study indicate that metsulfuron methyl applied at a rate of 84 g a.i./ha will subdue growth of L. microphyllum for at least one growing season and two consecutive applications will offer slightly greater control. However, complete control is not achieved and additional control measures will be required to keep growth in check. C. jamaicense, or P. hemitomon, which are common non-target plant species in some habitats where L. microphyllum has invaded will not be affected and permanent damage will not occur to Cephalanthus occidentalis when metsulfuron methyl is applied for control of L. microphyllum.
24319654|A survey based on personal interviews was conducted throughout the range of the Big Cypress fox squirrel (Sciurus niger avicennia). The subspecies is widespread in its original range, occurring in Hendry, Lee, Collier, Monroe, and northwestern Dade counties. The squirrels are rare and populations have very low density. The survey accounted for 340 squirrels, and presumably additional undetected individuals exist. The squirrels occupied cypress forest, pine savanna, tropical hardwood forest, oak savanna, mangrove forest, and suburban habitats; individuals may require more than one habitat. We recommend reclassification as a threatened subspecies and stronger protection from hunting.
24319395|During 1975, 14 incidents of moderate to severe ciguatera intoxication involving 76 adults of Greater Miami came to our attention. Eight individuals who had ingested black and yellow fin grouper caught in Bahamian and Florida coastal waters complained particularly of severe pain in the jaw bones (primarily lower jaw), teeth, and throat, which lasted, in three of the subjects, for approximately 5 mo. Portions of the fish which caused these intoxications were fed to beagle dogs which developed marked fibrous dysplasia of the lower jaw bone with reabsorption of the peridontal membrane and lamina dura. Another dog demonstrated reabsorption of bone at the apex of each individual mature tooth root. Blood chemical studies revealed reduction in blood calcium, phosphorus, and alkaline phosphatase. These studies appear to lend support to the theory that there may be a relationship between the pain in the jaw bones and teeth of the human subjects and the reabsorption and arrest of bone growth noted in the dogs.
24321064|Drift fences with funnel traps were used to survey the herpetofauna of sandhill, xeric hammock, and basin marsh habitats at Chinsegut Nature Center, Hernando County, Florida. Xeric upland habitats were trapped for a total of 375 days in 199596 and 1998. The second year of the study differed in that animals were marked and pitfall traps were added. We trapped or observed two salamander, 15 anuran, five turtle, one crocodilian, seven lizard, and 17 snake species. Particularly noteworthy captures were four eastern tiger salamanders (Ambystoma t. tigrinum), 143 Florida gopher frogs (Rana capito aesopus), and one short-tailed snake (Stilosoma extenuatum). Recapture rates during the second year of the study ranged from 0% to 13.0% for anuran species and 6.4% to 48.8% for lizard species. Six species were significantly more common in sandhill than in xeric hammock, particularly the six-lined racerunner (Cnemidophorus s. sexlineatus), and nine species were more common in xeric hammock than in sandhill. Differences in certain habitat characteristics and proximity to the marsh probably determined the abundance of some species at arrays. Terrestrial arrays nearest the marsh tended to capture more amphibians, many of which were postmetamorphic. During both years, significantly more juveniles than adults were trapped for six anuran species, whereas >70% of all captures of six other anuran species were adults. Five anuran species were more abundant in upland habitats during the first year, when substantially more rain fell, but barking treefrogs (Hyla gratiosa) and bullfrogs (Rana catesbeiana) were more abundant during the second year. The six-lined racerunner was the only reptile species whose abundance differed between years. Despite past stocking of game fish into May Prairie, fishes had apparently been eliminated by subsequent drought(s), which allowed successful reproduction by amphibian species that typically use small, temporary wetlands. Anurans and reptiles more characteristic of permanent wetlands were also present. Results of this study underscore the importance of xeric hammocks to some species (especially postmetamorphic anurans) and of maintaining fish-free wetlands.
24319419|A group of bass exposed to black sided aquaria darkened and fed poorly; those exposed to white sided aquaria were paler and fed well but, when backgrounds were reversed, anticipated response to black background was minimal.
24319502|Knowledge of rates of evapotranspiration and their variation within Florida is necessary for development of a rational water resources management program for the state. A method is presented for use of temperature and precipitation data to determine spatial distribution of average annual rates of evapotranspiration across Florida. Although the method gives only a first order approximation of true distribution, it has practical utility for water resources management.
24320560|The responses of three amphibian and two reptilian species to Hurricane Andrew were recorded in an urban setting. Immediate responses to the hurricane boded well for species with a high colonizing potential. Short-term effects of the hurricane were beneficial for all but Anolis equestris. Anurans especially benefitted by stimulation to breed and by the creation of suitable egglaying sites. Cleanup activities by humans have altered long-term effects of the hurricane and minimized short-term benefits associated with the newly created habitats and/or breeding sites made available to most of these colonizing species following the hurricane. Cleanup activities notwithstanding, responses confirmed expectations of successful colonizers historically tied to hurricanes.
24321028|The relationship between oral jaw biomechanics and consumption of hard prey was compared between Gulf of Mexico (Gulf) and Atlantic Ocean (Atlantic) populations of gray triggerfish (Balistes capriscus) to examine intraspecific ecomorphological variation between these fish. Gut content analysis revealed that Atlantic fish fed more on hard-shelled invertebrates, such as crabs and sea urchins, than Gulf conspecifics. Difference in the relative magnitude of durophagy between Gulf and Atlantic triggerfish was associated with intraspecific differences in key biomechanical properties of the prey-capture and processing mechanism. The more durophagous Atlantic B. capriscus had more massive jaw bones and muscles than Gulf fish. The mechanical advantage of the lower jaw appeared to be less reflective of the dietary differences between fish from both locations. We hypothesize that B. capriscus has the ability to alter the development of its feeding mechanism to match the requirements for capturing and processing locally available prey-resources at post-recruitment habitats in the Atlantic and Gulf coasts of Florida.
24320409|A one-dimensional model of circulation and salinity transport within the Indian River lagoon system is presented. The model is based on the cross-sectionally averaged continuity equation, momentum equation, mass conservation equation for salt, and equation of state. A fractional step method and time-implicit scheme are used in the finite-difference model. The model is used to examine the role of pure barotropic tidal hydrodynamics and to explore the time scales of salinity transport in the lagoon. Model simulation of barotropic tidal circulation in Indian River lagoon successfully reproduced the water level measured during a 3-day episode in September 1984. Model simulation of tide-induced salinity transport in Indian River lagoon indicates a very long response time on the order of 100 tidal cycles. The presence of a uniform wind stress of 1 dyne/cm2 from the South enhances the salinity transport and reduces the response time to 10 to 20 tidal cycles. Results indicate that long-term flow and salinity data are needed for understanding and modeling the circulation and salinity transport within the Indian River lagoon.
24319644|A pair of asymmetrical twin turtles is described and illustrated. Twinning in which 2 completely separate individuals have been produced, and eggs in which 2 or more blastodiscs have been reported are discussed. A summary of all previously published accounts of chelonian twinning is presented.
24319696|Variation in plantar tubercles of Peromyscus floridanus was reported. The typical number was 5 per hind foot; however, the number present may range from 3-6. A tendency was demonstrated for an additional pad to be present on mice of sand-pine-scrub habitats. The additional pad may be adaptive where climbing is advantageous.
24319557|Six species of seagrasses are found in the Indian River with Syringodium filiforme and Halodule wrightii being the most abundant. S. filiforme exhibits a disjunct distribution within the study area. Drift algae accumulations, difficult to distinguish from grassbeds by aerial photoanalysis alone, are extensive in some locations and apparently play an important role in the River's total ecosystem. Over the last 30 yr the Indian River has not experienced major seagrass bed losses documented in other estuaries.
24319714|X-ray powder diffraction patterns and related data are presented for 6 phosphate minerals. The existing X-ray data for these minerals are inferior and the information presented here should serve as a much improved standard for identification.
24320768|In 1994, nesting by the green turtle (Chelonia mydas) was documented for the first time along the southwest coast of Florida. Twenty-nine nests were recorded in five southwest Florida counties. At least seven to ten turtles were thought to be responsible for this nesting activity. Green turtle nesting was also discovered in three Panhandle counties where it had not been previously reported. Overall, the number of counties in Florida where green turtle nesting had been documented increased during 1994 from 14 to 22. Evidence is presented that green turtles had nested in southwest Florida in 1992 but that these nests had been missed by surveys. One green turtle was tagged and mistakenly identified as a loggerhead while nesting on the southwest coast in 1992. This turtle was subsequently observed nesting on the east coast in 1994, suggesting that the green turtles that nest on the west coast may be a part of the much larger aggregation of turtles that nest on the east coast. The fact that green turtles nest on the southwest coast of Florida shows that this species does indeed nest along low-energy coastlines and shows that nesting surveys may not always detect nesting by rare species.
24321412|Biogeographical distributions of Harmful Algal Bloom (HAB) species has become an increasing important issue in light of the serious economic and health impacts they can have on coastal environments. Until the current study, the presence of the HAB species Pyrodinium bahamense had not been documented in the St. Lucie Estuary. In the current study, five sites in the inner and outer St. Lucie estuary were sampled monthly from June 2005- September 2006. P. bahamense was observed at two sites, in the outer reaches of the St. Lucie Estuary. Vegetative stages were observed at both sites and the hypnozygote cyst stage was observed at the outermost site. The region of the estuary where P. bahamense was observed is characterized by short water residence times and mesohaline salinities. The abundances of P. bahamense observed in the St. Lucie Estuary were similar to those observed in the mid Indian River Lagoon near the Sebastian Inlet, but much lower than those found in the northern lagoon.. The observation of resting cysts of P. bahamense in the St. Lucie Estuary suggests that a seed bank for this species exists in the region.
24320664|Analysis of a simple classroom physics demonstration indicates that conservation of angular momentum can lead to conservation of energy. Interpreted within the framework of Noether's Theorem, this result suggests a classical connection between the properties of space and the properties of time.
24320492|In 1987-88, 14 populations of the gopher tortoise, Gopherus polyphemus (Daudin), residing on federal lands in Florida were surveyed. These populations had been surveyed in 1978-79. For the five lands for which surveys could be compared, it was found that the percent of burrows that were active increased on one of the lands, decreased on another, and remained about the same on the other three. No systematic differences in size distributions between surveys were correlated with the changes in the percent of burrows that were active. For two sites that were sampled completely, Everglades National Park and J.N. "Ding" Darling National Wildlife Refuge, the data permitted a more precise evaluation of the differences in size distributions between surveys. This evaluation clearly illustrated that substantial, and potentially detrimental, changes in population structure have taken place on at least one federal land. Because at least one population appeared to have declined, residence on "protected" land cannot be assumed to assure the continued existence of a population. It follows that gopher tortoise populations even on reserves need continuous monitoring and management to prevent their decline.
24319428|Eleven species and three varieties of Ilex are recognized for Florida. Keys, brief descriptions, pertinent synonymy, local uses, and distribution maps are provided for each taxon. The new combination Ilex ambigua var. monticola is proposed.
24320224|An analysis of soils from a high marsh and low marsh in northwestern Florida showed that they contained large amounts of sand, and were low in cation exchange capacity and exchangeable cations. The soils examined contained high levels of soluble salts. Soils from the low marsh had higher cation exchange capacities than did the layers below.
24321648|Lake Hancock is situated in the headwaters of the Peace River, and is identified as having an impact on water quality within the Peace River and Charlotte Harbor. Water quality in Lake Hancock has been verified as impaired for nutrients by the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, due to levels of total nitrogen, total phosphorus and biological oxygen demand that exceed the State of Florida's threshold values for impairment. This study examined the potential benefits of sediment removal on water quality in Lake Hancock. The project included two field experiments: (1) a manipulative experiment to determine if a reduction in nutrient availability could result in decreases in blue-green algal vigor and/or abundance and (2) a manipulative mesocosm experiment designed to evaluate whether partial removal of the lake's sediments would result in improvements in water quality. The findings were consistent with the hypothesis that Lake Hancock is a net sink for phosphorus loads that accumulate in the sediments and the lake is a net source of nitrogen which is exported from the lake. Only by reducing TP loads from both external and internal loading sources could TP levels be reduced to biologically relevant levels.
24320785|Turtle Mound, located 13 km south of New Smyrna Beach, Volusia County, Florida, is a shell midden built by the Timucua Indians. Its vegetation and soil were studied in 1971-73 and again twenty years later. Recent severe freezes have led to the disappearance of several tropical species that were at or near their northern limit. These include the following taxa: Cereus gracilis var. simpsonii; Exothea paniculata; Sideroxylon foetidissimum, Ocotea coriacea and Schoepfia chrysophylloides. However, frequency of more temperate woody plants has increased along with several vines, (Cissus trifoliata, Cynanchum scoparium, Parthenocissus quinquefolia, and Ipomea indica).
24319571|Fluorescent antibody reactivity of yeast phase cell walls of Histoplasma capsulatum hydrolyzed in mild acid decreases rapidly to a point of no reactivity, then reappears upon continued hydrolysis. Rate of decrease as well as intensity of the returned fluorescence depends upon the normality of the acid used. As the fluorescent antibody reactivity of the walls decreased, material released into the supernates of hydrolysis inhibited passive hemagglutination of histoplasmin-sensitized sheep erythrocytes and inhibited the fluorescence of unhydrolyzed cell walls. These activities disappeared with continued hydrolysis and did not reappear with the return of fluorescence of the hydrolyzed cell walls.
24320190|Previous estimates of hydrogen fluoride fluxes from cooling and gypsum settling ponds associated with the manufacture of phosphate fertilizer are reviewed and a theoretical estimate based on vapor pressures of HF-H20 solutions is presented. The latter yields fluxes from 122 to 195 kg HF/day for a 450 metric ton P2O5/day plant. Sixty percent or more of the total plant release of HF is due to the ponds. Derived atmospheric residence times for HF (1 to 5 hr.) indicate that fluoride is dispersed throughout Central Florida at ppb levels in the particulate form and may be an environmental hazard to adjacent agricultural industry.
24319675|The Syllabus-Notebook method of presenting the "Big Ideas" in the physical sciences has resulted in improved performance by students enrolled to meet general education requirements.
24319458|A live, but injured, gravid female ca. 3 m long had ovaries 77 cm  7.7 cm containing ca. 139,000 eggs averaging 2.57 mm diam.
24320344|Copper, iron and zinc concentrations were determined for muscle, gill and liver tissue from 45 black mullet (Mugil cephalus) collected in Turkey Creek, an embayment of the Indian River Lagoon, Florida. In the liver, Fe concentrations (2420  1040 g/g, dry wt) were higher than for Cu (510  350 g/g) and Zn (330  120g/g). Gill tissue iron levels (380  140 g/g) were greater than those for Zn (96  26 g/g) and Cu (6.3  4.4 g/g). Muscle tissue concentrations were lowest with Fe values (19  15 g/g) greater than those for Zn (13.5  4.9 g/g) and Cu (1.1  1.6 g/g). Significant correlations were observed for Cu, Fe and Zn in the gills, and Fe and Cu, and Fe and Zn in the liver. Metal concentrations generally did not covary with whole fish wt or length. Cu, Fe and Zn in the muscle and Cu in the gills show differing degrees of non-normal, positive skewness.
24320149|The Carrefour Raymond Marble, which is mined in the vicinity of Jacmel, is one of Haiti's better known commercial marbles. Technically, it is not a marble because it has not been metamorphosed. Rather, it is a limestone breccia composed of highly angular fragments of white limestone in a reddish-brown calcareous matrix. The white limestone fragments have been derived from the adjacent mountain front, which is composed of massive, gray-weathering Eocene limestones. The marble's matrix is composed of secondary calcite and a residual red clay that was derived from the upland plateaus. It is proposed that the marble originated from clay and limestone fragments accumulated in the solution holes of a karst topography. The resulting limestone breccia was subsequently cemented by secondary calcite, leached from the surrounding limestones by rain and underground water and then precipitated in the interstices of the breccia during dry periods. The marine fossils that are occasionally found in the Carrefour Raymond Marble are thought to have been derived from elevated marine terraces that once lay higher on the mountainside.
24319383|Promotion of cheap electricity and gas for mass-produced water heaters in the post World War II era led to the demise of the solar energy industry in Florida. The recent OPEC oil crisis precipitated renewed interest in solar energy for many uses. Solar water heaters are a mainstay for domestic users and construction materials, design parameters and designs are provided with notice of limitations of each type. Flat plate collectors have advantages over concentrating collectors for domestic use but are more limited in applications where temperatures more than 180F are required. Beyond domestic water heating, solar energy can be stored for cooking or for heating and cooling a house but these uses are not yet cost-competitive with fossil fuels. Recovery of potable water by solar stills has been important in the past and is re-emerging with some urgency as population pressure creates increasing demands on available supplies. Entry of new disciplines into consideration of solar energy holds promise for expanded exploitation of our only continuously renewed natural resourcethe sun.
24320210|Site-season combinations were sought which might reduce the invasion potential of the exotic tree, melaleuca (Melaleuca quinquenervia), by subjecting germinants to lethal stresses. Seeds were sown 12 times during a 15-mo period on 2 study sites in an undrained area of Lee County, Florida. The sites represented the wet and dry ends of an ecotone between cypress (Taxodium spp.) and slash pine (Pinus elliottii var densa) communities. No season was totally lethal at either site, based on seedling presence 5 mo after sowing. Establishment was never dense, but was rarely zero. Some seeds germinated 6 mo after the majority of seeds in the same sowing. Freely available moisture was essential for germination and establishment  prolonged surface flooding was inhibitory. All seedlings grew slowly. A management strategy is suggested to minimize the invasion potential from isolated melaleuca seedtrees.
24320945|The phosphorus (P) requirement of the dioecious submersed aquatic plant hydrilla [Hydrilla verticillata (L.f.) Royle], was studied by culturing plants from vegetative propagules in nutrient solutions simulating natural levels and containing bicarbonate and 0, 2, or 4 M P concentrations. Plants were harvested after 14, 21, 28, 35 and 50 days growth in order to follow the effects of the treatments on the time course of growth and P and bicarbonate utilization. The dry weight, total P accumulation, and bicarbonate utilization of plants increased with greater concentrations of P in solutions and longer growth time. Bicarbonate utilization was significantly related to increase in plant dry weight and P accumulation. The accumulation of P in tissue was proportional to concentration of P in solution. The total P content of plants grown without added P remained constant through 7 weeks of growth. The P reserves in the propagules of these plants were sufficient to produce a dry matter yield of 1127 mg after 50 days. The addition of 1.3 mg P in the 2 M P treatments produced a 57% increase in yield over the same time period, or nearly 500 mg tissue per mg of added P. Approximately 72% of the P supplied in solution was absorbed by the plants in both the 2 and 4 M P treatments. The results of this study suggest that hydrilla has a low requirement for P and is able to utilize bicarbonate as a carbon source for photosynthesis.
24320215|Sand pine and sandhill forests were compared with regard to the rates of litter-fall, litter standing crop, and litter turnover. Litter-fall rates in the sand pine and sandhill were low (330 and 278 g/m2yr, respectively), litter standing crop was high (averaging 1367 and 842 g/m2, respectively), and litter turnover rate was low (0.21 and 0.33 times/yr, respectively). These results and the simple structure of the forests were attributed to the extreme harshness of their respective environments (low nutrient concentrations in soils, water stress, and fires). However, the pattern of litter-fall was different in the 2 forests, probably reflecting different responses to fire frequency and nutrient availability. The sandhill forest retained its leaves longer and dropped them over a longer time period than did the sand pine forest. Because fires are more frequent in sandhill environments and because the forest floor of sandhills is exposed to more wind than that of sand pine forests, it is suggested that this strategy of leaf retention is advantageous for maintaining nutrients within the ecosystem.
24320123|The first specimen of the silver-haired bat, Lasionycteris noctivagans, ever taken in Florida was recorded near the Escambia River, 5 miles west of Jay in Santa Rosa County on September 6, 1985. It is a young adult female taken in a mist net, and extends the known geographical range of Lasionycteris noctivagans southward about 110 miles into a new state.
24320459|The zooplankton of two impounded salt marshes and that of shallow areas of the Indian River Lagoon, in east-central Florida are compared. A total of 63 distinct taxa were collected during the two-year study. The copepods Oithona nana and Acartia tonsa accounted for almost 90 % of the total number of individuals captured. Mean plankton density at the study sites was 403,291 individuals per cubic meter, which is somewhat higher than densities reported in similar studies elsewhere. There were significant differences in numbers of taxa and densities between sites and years. Average number of taxa was highest at the less isolated sites, whereas densities were highest at a site with intermediate isolation, and lowest at the most isolated site. Peaks in zooplankton densities occurred in late summer and early fall and followed the first heavy rains of the season. Isolating an impounded marsh from the lagoon during the summer by closing the culverts connecting the two areas did not appear to have a significant impact upon the zooplankton communities of either site, but maintaining an impounded marsh isolated during the whole year may have resulted in reduced zooplankton density and diversity.
24319677|An analysis of ocean tide patterns is used to explain the difficulties in determining the mean high water mark in Florida. Seasonal oscillations of the sea are so related to tide intervals that a submergence periodicity on the tidelands is created which is unique to the state. The high marsh remains dry during one part of the year and is almost continuously tide-flooded during the other. Important differences between Atlantic and Gulf coasts are demonstrated. The high marsh, located between mean neap high and mean spring high tide levels, occupies more of the tidelands in Florida than the low marsh. For the protection of tidelands it is recommended that they be delineated by their vegetation until more tidal bench marks are available.
24319907|Limited test excavations were conducted at a small shell midden located near the shore of Boca Ciega Bay in St. Petersburg, Florida. Ceramics recovered from the site indicate that the midden was deposited during the late Weeden Island-related period, or about A.D. 800-1000. A pre-midden, pre-ceramic occupation is also evident which may date as early as the middle to late Archaic period, or about 4000-2000 B.C. Analysis of the subsistence remains indicates a heavy reliance on shellfish, particularly oyster (Crassostrea virginica) and bay scallop (Aequipectin irradians), with only minor evidence for other marine or terrestrial species.
24320542|Five Big Cypress fox squirrels (Sciurus niger avicennia) were radio-collared and translocated from Naples, Florida, to Big Cypress National Preserve (BICU). Fox squirrels survived trapping and immediate release. Site fidelity was inconsistent and movements may be attributed to dispersal, post release investigative behavior, or food availability. Habitat use of translocated fox squirrels shifted among seasons. Translocated fox squirrels sought out suitable habitat and resident populations.
24319655|An isolated reproducing population of the pirambeba, Serrasalmus humeralis, was recently discovered at a Dade County, Florida tourist attraction. Twenty to 25 unidentified Serrasalmus sp. had been stocked into the 'piranha pool' in 1963 or 1964. The only fish kill noted during the 13 to 14 yr history of this population occurred during a severe drought in 1971 when the pool dried into a small mud-puddle. A few S. humeralis survived this drought and continued reproducing. When renovated, the piranha pool yielded 53 pirambebas in 3 distinct size classes ranging from 21-305 mm and 0.1-830 g. A lower lethal temperature of 11C was identified when these fish were subjected to decreasing water temperatures at a rate of 1C/day. This lethal temperature and an analysis of mean monthly temperatures suggest there is more suitable serrasalmin habitat in Florida than previously recognized. Serrasalmus humeralis were found to be relatively tolerant to rotenone with one individual surviving a 72 hr exposure to 2 ppm 5% emulsified rotenone. This population substantiates previous conclusions that members of the genus Serrasalmus can become established in Florida.
24319464|This first report is based upon both a female and male which were examined with subsequent observations on the skull of the more deformed female. Nearly all bones were modified by being thinner and mis-shapen compared to normal.
24321895|Rosemary scrub, a shrub community of acidic, sandy, well drained soils in Florida, is maintained by periodic, intense fires that occur at long fire intervals (2040 years). These slightly elevated balds or knolls are primarily restricted to the St. Lucie fine sand soil series in Pinellas County. Over the past 40 years nearly 95% of scrub vegetation has disappeared due to fragmentation, edge effect, fire suppression and development. Data were collected to document species composition and diversity in what we describe as the last remaining rosemary bald in Pinellas County. A total of 26 plant species occur within the rosemary bald and the adjacent sand pine forest. Gaps are colonized primarily by herbaceous, endemic scrub species and several lichens. Studies have shown that allelopathy by rosemary litter and roots may partially explain the bare zones or gaps between shrubs. Preliminary removal experiments indicate that in large gaps, scrub herbs increase in densities. Due to fire suppression, the overall cover by rosemary has decreased over the past 5 years as the majority of the rosemary shrubs begin to reach senescence and sand pine and scrub oak encroach from the edges. The rarity of this unique ecosystem and the long term requirement for fire management suggests that the county should consider this site for future land acquisition.
24321174|HPLC-derived data on the chlorophylls (-a, -b,-c1/-c2) and pheopigments were compared to those derived from the spectrophotometric analysis of Florida Bay seston. This comparison was prompted by the rather wide spread in data from a 1996 seven-laboratory inter-laboratory comparison of chlorophyll determination in Florida Bay samples. 244 water samples from north-central and western Florida Bay phytoplankton collected during monthly sampling events (09/0006/02) were analyzed. The spectrophotometric determination of chlorophyll-a (CHLa), using 5 separate published equations and 1 commercial data manipulation program (ChlCalc), gave quite acceptable results (y = 0.91691.0914X; R2 = 0.93610.9987) for CHLa, as compared to the HPLC-PDA (X) data. The determination of pheopigments with the commercial program gave better results (y = 1.0631X, R2 = 0.463) than the classic determination using Lorenzen's (1967) equation (y = 11.178X, R2 = 0.0271), but it too proved inadequate determining community "health" (viz. senescence, predation, resuspension). Comparisons of the determination of the chlorophylls -b- or -c1/-c2 by spectrophotometry versus HPLC-derived data showed that such measures were highly inaccurate, as R2 values were close to zero (-0.16 to 0.04) and the slope ("m" in y = mX) gave overestimations of 1.85.6. It is concluded that valid CHLa estimates can indeed be made using spectrophotometric measures on 90% acetone extracts of Florida Bay seston (Whatman GF/F filters). However, using such polychromatic equations, it is also concluded that no meaningful estimates of pheopigments or alternate chlorophylls (-b, -c1/-c2) are possible using these methods on Florida Bay bioseston.
24320482|A survey of owners/operators of ornamental horticulture firms was conducted to determine the employment patterns of men and women. Results from employers representing over 3,000 workers indicated that men and women are concentrated in different types of jobs and sectors of the industry. Implications of the findings are discussed.
24321599|The Rotenberger Wildlife Management Area (RWMA) historically comprised a portion of the northern Everglades. The area was impounded and hydrologically isolated during the 1950s. As a result, the area became solely a rainfall-driven system, and the vegetation community slowly transitioned from wetland species to upland species. In 1994, the area was targeted for hydropattern restoration, and began receiving discharge from a constructed treatment wetland (Stormwater Treatment Area, STA-5) in 2001. The STA discharge greatly increased the area's hydroperiod for several years; however, in 20062007 South Florida experienced a severe drought, and STA water was unavailable for discharge. As part of a long-term monitoring effort in the RWMA, qualitative vegetation surveys have been conducted biannually from 1998 through 2007. Plant species observed at monitoring locations within the marsh were identified and recorded. Data were organized into three hydrologic periods: the dry pre-discharge period (19982001), the wet post-discharge period (20022005), and the post-discharge drought period (20062007). The assemblage of plants found over the ten-year survey period includes 119 plants identified to species level from 49 vascular plant families. This species list can be utilized for further evaluations in this area and other Everglades areas that have experienced similar hydrologic conditions.
24319459|In summer, 1969, contents of 410 egret stomachs were studied. Spiders, especially wolf spiders, were found to be widely present in the diet.
24319461|A live male was collected about a mile inside the Pensacola Bay Entrance.
24320089|Specimens of Pontinus nematophthalmus, Scorpaenodes tredecimspinosus, and Ectreposebastes imus taken in the western North Atlantic off the Carolinas represent northeastward extensions of the known ranges of these species. A specimen of Scorpaena agassizi captured off Cape Lookout, North Carolina, shows abnormalities of the dorsal fin and supporting structures.
24321112|Laboratory studies were conducted in order to assess the behavioral interactions between the shrew Blarina carolinensis and four species of sympatric mice (Peromyscus gossypinus, P. polionotus, Podomys floridanus, and Reithrodontomys humulis) in an open arena, both in the presence and absence of mouse nestlings. In arenas containing an adult female mouse and her offspring, the mean number of approaches of shrews toward rodents was significantly lower for those species of mice (P. gossypinus and P. floridanus) with a larger body size compared to shrews than for those that were similar in size to shrews. The 2 species of larger mice approached shrews to a greater extent than their smaller counterparts. Shrews attacked and killed at least one offspring of P. polionotus and R. humulis in 80 and 66.7% of the encounters, respectively, whereas the offspring of the larger mice P. gossypinus and P. floridanus were attacked far less frequently (13.3 and 0%, respectively). Young mice that were attacked by shrews were seized by their head or limbs, dragged out of the nest, and killed by a bite to the base of the skull. The cotton mouse, P. gossypinus exhibited the highest degree of aggression toward shrews and killed their antagonist in 3 out of 15 encounters. In encounter trials conducted in the absence of mouse offspring, there were no significant differences between approach frequencies of shrews and mice and all female mice appeared more tolerant of shrews. These experiments show that B. carolinensis can effectively attack and ingest nestlings of mice and that its ability to do so depends on the size of the mouse and its level of aggression.
24320440|Electron microscopy is used to observe mature and immature pollen of the tropical golden shrimp plant, Pachystachys lutea Nees. It is in a diverse family (Acanthaceae), that includes many showy, flowering vines and shrubs. Mature P. lutea pollen are prolate (average 72 m)  60 m in size), isopolar, and tricolporate. Its ornate exine surface has a reticulate pattern composed of winding muroid ridges that extend from a punctate tectum to delimit polygonal luminoid areas. Muri are thicker in mature pollen. Two pseudocolpi (shallow furrows without pores) fuse at the polar ends of the pollen to form ellipses in the mescolpium. Circular pores are features of the colpi at their widest diameter. In the final stages of exine maturation, its ektexinous components change ratios, i. e., the tectum and foot layers become thicker and the columellar layer becomes thinner.
24320530|The presence of a wide variety of organic contaminants in groundwater has required that additional treatment processes be added to the present treatment train in potable water treatment plants. The relevant drinking water quality standards have been summarized as well as the estimated risks some of these contaminants pose to the public.
24320268|The prevalence of Serratia marcescens, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Yersinia enterocolitica, Edwardsciella tarda and Chromobacterium violaceum was studied in 18 recreational waters in the North-Central Florida area. Samples were obtained during the summer 1979 and winter 1980. Temperature and pH were lower during winter and the incidence of the pathogens was higher during the winter. Overall, 44 % of the waters samples contained S. marcescens, 50% P. aeruginosa, 56% C. violaceum and 11% Y. enterocolitica. E. tarda was not found.
24320200|The demise of the tropical rain forest of Amazonia is proceeding as a result of frontier expansion by every country which borders on the Basin. In Bolivia, settlement of the humid lowlands is viewed as a solution to population pressures in the mountain regions and has been encouraged by government programs. As a result of the exigencies of traditional horticulture, the settler is locked into a system of shifting production. Normally under low density populations this system permits forest regeneration. In actuality, shifting horticulture is occurring under situations of high density population which when linked to mechanized agriculture frequently results in the conversion of forest tracts to grasslands.
24320681|Sediment contamination in freshwater systems of Collier County was investigated during April and AugustSeptember 1991 as a step towards developing baseline data on sediment quality and identify contaminated sites. Variables included total organic carbon, a suite of trace metals, organochlorine pesticides, and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons [PAH]. Anthropogenic enrichment of sediments by cadmium, copper, lead, and zinc was identified. The likelihood of biological perturbation by contaminants was also examined. The likelihood of biological impacts from trace metals was generally low. Pesticides were detected in >40% of the samples and at >50% of the stations during 1991. Chlordane and d-HCH were detected at the highest concentrations reported to date in Florida. PAH's were detected at extremely high concentrations (>20,000 ppb) in the Gordon River watershed. There was a high likelihood of biological effects due to contamination by chlordane at one location and by PAH's at two locations.
24321577|Determining the amount of habitat occupied by a species at local scales may improve conservation efforts because this information can aid in avoiding impacts to areas containing rare or protected species. We use data from central Florida, USA, to evaluate sampling techniques for the endemic sand skink (Plestiodon [formerly Neoseps] reynoldsi), a secretive fossorial lizard. We also provide empirical examples of ways to determine the amount of habitat sand skinks occupy and their spatial distribution within a study site. To quantitatively survey for sand skinks we used plywood coverboards, supplementing these surveys with more qualitative visual encounter surveys. During our studies, we found that sand skinks were most active in the fall (October and November), but were active during all months sampled (March  June and October  December). Sand skinks and other species associated with xeric habitats were more readily found underneath newer coverboards (left for < 5 weeks in the field), whereas species preferring mesic microhabitats (i.e., anurans) were more readily found underneath older coverboards (1 yr in the field). We also found more sand skink trails underneath coverboards than in open sandy areas between coverboards, even though coverboards sampled proportionately less area. Finally, we provide details on two different ways of determining the spatial distribution of sand skinks within a study site and discuss their various applications. Being able to sample for sand skinks efficiently will allow a more thorough understanding of which areas they inhabit, and this information can be used to better protect this threatened species.
24319542|A large skull and associated teeth of the extinct dire wolf (Canis dirus) from the Aucilla River, Jefferson County, Florida, more closely resemble dire wolves from Texas, Missouri, and Kentucky. Canis dirus may have been highly variable ontogenetically; or there may be a chronocline in dire wolf evolution, grading from small to large.
24319976|The development of the Department of Environmental Regulation (DER) pesticide program, based on a preventative strategy of ground water protection, is reviewed. Included is the current status of program activities in ground water protection, interagency pesticide activities, field studies and monitoring, and remediation provided through the statewide ethylene dihromide (EDB) clean-up. Future areas of emphasis for ground water protection through management of agricultural chemicals are reviewed.
24319631|Soft phosphate, a mixture of carbonate-substituted fluorapatite, crandallite, wavellite, montmorillonite, kaolinite, and quartz, bloats when it is heated above 1100C and is air quenched. It reaches a maximum volume (325% of the original volume) and a minimum specific gravity (0.6) at about 1300C. Bloating results from evolution of gas from some constituent(s) of the mixture (possibly the apatite or crandallite) as other constituents (probably the montmorillonite and kaolinite) begin to melt.
24320221|The ratio of convexity of the valves to the length of the valves is a factor in the burrowing habits of marine pelecypods. The pelecypods with a high percentage of convexity, 55% or greater, tend to be slow borrowers. Exceptions to this rule are the Cardiidae and Neotrigonia. Those that have a low percentage of convexity, less than 40%, tend to be rapid borrowers. Deposit-feeding groups of pelecypods commonly have a low percentage of convexity, are of small to medium size, and are rapid burrowers. Pelecypods that have a high percentage of convexity and spirally-enrolled prosogyrate beaks, as in Glossus, are sluggish, shallow-burrowing suspension feeders.
24321870|Fish communities were surveyed three times each year at 6 lotic habitats (small streams and manmade drainage ditches and canals) at Babcock Ranch, Charlotte and Lee Counties, Florida. Sampling methods were adopted from the baseline assessment of the Picayune Strand Restoration Project. Breder traps were deployed for one hour at each site for each sampling event. Active fish sampling with D-frame dip nets was also conducted for one hour at each location while traps were set. Data from passive and active sampling methods were combined for statistical analyses. A total of 26 fish species, representing 14 families were collected, including seven non-native fish species from four families. The most abundant fishes were native Gambusia holbrooki and non-native Hemichromis letourneuxi, respectively. Fish assemblages in canals were significantly different than in natural streams. Native sunfishes of the genus Lepomis were more abundant in streams than canals. Canals served as thermal refugia for non-native cichlids during severe cold weather events in 2009 and 2010. The removal of anthropogenic drainage canals and ditches, that serve as thermal refugia and pathways for dispersal for H. letourneuxi should benefit native fish species over time.
24321424|We studied the vertebrate component of the breeding season diet of the Northern crested caracara (Caracara cheriway) in south-central Florida, where this species occurs as an isolated population and is threatened by widespread habitat loss. From 75 prey remain samples collected at active nests in 40 different breeding areas during FebruaryJune 19941997, we identified 299 prey items representing 53 different prey types from 5 vertebrate classes and 37 families. Mammals comprised the largest proportion of all prey items (31.4%) followed by reptiles (24.1%), fish (23.7%), birds (13.4%), and amphibians (7.4%), and many of these items were probably taken alive. One hundred ninety-two prey items (64.2%, 17 different families) represented species that use wetlands during all or part of their life history, suggesting dependence of this raptor on wetlands for foraging, at least during the breeding season. Carrion comprised approximately 33% of the diet of nesting caracaras in Florida. Our results differ from those reported for the diet of crested caracaras in Mexico, Argentina, and Andean Patagonia possibly due to differences in habitat types and diversity, land use, and carrion availability.
24320609|The Loggerhead Shrike (Lanius ludovicianus) has been declining in numbers for most of the 20th century and is currently diminishing at about 5% per year. We present data on trends in numbers of shrikes in southcentral Florida based on roadside counts conducted along 505 km of roads, twice a year in summer and winter, from 1974 to 1981, in January 1989, July 1991, and January and July 1992. The annual mean count method indicates that from 1976 to 1992 the winter population declined at the rate of 37%, and the summer counts by 41%. The magnitude of the decline documented by us is greater than that recorded by Breeding Bird Surveys for the species nationwide.
24321541|Identifying a species that is in decline or undergoing a range contraction is a critical first step in conservation. During the late 1990s, a once stable population of Limpkins (Aramus guarauna) on the Wakulla River in North Florida declined and then became extirpated. To determine whether this was an isolated occurrence or part of a larger trend, I used Christmas Bird Count data to test for spatial and temporal changes in Limpkin populations in Florida. A weighted, linear regression model indicated that Limpkins have undergone a sustained decline in the northern portions of their range. During the last 25 years, Limpkins have declined significantly by 47.7% in the northern counts while not having any significant change in the southern counts. The number of Limpkins observed statewide actually increased between 1970 and 2007. However, when corrected for unit effort, there have been no significant, statewide changes in Limpkins. This study indicates that the decline of Limpkins on the Wakulla River may not be part of a state-wide trend but part of a long-term contraction in the northern portions of their range. Identifying the factors driving the range contraction should be a focus of future studies.
24321426|The recycling index is a measure of the extent of recycling that occurs in selected counties and in the state of Florida, and has been defined as being equal to the recycling percentage/target percentage. The recycling percentage was defined as 100  the amount of material recycled in a given year divided by the total solid municipal waste. The legislatively mandated target in the past was 30% for most counties in Florida. Data for calendar years 19952002 indicated that the overall recycled percentage decreased from the high thirties to about 2728%. When the target percentage was 30%, the Recycling Index would have been as great as 1.33; with a greater target of 50%, the Recycling Index would be closer to 0.56.
24320752|To determine if disturbance affected the growth and flowering of Deeringothamnus rugelii, twelve experimental blocks were selected in a pasture where this species is abundant, near New Symrna Beach. Each block consisted of three treatments. One plant was subjected to fire, another to clearing by clipping all above ground growth, and the third plant was an unmanipulated control. We monitored vegetative growth, floral, and fruit production for four months. Disturbance significantly enhanced vegetative and floral output. Fruits were also produced in the disturbed treatments while none developed in the controls. No differences were observed among the treatments the following year.
24321416|Along with race and gender, socio-economic status (SES) is one of the three cornerstones of social stratification in the United States. It has been found to have a strong association with various health outcome measures, including life expectancy at birth. Earlier research found that high socio-economic populations in both Arkansas and Mississippi experienced a relative increase in mean life expectancy over low socio-economic populations between 1970 and 1990, an important period in terms of social and health policy because social welfare programs that were at a peak in 1970 had been significantly reduced by 1990. This paper extends this analysis to Florida. Using a comparison of means as well as dummy regression analysis in conjunction with estimates of life expectancy and socio-economic status (SES), we find that between 1970 and 1990, high SES populations in Florida gained between at least two and as much as four additional years of life expectancy over low SES populations. This finding supports research that SES plays a role in differential life expectancy. It has implications for current national health policy in that the U. S. Department of Health and Human Services has as one of its two key goals, the elimination of health disparities by 2010.
24319845|The vegetation of the Archbold Biological Station (ABS, 1590 ha), one of the largest and most representative examples of the natural landscape of the southern end of the Florida Lake Wales Ridge, is described. The major associations include: southern ridge sandhills, sand pine scrub, scrubby flatwoods, flatwoods, swale, bayhead, and seasonal ponds. Sandhills, scrub, and scrubby flatwoods occur on more elevated and well-drained sands, while the remaining types occupy less elevated and more poorly drained soils. Plant species diversity (H) was highest for sandhills and scrubby flatwoods, lowest for scrub (rosemary phase) and swale. Horn's index of community similarity (R0) showed 2 clusters of associations: (1) the well-drained scrub, scrubby flatwoods, and southern ridge sandhills and (2) the poorly drained flatwoods, swales, and bayheads. This analysis also indicated that bayhead, swale, and rosemary scrub were the least similar to other ridge associations. Ridge associations are influenced by fire and each association differs in flammability, modal fire frequency, and resiliency. Evidence indicates that long-term successional changes in the associations studied are extremely slow, with the associations of well-drained sites being especially stable. Stability of microclimate in 5 of the major associations ranked: bayhead > mature scrub > flatwoods > sandhills > scrubby flatwoods. Historical natural (e.g., hurricanes, fires) and anthropogenic (e.g., turpentining, logging, grazing) influences on the vegetation associations of the study area have resulted in little change in species composition, indicating that ridge associations are relatively stable. The vegetation types at ABS were compared to similar associations in other parts of Florida, noting geographical extents and the unique features of southern Lake Wales Ridge associations. At ABS, 43 out of a total of 470 species (9% of the flora) are endemic to Florida. Nine of the 43 endemics are confined to the Lake Wales Ridge, with 3 additional ridge endemics near or adjacent to, but not on, the study area proper.
24320295|The Atlantic sturgeon is reported for the first time from Charlotte Harbor and is an extension of the known range.
24320468|Trace metal and pesticide contents of sediments and producer and consumer organisms were analyzed from samples taken from 18 stations off the Florida Keys from Biscayne National Park to the Dry Tortugas. Samples were analyzed for total mercury, tin (inorganic and organic), arsenic (inorganic and methylated), lead, copper, cadmium, and halogenated pesticides. Pesticide concentrations were below detection limits. Observed ranges (as ppm) were: arsenic: <0.2 (sediments), 0-1.7 (producers), 0.1-2.2 (consumers); cadmium: 0.2-1.2 (sediments, <0.1-1.8 (producers), 0.7-22 (consumers); copper: 0.8-3.8 (sediments) 0.8-3.5 (producers) 1.5-38 (consumers); lead 0.8-4.5 (sediments) 1.0-4.9 (producers) 1.8-60 (consumers); mercury, <0.1 (sediments) <0.1 (producers), 0.02-0.4 (consumers); tin 0.002-0.2 (sediments), <0.08 (producers) <0.1-13 (consumers). In general, concentrations of trace metals increased from sediments to producers to consumers at each station. Though the concentrations tended to be low, some deviations were ascribed to human inputs. Fewer significant correlations were observed than expected possibly because of the dependence of the uptake mechanism upon the ability of the system (sediment, producer, consumer) to remove trace metals from particular materials. Sponges have this ability and may represent a useful means of monitoring the quality of the environment on a sustained basis. The results are generally consistent with a relatively clean environment with some localized anthropogenic effects.
24319807|Hemoglobin and demographic data were obtained from 6,078 Black Americans tested in Tampa. Males comprised 41.7 % of the sample; 58.5 % was age 0-14 yrs and 35.9 % was 15-44 yrs old. Genotypically, the sample was 88.91 % AA, 9.64 % AS and 2.45 % AC, CC, SS or SC. For those within the sample of known birthplace, non-Southerners differ significantly from Southerners and non-urban Southerners, but not from urban Southerners as to genotype frequency. Rural Southern Blacks have the highest AS and total hemoglobinopathy frequencies; non-Southern Blacks have the lowest. Differential admixture of American Blacks and Anglo Americans is the most plausible primary explanation of this.
24319633|Pomacentrus variabilis undergoes a morphological color change from bright blue and yellow as a juvenile (age 0) to a uniform dark color as an adult (age I + ). Color change involves melanogenesis and a decrease in skin carotenoid concentration during the first autumn and winter; carotenoid content of the skin increases until the fish reach 40-60 mm SL, after which the total content decreases. The carotenoid pigments in P. variabilis appear to be di-hydroxy -carotenes.
24320636|Metal complexes having a chiral carbon center can precisely discriminate between enantiotropic atoms, groups, or faces in achiral molecules and catalyze production of a broad array of natural and synthetic substances of excellent enantiomeric purity. This work describes attempts to use as catalysts metal complexes of the type M[RCOCHC(NR)R]2, which have overall chirality and which can be resolved. Nickel(II) and copper(II) compounds were studied. The former, when resolved, have smaller racemization rates, but they did not catalyze the reaction of interest at reasonable yields. The copper(II) compounds catalyzed the desired reaction, but the enantiomeric purity was poor, presumably because of the rate of racemization of the chiral catalyst.
24321037|The capture of an exceptionally large redbellied pacu in Brevard County is documented. The redbellied pacu measured 841 mm total length and is the largest specimen on record in Florida. Gonad histology showed a mature female with oocytes in late maturation stage, or class 4. The condition of the oocytes also indicated that female red bellied pacu may possibly be synchronous spawners. Stomach contents consisted of cabbage palm seeds, sour orange seeds, and clupeid fish bones. The size and advanced stage of sexual maturation of the redbellied pacu described in this study suggests that the species is able to withstand Florida's winter cold and to reach reproductive stage.
24319614|The range is extended 200 miles westward in Florida.
24319833|Seventy nurse sharks (Ginglymostoma cirratum) were tagged and released from Big Pine Key, Florida with combinations of stainless steel barbed tags, plastic barbed tags, and modified Carlin disc tags. Twenty percent of the tagged sharks were recovered; 35% of the animals tagged with only stainless steel barbed tags were recovered; 21% of those tagged with both plastic barbed tags and Carlin disc tags were recovered. Disc tags remained in place more frequently than plastic barbed tags, but showed significant damage to tagged animals over time when applied to juvenile animals.
24319517|The oldest known shell-cemented pelecypods are Mississippian in age. Shell cementation has never been a common adaptation by pelecypods, and only about 1.0% of all living species of pelecypods are shell cemented.
24321825|Quinine (Q, C20H23N2O2) is historically one of the best known natural products. In this study LC-MS, 1H and 13C NMR, and MALDI-TOF-MS as well as computational techniques are utilized to study the copper(II)-quinine interaction. These techniques are used to probe (1) the formation of a quinine-quinine dimer and (2) that the copper (II) cation can accommodate two quinines (bidentate) in solution (i.e CuQ2). This study shows this metal ligand complex is dynamic in the aqueous phase. It involves the cation interacting with the nitrogen, oxygen and pi bonds on the quinine molecule. This complex shares similar chemical and physical attributes (volume, surface area, dipole moment) with the well-known natural products vinblastine and vincristine. It was tested against the National Cancer Institute's 60 cell lines and found to have activity similar to Cu(II) salt and quinine (separate), and not vinblastine or vincristine.
24321570|Little is known concerning home range and activity of large terrestrial snakes. During the course of an inventory of a large biological preserve in north-central Florida, 5 individuals of Drymarchon and Masticophis were tracked from 49 to 322 days. A single eastern indigo snake had a home range of 100185 ha depending on estimator, whereas the coachwhips used smaller home ranges that varied individually and by season. We provide information on ecdysis, feeding activity, and retreat sites for the 5 tracked individuals; these are the first such data on free-ranging coachwhips. Gopher tortoise and small mammal burrows were important retreat sites for both species, particularly during ecdysis. Both species frequented uplands habitats, with coachwhips using longleaf pine/xeric oak sandhills and former pastures, and the eastern indigo snake preferring upland mixed pine and hardwoods. Although sample sizes are small, these results, coupled with data on the movements of other upland species, suggest that large terrestrial snakes require substantial amounts of contiguous habitat in order to maintain populations.
24319439|New populations of the introduced thiarid snail, Melanoides tuberculata, were found in fresh water canals of Dade and Collier counties and in the saline mangrove areas adjacent to Biscayne Bay in the Matheson Hammock-Snapper Creek area of Coral Gables. No trematode larvae were discovered in specimens examined but the extension of the snail into brackish and marine waters increases the possibility of spread of avian trematode infection because of increased numbers of potential intermediate crustacean hosts available in the mangrove habitat.
24320334|The average, annual total phytoplankton cell density in the Indian River near Vero Beach was 1.38 X 1010 cells m-3 and the average net (>20 m) phytoplankton cell density was 9.88 X 107 cells m-3. Average total chlorophyll a for the year was 10.69 mg m-3 and 3.42 mg m-3 for the total and net fractions respectively. This portion of the river was characterized by relatively high nutrient concentrations. Yearly mean values for total nitrogen, orthophosphate and silicate were 9.24 M, 1.79 M and 53.67 M, respectively. Most biological standing stock belonged to the phytoplankton size fraction passing through a 20 m mesh net. These nanophytoplankton accounted for 99.3% of the cell density, 90.7% of the biomass and 78.0% of the active chlorophyll a observed throughout the year study. Variations in diatom cell densities accounted for most total phytoplankton cell density fluctuations. Skeletonema costatum (Grev.) Cl. was the dominant diatom in terms of numbers and biomass. The initial spring bloom was comprised mainly of relatively small chain-forming diatom species of the genera Chaetoceros, Nitzschia and Thalassiosira. This pulse was followed by a period of increased phytoflagellate and dinoflagellate numbers. The diatom genera during this period were Thalassiosira, Nitzschia and Skeletonema. The late summer-fall phytoplankton community was primarily composed of Chaetoceros, phytoflagellates, Thalassiosira, Skeletonema and Paralia. The late fall-winter phytoplankton community was dominated by phytoflagellates and a diatom assemblage comprised of Thalassiosira, Nitzschia and Skeletonema.
24320030|Although Bostrichobranchus pilularis has been reported from the Gulf of Mexico, descriptions are similar to those of B. digonas. Developmental stages of B. digonas are described and shown to be distinct from those of B. pilularis. Published literature and information presented here indicate that B. digonas is present in shallow water between central and northwestern Florida.
24321810|Low-temperature tolerances of two non-native fishes established in Florida (Hoplosternum littorale, Cichlasoma bimaculatum) were obtained with laboratory experiments using the CTmin methodology wherein temperatures were lowered by 1 C h-1. The results were compared to two other non-native cichlid fishes tested in the same manner (Cichlasoma urophthalmus, Hemichromis letourneuxi) in a previous study. Cichlasoma bimaculatum lost equilibrium at 12.6C and died 8.6C, similar to other cichlid fishes from south Florida. Hoplosternum littorale, a South American catfish, tolerated significantly lower temperatures than the cichlids, losing equilibrium at 7.8C and dying once temperatures reached 5.7C. The difference in low-temperature tolerance of these species is reflected in their introduced geographic distributions in Florida; H. littorale ranges much farther north than the cichlid species. Laboratory experiments such as these may be useful in risk assessment and screening of newly introduced non-native fishes.
24320721|Seagrass communities provide critical habitat and water quality benefits to fish and wildlife resources. Recent improvements in water quality have resulted in natural recolonization of seagrass in selected locations within Tampa Bay. However, propeller damage from increased boating activity may negate gains in natural seagrass expansion. A survey of shallow, subtidal seagrass meadows has determined the baywide extent of propeller damage and ranked the degree of damage. Characterization of scars in seagrass communities have identified the type of activity which may have generated the scar feature. Management criteria was also developed based upon scar location, activity that generated the scar and degree of damage.
24321455|The study of the vascular flora of Jonathan Dickinson State Park during the period of 1975 to the present has resulted in a list of 899 taxa (including 173 exotics and 38 endemics) in 149 families. The species richness is largely due to the wide variety of the park's plant communities (15) and the diversity associated with the overlap of temperate and subtropical species' ranges. The plant communities are discussed and mapped, and a list of species is given.
24320229|Red maples presently dominate the swamp forest at Sawgrass Lake Park. Vegatational sampling showed, however, that the maple stand is aging as young maples are underrepresented. Underrepresentation is caused by high mortality of maple seedlings and young trees. One likely reason maples die prematurely is because they require moderately strong sunlight not available under the mature maple canopy. Evidence suggests that in recent years waters also have either been too high or too low in the swamp to permit seedling survival. Mesic hardwoods might be capable of replacing maples, but presently mesic species are not well represented in the swamp. Future use of the area for flood detention is likely to make the establishment and survival of mesic hardwoods even more difficult. Recommendations are made for improving conditions for hardwood survival in the existing maple swamp.
24320113|The estuary is about 35 by 30 miles at the extremes with more than 200 miles of shoreline and comparatively little contamination. Vegetation includes salt marsh, mangrove and other peninsular Florida Gulf Coast communities which are highly productive. Of 246 fish species, 18 produce a harvest with a dockside value ofca. $3,000,000. Dredging and development have had an adverse effect on more than 11,000 acres near Port Charlotte, Punta Gorda, Cape Coral and Fort Myers. An additional 25,300 acres are closed to shellfishing because of pollution. Further manmade changes threaten the value of the estuary as a fishing ground and hatchery for commercially valuable marine fishes.
24319618|Scale structure is characterized by means of the Scanning Electron Microscope. Characters, including circuli, dentition on the crests of the circuli, the cteni and the subjacent anterior areas of the scale plate are described and their potential usefulness in taxonomy indicated. The range of diversity of the lateral line scales has been emphasized separately.
24320328|Grain size analyses have been made for 34 samples of the upper 5 cm of sediment cores from seagrass beds. Sieves were used for gravel and sand; the SEDIGRAPH was used for silt and clay. Thalassia (13 samples), Halodule (3), Syringodium (3) and bare sand areas (15) within seagrass beds were sampled in the summers of 1979 and 1980. Generally, these sediments are sands, with small admixtures of gravel, silt and clay. The average particle size is about 0.25 mm with grain size modes at 0.3 and 0.1 mm. These sediments are poorly sorted (large standard deviation), positively skewed (excess fine particles) and are leptokurtic (excessive peakedness). Sand content is greater than 90% by weight, and is mostly quartz. Gravel consists of carbonate shells and shell fragments. Mineralogy of the silt fraction is not known, and the clay is judged to be mostly kaolinite from crystal shapes seen in transmission electron microscopy. Comparison of sediment from different species of seagrasses to bare sand areas reveals little difference in terms of grain size characteristics. There are no data available to document seasonal differences. There is a significantly higher content of silt (X = 1.33%) in Thalassia sediments than in nearby sandy areas (X = 1.01%). Comparison of silt grain size data (62.5 to 3.9 m) shows that the most abundant particle sizes present in Thalassia sediment are between 15-30 m. Particle size distribution of silt in nearby sandy areas shows less concentration in this range. Preliminary results from late summer sediment trap measurements give a particle flux of 10-20 g m-2 day-1 during ordinary weather, which doubled during passage of storm DENNIS. It is not known how much of this flux has come from local resuspension of sediment particles.
24320994|Aqueous extracts of roots, stems and leaves of cattail, Typha domingensis, inhibited germination of lettuce seeds and caused inversion of some of the seedlings. The part of the plant found to be most phytotoxic in all the bioassays conducted in this study was the root, followed by the stem and the leaves. This correlated with the organic carbon (Corg) content of the three fractions. Previous studies of cattail extracts by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry had revealed the presence of 2-chlorophenol and salicylaldehyde (among other components). Bioassays using these two chemicals produced the same type of inhibition observed for the extracts. The relative concentrations of both components in the cattail extracts were determined using gas chromatography (external standard method) and were found to be in the order of milligrams per kilogram of fresh material. The chemicals were most concentrated in the root fraction, the concentration decreased in the stem and only small amounts of 2-chlorophenol were detected in the leaves. We believe that release of these and other phytotoxins enables cattails to hinder development of other species and plays a role in their aggressive colonization of water bodies.
24321030|The effect of concentration and decomposition time on the phytotoxic properties of aqueous extracts of a cattail species was examined. Cattail tissues contained water-soluble materials that were toxic to germination and growth of lettuce and cattail seeds. A strong correlation was found between extract concentration and toxicity. At very low concentrations, cattail aqueous extracts stimulated germination and root elongation, but, as the concentration increased, the phytotoxic effects became apparent. The phytotoxic effects observed included germination inhibition, inversion of the seedlings, and inhibition of growth. The extracts became generally more toxic after a week of decomposition at 23C. Longer decomposition time, however, made the extracts less active. Addition of increasing amounts of activated charcoal removed the phytotoxic properties; there was a direct correlation between the amount of adsorbent used (01.5g) and the decrease in phytotoxicity under the conditions of the bioassay.
24320500|Fine-grained, organic-rich sediments are adversely impacting portions of the coastal zone in Florida. One extreme example is found in Manatee Pocket, on the southeastern coast of Florida, where sediments with >4% organic carbon have an average thickness of about 1 m and a total volume of 340,000 m3. These deposits formed as soil and organic matter were carried into Manatee Pocket and trapped during the past 100 years of regional development. Vertical profiles for Cd, Cu, Hg, Pb, and Zn show that contamination, at 5-10 times above natural levels, is restricted to the top 15-30% of the organic-rich layers of sediment. Thus, despite a long history of sedimentation problems, incoming sediments have been burdened with contaminants only since the 1950s.
24321392|The purpose of this study was to investigate the lipid and fatty acid compositions of six species of freshwater flowering plants, Ceratophyllum demersum (coontail), Vallisneria neotropicalis (eelgrass), Myriophyllum spicatum (milfoil), Hydrilla verticillata, Pistia stratiotes (water lettuce), and Eichhornia crassipes (water hyacinth) from Kings Bay, Crystal River, Florida and three seagrasses, Halodule wrightii (shoal grass), Syringodium filiforme (manatee grass), and Thalassia testudinum (turtle grass) from Sunset Beach and/or Howard Park in Tarpon Springs, Florida. All plants analyzed contained less than 1% lipid (wet weight) and greater than 75% moisture. Freshwater plants were mainly composed of monoacylglycerols, phosphatidylserine and/or phosphatidylethanolamine. These were the major lipid classes for the seagrasses along with phosphatidylcholine. The main fatty acids in all plants analyzed included 16:0, 18:2, and 18:3 with lesser amounts of 16:1 and 18:1. This study demonstrated that the lipid and fatty acid distributions for seagrasses and freshwater plants collected in local Florida waters are similar to those found in other parts of the world.
24321675|Studies on the impact of hurricanes on the eastern oyster Crassostrea virginica have focused on individual oysters lost from beds due to dislodgement or burial. Here, we provide pre- and post-hurricane information on three other attributes associated with intertidal oyster reefs: (1) shape of reefs as measured in vertical profile, (2) prevalence and intensity of Perkinsus marinus (Dermo), and (3) mean shell height in Mosquito Lagoon, along the east coast of Florida. Research in Mosquito Lagoon has documented significant alterations to vertical reef profiles associated with wakes from recreational boating, specifically creation of dead margins (piles of loose shell) on the forereefs along boating channels. Our interest was to determine if multiple storms in 2004 (Hurricanes Charley, Frances and Jeanne) could move significant numbers of live oysters and disarticulated shells to create/remove dead margins. No dead margins were created or lost by these storms. We additionally hypothesized that physical disturbances associated with boat wakes or hurricanes could disperse and damage live oysters, resulting in stresses that might increase disease loads. In reality, P. marinus prevalence or intensity was not greater on reefs with dead margins or after the hurricanes. After the hurricanes, however, mean oyster size on all reefs decreased.
24321733|Globally, marine reserves are an increasingly popular management tool for preserving marine habitats and resources. Estimates of piscivore abundance are low on the reefs of the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary. We hypothesized that the probable explanation for the absence of strong top down effects on lower trophic levels of reef fishes in the sanctuary is that coral reef structure provides an abundance of shelter for smaller organisms, which reduces the foraging efficiency of large consumers. To test this hypothesis, replicated stationary point counts and measures of reef structure were collected at two protected sites and at a fished reef. While controlling for variation in reef structure using analysis of covariance, the composition of lower trophic levels did not vary significantly among sites. In fact, we found that reef habitat complexity, and to a lesser extent reef geometry, explained most of the variation in the composition of lower trophic levels regardless of protection status. These findings indicate that the inconsistent detection of dramatic increases in reef fishes in "no-take" zones is more likely due to variation in coral reef structure rather than an absence of strong top down effects by restored densities of higher consumers.
24319738|Four species in the Thraustochytriaceae occur consistently in the guts of Lytechinus variegatus from the Tampa Bay area. Some aspects of the biology of these fungi are discussed.
24321557|We examined diets of the native Southern Toad (Anaxyrus terrestris) and the exotic Cane Toad (Rhinella marina) from an urban south-central Florida site where these species were syntopic. Both species fed opportunistically. Their diets were broad, more so in that of that of the Cane Toad, with a high degree of overlap between them (0.86). Strong dietary overlap, and absence of any significant difference between dry and wet seasons for either of the species suggested that food limitation during any part of the year would place the Southern Toad into trophic competition with the Cane Toad, a larger species and successful colonizer of urban settings in southern Florida.
24320199|Wind dispersal characteristics of Melaleuca quinquenervia seeds were explored in laboratory and field investigations. Terminal velocities of free-falling seeds (Vt) ranged 0.45-1.75 m/s, but Vt for most seeds was approximately 1.2 m/s. Few seeds with Vt < 0.9 were viable, while the fastest classes had up to 92 % germination. Seed density decreased logarithmically with distance from seed source. The distance of effective dispersal was within 15 times the height of the seed tree. Melaleuca seeds are held for years in closed capsules, but seedfall occurred in an undamaged stand throughout the 6 mo monitored. Herbicidal injections induced sudden massive seedfalls but the seed release rate remained above normal for 3 mo.
24321204|The jellyfish Stomolophus meleagris was collected both randomly and selectively in the Fort Pierce Inlet area of the Indian River Lagoon, eastern Florida on 26 and 28 March 2003. The total number of S. meleagris randomly sampled was 382 of which 16.5% carried an associated spider crab, Libinia dubia. Two S. meleagris carried two crabs each. The male/female ratio of the crab was 0.82. The mean carapace width (CW) of the males was 22.9 mm and the females 20.0 mm. The difference in size was significant between the sexes. Crabs were only found on jellyfish with a bell diameter between 80 mm and 110 mm, while the total size range of the jellyfish was 70130 mm. More than twice as many females than males were found on jellyfish with a bell diameter of 80 mm, but otherwise the sex distribution was similar regardless of the size of S. meleagris. There was no significant difference between the sexes concerning the relationship between size (CW) and live wet weight.
24321175|Non-native species may have a higher fitness in their adventive range relative to their native ranges due to release from enemy pressure. The enemy release hypothesis implies that introduced plant species should suffer lower levels of herbivory than native congeners. The goal of this study was to quantify rates of herbivory on the southern Florida invasive shrub Ardisia elliptica and its native congener A. escallonioides and evaluate how different rates of leaf area loss may affect the growth and potential reproductive output of each species. Consistent with the enemy release hypothesis. A. elliptica experienced significantly less herbivore damage than A. escallonioides. Although there was a weak and generally non-significant response to simulated herbivory, A. escallonioides was consistently more negatively impacted by leaf area loss. During this study, two folivores and one seed borer were observed feeding on A. elliptica.
24320635|Paired ovaries, collected from 51, 11/2 year-old white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in the upper Everglades system of south Florida durig 1978-80, were examined by serial histology; the sample represented 2 paired ovaries from each calendar month, except December. Breeding occurred between 21 July and 11 October (mean = 10 August); parturition occurred between 1 February and 29 April (mean = 26 February). A corpus albicans of pregnancy was identified in 52 ovaries from 38 deer. The maximum diameter of corpora albicantia of pregnancy was approximately 4 mm among females <1-month postpartum, but had regressed to <2mm by the onset of the breeding season in late July (5 months postpartum) and to <1 mm by the onset of the hunting season in mid-November (9 months postpartum). Corpora albicantia of pregnancy <1 mm diameter were inseparable from both corpora albicantia of pregnancy of the previous year and corpora lutea of estrus. Use of corpora albicantia of pregnancy to estimate productivity of white-tailed deer in subtropical Florida is restricted to a postpartum period of approximately 4 months, which (1) precludes the option for obtaining 2 years of productivity data from the paired ovaries of a given deer, and (2) limits the assessment of productivity to be derived from ovaries of hunter-collected females in autumn to those animals harvested within 4 months of parturition
24319951|A total of 105 triploid grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella) were stocked, over a 3-month period, into a 0.05-ha aerated wastewater pond. The pond was initially covered with water-fern (Azolla caroliniana), but after a rise in water temperature a dominant cover of duckweed (Lemna minor) and water-meal (Wolffia spp.) was present when grass carp were stocked. Initially 26 grass carp were added to the pond; since these fish exhibited no visible vegetation control, two subsequent stockings (49 fish and 30 fish) raised the final number of fish to 105 (2,100 fish/ha) after which a decrease in vegetation biomass was observed, however, only 65 fish (1,300 fish/ha) were found to have survived. Triploid grass carp have the capability to control floating macrophytes in wastewater ponds if sufficient fish survival can be achieved.
24320267|Twelve Gulf of Mexico Sturgeon (Acipenser oxyrhynchus desotoi) were observed from the Apalachicola River, Florida, from 1976-1981. Seven were tagged and released with 2 being recaptured by anglers. Dates and water temperature of upriver, prespawning spring migrations along with downriver, postspawning, fall migrations were obtained. One larval sturgeon was captured in the upper Apalachicola River at a temperature of 23.9C, and a flowing male was observed in the same area at a temperature of 20.6C. An important sturgeon spawning section of the river has been identified for protection. Angler snagging of sturgeon in the upper Apalachicola River was monitored during 1981, revealing an estimated 35-40 sturgeon (average weight 33-45 kg) harvested. The Gulf of Mexico Sturgeon is currently listed as a threatened species by the Florida Committee on Rare and Endangered Plants and Animals.
24319975|The U.S. Geological Survey has the principal responsibility within the Federal Government of providing the hydrologie information and understanding needed to achieve the best use and management of the Nation's water resources. The Survey is involved in studies of ground-water contamination as part of its federally funded research program, in support of the programs of other Federal agencies, and in its cooperative water-resources program with State and local agencies. Research investigations currently (1988) active in Florida include studies of ground-water contamination from agricultural practices, landfills and hazardous waste sites, wastewater disposal, and seawater intrusion. These and other research activities, and the operation of an extensive data-collection network, provide much of the scientific basis for the ground-water management programs of about 70 State, regional, and local agencies in Florida.
24321182|A white female tiger shark, Galeocerdo cuvier, was caught on September 30, 1999, by a fishing vessel operating in the northeastern Gulf of Mexico. White specimens have been reported in several other species of elasmobranchs. However, this is the first documented record of a white specimen occurring in this species.
24319757|The worldview of health and wellbeing found among the residents of San Juan Sacatepequez, Guatemala is presented. Effects of this view of health are discussed as they pertain to the population of pregnant and lactating women and their weanling offspring. Emphasis is placed on the theory of hot and cold properties found in food, emotions and activities. Other special properties that affect food and feeding are considered.
24319834|The Biscayne aquifer is the sole-source aquifer in south east Florida. Since it is unconfined and highly permeable, it is readily susceptible to contamination. Furthermore, because of its heterogeneous nature, any quantitative prediction of water supply, or of the migration and attenuation of contaminating leachates within the aquifer can be based only on detailed local studies of the type outlined. The data presented are compiled from rigorous investigations at two sites near Homestead and present new information on the Biscayne aquifer in south Dade county. These data were derived from the detailed logging of bore-hole cores, thin-section analyses, laboratory permeability tests and field-pumping tests.
24320623|A comparison of the abundance and spatial pattern of stony corals (Milleporina and Scleractinia) and octocorals (Alcyonaria) on nearshore hard-bottom communities of the Florida Keys is presented. Two methods were used to survey coral populations on nearshore, low-relief hard-bottom communities and patch reefs: (1) species presence-absence inventories and (2) belt quadrat surveys of colony density, colony size, and cover. Sites characterized by high sedimentation and low current velocity (< 1 m/s) consisted of sparse aggregations of Siderastrea radians, Pterogorgia anceps, and Briareum asbestinum. Hard-bottom communities characterized by higher current velocity (> 1 m/s) and lower sediment accumulation were more speciose and exhibited higher coral cover. Stony corals exhibited clumped distributions on nearshore sites, while octocorals were uniformly to randomly distributed in belt quadrats. Temperature fluctuations and sediment transport are inferred to be the most important factors in controlling coral distribution on nearshore communities. Life histories of stony corals on nearshore communities are characterized by small colony size, brooding of larvae, and high recruitment rates. No significant negative associations among coral species were observed, suggesting that competition for substratum availability does not significantly influence observed distribution patterns. Vectorial (physical-chemical) and reproductive factors were inferred to exert the most influence on observed coral abundance patterns at spatial scales investigated.
24320130|Meristic and calorific relationships were determined for aquatic animals from southern Florida. The relationships derived included wet mass to length (52 species, 2 families), dry mass to length (17 species), dry mass to wet mass (17 species), and calorific value (44 taxa). The analyses we present are the first available for most of the species. Such relationships can be used in estimating standing stock and energy flow in aquatic systems.
24319776|An archaeological investigation was conducted on the proposed site of the Fletcher Avenue park for 8 wk during the summer of 1978. Site boundaries were located during the early stages of park planning so that adverse impact from park development could be minimized. Data-recovery was designed to produce cultural-historical information about the park's sites for use in on-site public displays. At the same time, problem-oriented excavations will contribute to an understanding of regional cultural processes in prehistory. Recommendations to park developers include site preservation techniques whose long-term effectiveness can be measured in the future. Scientific site preservation, coupled with public interpretation of the park's cultural resources all contribute to an overall program of management of cultural resources at the Fletcher Avenue park.
24312036|The pelagic capture and subsequent behavior of two young individuals of the rough triggerfish (Canthidermis maculatus) from the Caribbean Sea is described and discussed.
24319658|The movement of main channel Mississippi River species on an adjoining floodplain was associated with flooding. Of 62 species collected, 24 were characteristic of the main channel and 15 occurred equally in both floodplain or main channel habitats. The presence of juveniles and/or spawning adults indicate that backwaters serve as important nursery areas for riverine fishes.
24320214|The bay scallop (Argopecten irradians) showed a strong escape response when placed in contact with the asteroid Luidia clathrata. This response is characterized by rapid movements of the valves resulting in immediate displacement of the asteroid and subsequent relocation of the bivalve. The scallop demonstrated only minimal levels of response when placed in contact with the asteroid Echinaster sp. Whole animal homogenates of the 2 asteroid species injected into the mantle cavity of A. irradians resulted in similar patterns of response. The intensity of the escape response elicited by A. irradians may be related to the different feeding modes of these 2 asteroid species. Luidia clathrata feeds primarily on macrofauna (e.g., bivalves, ophiuroids, and polychaetes), while Echinaster sp feeds primarily on detritus and encrusting organisms.
24321579|Estimating Florida apple snail (Pomacea paludosa Say) abundance in wetlands is difficult due to the complex structure of the habitat. We have used throw traps for sampling snails, but significant limitations to this approach prompted investigation of alternative methods. Here, we deployed funnel traps in a mark-recapture study to estimate apple snail density in three habitat types. We compare and contrast the data quality and logistics associated with this approach to those associated with throw traps. We captured and marked 1,420 snails in our sampling grids. Density estimates based on the grid area ranged from 0.13  0.43 snails | m2. These 'nave' density estimates were 1930% higher than those adjusted to account for snails moving in and out of the grid. Capture probabilities (p) varied between sampling grids, and we illustrate why it can be misleading to compare counts of animals without adjusting for p. The funnel trap approach proved especially advantageous over throw traps in densely vegetated habitats. However, no clear advantage exists in areas with relatively sparse vegetation. Although both approaches have their limitations, which we discuss in detail, the mark-recapture approach using funnel traps accommodates a wider range of habitat types.
24319878|Four species of bats have been recorded in Florida's Lower Keys. The record of a Myotis austroriparius may be spurious. Pipistrellus subflavus and Tadarida brasiliensis are known from single individuals thought to have been waifs or dispersers outside their normal range. Only the Antillean fruit bat, Artibeus jamaicensis, seems to have a resident population. The zoogeographic significance of colonization of these continental islands from oceanic islands is discussed.
24319634|Spawning of Notropis petersoni in the upper Hillsborough River drainage, Florida, occurred MarchSeptember in water 19 to 27C. Fecundity ranged from 110694 mature ova (< 0.8 mm) per female and correlated with total length. Young-of-the-year from early spring spawning in 1972 (March or April) averaged 33.8 mm long by late June and reached adult size (60 mm) by October. Later spawned young-of-the-year grew similarly and by late December mean size of all young-of-the-year reached 59.0 mm; all were sexually mature at age 1; and post-spawning mortality occurred throughout the summer. Southern (Florida) and northernmost (North Carolina) populations of N. petersoni differ in growth rates, age structure, and life cycles.
24320714|Southwest Florida, like many parts of Florida, has been a retirement haven for the past several decades. However, other age trends are also occurring, especially in the more urban communities. The age structure of individual communities can be examined using graphic techniques based on easily-obtainable data from the U.S. Census, and can be compared to state-wide and national trends over the same period. The same techniques can also be used to examine particular segments of the population such as racial groups. Planners and policy makers need to understand local demographic structure and change, and can use or modify the techniques suggested by the author for their own planning purposes.
24319783|The identification of human skeletal remains by physical anthropologists has changed during the last decade. New techniques have been introduced and more physical anthropologists are active. The need for proper training, continuing education, and facilities is discussed and the procedures used in a typical analysis of unidentified human remains are described.
24319436|The CNDO method has been applied to a variety of AB2-type molecules in order to test the reliability of the method at geometries removed from equilibrium. In particular, the method was found to predict double minima in the bending potential of such molecules in a qualitatively correct manner. Some features of such CNDO determined potential curves are discussed.
24320783|Salmonella hartford was isolated from the lung and liver of a Florida black bear (Ursus americanus floridanus) found dead on November 14, 1993, in northern Florida. This is the first known report of the isolation of Salmonella sp. in a wild black bear from organs other than intestines. Abnormal lung and liver tissue with lesions resembling those found in other species with salmonellosis and the isolation of Salmonella hartford from these tissues support a presumptive diagnosis of salmonellosis. Salmonellosis is a potential zoonotic disease, and care should be taken when handling black bears.
24319455|Approximately 130 ca. 2 mm white eggs were encased in glair which cleared within 24 hr revealing egg attachment to the pleopods. Egg-hearing cave-dwelling crayfish have not been previously observed in Florida.
24319969|The density of Aeromonas hydrophila L. in the St. Johns river at Lake Harney was examined within the environment (water and sediment) and on striped mullet (skin and stomach) between February and August, 1982. High densities of this pathogenic bacteria occurred within the environment during midsummer when sedimentary chlorophylla and water temperature were highest. Diseased striped mullet (fish with skin lesions), containing high densities of the bacteria within their stomachs and on their skin, were more abundant during summer. This suggests that mullet, browsing on bacteria-laden sediment for algae, accumulate bacteria within their gut and on their skin which, in turn, enhances infections of red sore disease. Significant correlation coefficients were not found between Aeromonas hydrophila L. abundance (water and sediment) and dissolved oxygen, pH, total alkalinity, specific conductivity, and planktonic chlorophylla.
24321422|The fish assemblages of the Lower St. Marys River Basin (LSMR) were studied from May 2001 through April 2002 using data gathered from monthly stratified-random sampling (SRS) during the first year of a long-term fisheries-independent monitoring program in northeast Florida. Three different types of sampling gear (21.3-m seine, 6.1-m otter trawl, and 183-m seine) were used to sample the fish assemblages within different areas and habitats associated with the LSMR. A total of 37,922 animals, representing 108 taxa, were collected in 240 samples taken throughout the entire basin. Collections for all habitats were numerically dominated by a few species. Monthly species richness throughout the basin was directly correlated with water temperature for both the 21.3-m seine and 6.1-m otter trawl catches. The abundant species in the LSMR were similar to other estuaries in the region. No difference was found in the species diversity throughout the LSMR. This study provides data regarding the distribution and abundance of fish assemblages from the LSMR that will be used in the creation of future baseline community-structure models.
24319410|285 adult male and 298 adult female Red-winged Blackbirds, Agelaius phoeniceus, from localities throughout Florida were collected during the breeding season. Specimens were prepared and examined to determine the nature and extent of geographic variation in morphological characters. Mean wing length, tail length and weight decrease clinally from northwest to southeast, except that birds from the Keys are larger than birds from the Everglades. Other morphological characters vary similarly but to a lesser degree. Color of streaking in females in darkest in the northwest and lightest in the southeast. With the possible exception of the Everglades population, recognition of more than one subspecies of the Red-winged Blackbird in Florida is not warranted.
24321121|Pelvic vestiges of 129 Florida manatees (Trichechus manatus latirostris) were examined to determine if size and gender could be determined from isolated bones. The distinctions are not apparent in smaller specimens but become more obvious with increases in total body length (TBL). Animals equal to or less than 150 cm have rudimentary pelvics that are composed of cartilage. At approximately 160 cm TBL, an ossification center develops within this cartilage. At approximately 200 cm TBL, the pelvics continue to form in bone but lack sexually dimorphic features. In animals larger than 225 cm TBL, the pelvic bones gradually develop dimorphic features. There is obvious sexual dimorphism among larger individuals, with male pelvic bones being more robust than female pelvic bones.
24321862|The macroinvertebrate communities of four tidal creeks along the eastern shore of Charlotte Harbor were sampled bimonthly from May 2008 to June 2010. The objective of the sampling effort was to survey the benthic macroinvertebrate taxa and assess water quality characteristics and habitat conditions which may influence macroinvertebrate community structure. A total of 156 different taxa were found in these creeks, several of which were very common throughout the study area. Macroinvertebrate communities differed among tidal creeks and corresponded, in part, to benthic habitat type and diversity and to a lesser extent average salinity and other environmental conditions. These results emphasize the importance of both physical habitat and variability in environmental conditions such as long term salinity regimes and occurrences of large inflow events in supporting a diverse macroinvertebrate community.
24320059|The effects of dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) on regional blood flow were determined in rats using Sapirstein's method for the fractional distribution of 86Rb. In the control, 60 white rats were anesthetized with sodium pentobarbital and then given approximately 4.5 million dpm of 86Rb by the femoral vein. The experimental group was given 0.5 gskg of pure DMSO via the contralateral vein 5 min prior to 86Rb injection. Animals in both groups sacrificed at 2, 5, 10, 30, 60, and 300 sec showed no significant changes in the blood flow to the heart, lungs, kidneys, thyroids, brain or skin; however, changes were observed in the livers, stomachs, spleens, guts, and carcasses of the experimental group.
24321001|The wildlife function and value of a wetland is typically assessed by comparison with an idealized or actual standard. Described here is an alternative approach that uses Virtual Reference Wetlands (VRWs) as the standard for comparison. VRWs are established by compiling a list of all wildlife species occurring in regional wetlands from available literature. VRWs are applicable to a variety of assessment situations. The VRW approach was applied to wildlife use of a created wetland to illustrate the utility of VRWs. The created wetland wildlife community was found to be relatively rich, due in part to the occurrence of upland birds. Consistent with its physical characteristics, the wildlife community more closely resembled that of freshwater marshes of the region. Habitat specialists were just as likely to occur in the created wetland as were habitat generalists. VRWs would likely be of comparable value in other assessment situations.
24319657|Field and herbarium studies confirm 5 native, naturalized or adventive Merremia in Florida. Two of the species have not been recorded previously. Keys and illustrations are given with other data.
24319444|Excavation of 40 tunnel systems of Geomys pinetis revealed a high percentage contained a sharply pitched, tightly spiraled, "staircase" tunnel connecting shallow and deep burrow passages. In addition to the previously unknown spiral tunnels, specialized nest and food cache chambers were discovered in the bi-level tunnel system.
24320134|Recently developed scenarios of nuclear winter effects originating from a nuclear exchange in the north temperate zone point to localized periodic freezes reaching as far south as the Tropic of Capricorn. The effects of freezes on Florida's agriculture and natural ecosystems are assessed as analogs of what might occur at lower latitudes should freezing temperatures from a nuclear winter reach into the tropics. Vegetation damage, population fluctuations, restricted distributions, fish kills, and crop losses are recurrent features associated with freezes in Florida. However, Florida's freezes can only serve as a partial analog because of bioclimatic dissimilarities between tropical regions and the Florida peninsula. Florida, itself, would suffer severe environmental consequences during a nuclear winter, yet certain features of its environment may permit a relatively rapid recovery.
24319692|The passage of Hurricane David had dramatic effects on the surface to bottom salinity gradient recorded in the Ft. Pierce Inlet. The Inlet is located in the Indian River on Florida's Atlantic coast. Salinities measured at meter intervals from surface to bottom, 12 da before the passage of the Hurricane, showed the water column to be vertically homogeneous. Eight da after the Hurricane, the water column was highly stratified during the ebb tide with a maximum surface to bottom salinity difference of 11.9 ppt. The flood tide was homogeneous after about 2 hr. Thus, the extensive rainfall during Hurricane David changed what was a wellmixed inlet into a highly stratified one during the ebb tide.
24321386|As in Kentucky and North Carolina, Rafinesque's big-eared bat, Corynorhinus rafinesquii, at the southernmost known colony which is in Osceola County in central Florida fed primarily on moths throughout much of the year, although they ate a few other insects, mainly flies and beetles. Nearly all of the moths were noctuids. Several calliphorids were eaten, and it is possible that the bats caught them in the roost.
24319924|Analysis of the relationship between total energy consumption and Gross State Product and total income for the Florida economy were undertaken for the years 1960-78. Extremely robust relationships were found and the energy disruptions and price increases associated with the period 1973-74 seemed to have resulted in only a temporary decoupling between energy and economic activity. Relationships for 1977 and 1978 returned to pre-1973 levels.
24320255|The responses to low-frequency, irregularly-pulsed sounds of juvenile lemon sharks (Negaprion brevirostris) that were born in captivity and deprived of normal experience were measured. These sounds were produced by a mechanical device oscillating a transparent plastic flipper at a frequency of 12.5 Hz. The sounds were known to attract juvenile sharks that were captured in the field but experientially-deprived sharks were not attracted to these sounds in initial tests. The sharks were then provided with opportunities to capture living prey and to experience auditory stimulation associated with wounded, struggling fish. These experiences were not sufficient to overcome the possible inhibitory effect on responsiveness of social isolation during testing. To verify the existence of a social factor the sharks were then tested in groups of three. Their approach-response level indicated attraction and compared favorably with juvenile sharks that had species-typical feeding and rearing experiences. Due to the confounding of social conditions during testing with experience in the present work it is not possible to isolate the roles of experiential and social factors in responsiveness to sounds. Suggestions for further research are made to resolve these issues.
24321040|Studies were conducted to investigate the palatability of 7-spot ladybird beetles (Coccinella septapunctata) to adult males of the golden mouse, Ochrotomys nuttali, as well as to determine what cues were used by these mice to avoid contact with these beetles. Ladybird beetles were presented to captive mice either intact (unbled) or after being bled to remove the reflex hemolymph discharged after being bitten (reflex bleeding), and in various treatment groups in which the beetle's color pattern, taste, or odor were added to a palatable control bark beetle, either alone or in various combinations. Unbled 7-spot ladybird beetles were unpalatable to O. nuttalli, and were rejected by a majority of these mice even after reflex-bleeding. Twenty-eight and 40.7% of the unbled and reflex-bled beetles were rejected based on visual cues (color pattern of the elytra) alone. The overall survivorship of 7-spot beetles after an encounter with a mouse was high for both bled (82.7%) and unbled (79.3%) insects. Only 15.7% of the unbled beetles were eaten following an attack as compared to 5.6% of the reflex-bled beetles. Seventy-five and 84.6% of the bled and unbled beetles, respectively, survived an attack (chewing) indicating that these insects can survive even after some degree of mandibulation by these mice. Although golden mice responded to visual, olfactory, and gustatory cues, either singly or in combination with one another, odor alone resulted in a lower level of rejection. When presented with the color pattern of the beetle alone, there was an initial high rate of rejection by these mice which then decreased significantly after three trials.
24320663|A study was conducted (March 1988 to December 1993) to determine status of selected physico-chemical parameters of water and sediments in Lake Jessup, central Florida, and to elucidate the relationships between chemistry of the sediments and that of the overlying water. Quantitative samples of the lake water and sediments were collected from 1230 stations and analyzed. With the increase in turbidity due to wind actions or other factors, soluble reactive P (SRP) concentrations in water at the sediment-water interface and subsequently the concentrations of chlorophyll a in the lake increased. Turbidity and elevated dissolved solids in the water resulted in an increase in electrical conductivity of the water. Mean concentrations of Kjeldahl nitrogen, extractable SRP, and total organic carbon in sediments were 10.91, 0.0188, and 65.5 mg/g, respectively. Such high concentrations of these nutrients in sediments probably interact and affect the overlying water. Sediments in Lake Jessup showed a high degree of spatial variability with respect to chemical characteristics. Some areas of the lake bottom supported high levels of organic carbon. The results reported here present an initial database on nutrient status (water and sediments) of Lake Jessup.
24319427|Adult pinfish, Lagodon rhomboides, were collected during September and October, 1974 and 1975. Following a minimum of one wk holding period, females were initially injected with 200 IU human chorionic gonadotropin and injected with 400 IU every second day thereafter until mature ova (0.90-0.93 mm diam.) were produced. Ova were artificially fertilized and the embryonic period (sensu Balon, 1975) described and illustrated. Emergence occurred 48 hr after fertilization at 18C and eye pigmentation appeared 144 hr after fertilization. Larval total length at emergence was 2.3 mm; at 96 hr post-emergence, 2.7 mm; and at 120 hr post-emergence, 2.5 mm. Decrease in length and death of larvae after 96 hr post-emergence was probably due to malnutrition and subsequent infection.
24321784|The invasive Burmese python has been firmly established in southern Florida for several years, has undergone a population explosion, and is spreading northward. Unanswered questions include the python's effect on native biota, and what future effect can be expected in areas annexed into the python's range. To address these questions, mammal counts were conducted inside and outside of the python's southern Florida range, in similar habitats, to determine their effect on mammal species. Samples revealed far fewer mammals within Everglades National Park, especially small mammals which are a suitable size for consumption for most of a python's life.
24319396|Co-occurrence of turtle and alligator eggs in the same nest suggests a possible symbiotic relationship.
24321562|The biological integrity of contaminated sediments in Watson Bayou was evaluated. Results demonstrated the applicability of the biological integrity standard for estuarine systems in the State of Florida and the value of sediment quality guidelines in the development of sediment standards. Regardless of how the biological integrity data were examined, the results consistently showed that the sediments from Watson Bayou failed to meet the standard. A significant negative association between biological metrics and sediment contamination was also found. However, this comparison was performed between the highly contaminated sediments of Watson Bayou and the relatively pristine sediments found in bayous associated with North Bay.
24320259|Two thousand one hundred forty-three sharks, representing 6 families and 29 species, were examined from shark tournaments, taxidermy firms, fishing docks and longline vessels, from 28 February 1979 through 1 November 1980. Preliminary data on the recreational fisheries for sharks in the southeast United States, on the shark "by-catch" of the Japanese longline fishery for bluefin tuna, and on the biology of species found off southeast Florida are presented.
24320077|A new subspecies of Anolis baleatus, one of the three species of Hispaniolan giant anoles, is described from a single specimen taken on Isla Saona off the extreme southeastern end of Hispaniola; comparisons of the new taxon are made with the two adjacent mainland subspecies. A brief discussion of the Saonan herpetofauna reveals high incidence of subspecific endemism.
24320720|There is evidence of a changing macroalgae population in Hillsborough Bay, the northeastern section of Tampa Bay. Since 1986 there has been a steady decline in the abundance of macroalgae, with biomass falling from a peak of 86.81 grams dry weight/square meter (gdw/m2) in 1987, to 66.32 gdw/m2 in 1992. In addition to biomass reductions, there also appears to be changes occurring in species composition. Gracilaria was the dominant alga throughout the 1980s, but this species has been declining in abundance and at present Spyridia and Agardhiella are found in similar quantities as Gracilaria. Ulva and Chaetomorpha occasionally occur in large quantities as well, but there is not a clear trend found with these species.
24321734|This research examines trends in species richness and abundance of coral reef fishes from seven coral reef sites in the Florida Keys that have experienced a significant decline in coral cover between 1996 and 2000. Reef Environment Education Foundation (REEF) surveys (n = 470) collected by experts between 1994 and 2001 were used to compare the species richness and abundance of coral reef fishes. A total of 96 fish species were identified as using coral reef as their primary habitat. There were no significant declines in species richness of coral reef fishes at any of the study sites between 1994 and 2001. A comparison of coral reef fish abundance based on proportion presence combined from all seven sites resulted in a significant decline in abundance for 19 species (20%). Ten of the coral reef fishes that declined from the seven reef sites also appear to be declining region wide in the Florida Keys. REEF provides near real-time data for the Florida Keys, but long-term coral and fish surveys using other methods are still needed to identify decadal patterns in species richness and abundance in the Florida Keys.
24319981|Reproductive activity in common snook (Centropomus undecimalis) was investigated by examining 57 male and 83 female specimens collected near Fort Pierce, Florida during 1984-85. From late April to early October, yolked eggs were present and spawning could have occurred. From mid-April to mid-September, mean oocyte diameter was in the range 313-419 m, mean female gonadosomatic index was 2.0-5.0 %, and male GSI was 0.8-2.0 %.
24319779|I present some of the findings of a needs assessment survey among migrant/farm-workers in rural southern Hillsborough County. The study concentrates on educational levels, family size and income levels of the predominantly Hispanic target population. Some attitudinal data are presented.
24322342|Approximately 423 cubic meters of living oysters were relocated from Phillippi Creek in order to create artificial oyster reefs along the Intracoastal Waterway (ICWW) in Sarasota, Florida. Phillippi Creek was about to be maintenance dredged to allow the passage of small boats and, as a mitigation response, the West Coast Inland Navigation District, which was responsible for the maintenance dredging, suggested that living oysters be relocated from the creek to new locations nearby on the ICWW. This effort was closely coordinated with the Florida Department of Environmental Protection's Habitat Restoration Group (Tampa Office). Over a three year monitoring period, some of the relocation sites proved to be more conducive to growth and development of oysters than others. However, even with naturally occurring perturbations in the environment, the relocation of living oysters plus shell material from Phillippi Creek to various locations along the nearby ICWW has provided stability to shorelines as well as habitat for fish, invertebrates and birds and other wildlife. In addition, most of the sites continue to provide viable areas for settlement of spat and growth of new oysters. Overall, this effort is viewed as a successful attempt to establish viable oyster communities where none existed previously.
24320411|A study was conducted for one year before and for one year after construction of rotary ditches in breached impoundments to document water quality changes in high marsh pothole habitats. Some of the weekly collected data included salinity, dissolved oxygen, nitrogen, phosphate and turbidity. Changes in the control vs. treatment means after construction were generally not significant while some extremes were reduced, which may indicate a more stable environment. This stabilization should support a larger population and diversity offish contributing to better control in these mosquito production habitats. This study is a preliminary step to demonstrating the ability of Open Marsh Water Management by rotary ditching to enhance the high-marsh habitat.
24320381|Generally, ground water contamination is a reality associated with landfills constructed prior to about 1980-1984. In some cases this contamination has reached public and private drinking water supplies. State laws adopted in the mid-1980s requiring ground water monitoring at all landfills have accelerated discovery of ground water contamination problems associated with landfills. In addition, federal investigations under Superfund have identified sources of contamination and in some cases provided funds for remedial action at these sites. Remedial action is also being conducted by the state of Florida, municipalities and the private sector. For the past 4-5 years, landfills have been constructed in a manner that greatly reduces the potential for ground water contamination through the use of liner systems, slurry walls, leachate collection and detection systems, and mandatory ground water monitoring. However, there is a trend in Florida to reduce our reliance on the use of landfills by increasing our use of recycling and energy recovery systems.
24321395|The Atlantic cutlassfish, Trichiurus lepturus, occurs in tropical and temperate waters including United States coastal waters. Although T. lepturus is an important commercial species, and its biology and ecology have been studied in various oceans, little research has been conducted in the western Atlantic. In the winter of 2005, T. lepturus were abundant in Port Everglades, Florida. Thirty-four of thirty-six fish, collected by hook and line were females and a gonosomatic index indicated a spawning interval during the months of January and February. However, during the same months in 2006 T. lepturus were absent or of low abundance.
24320502|We observed ten amphibian and reptile species between January 1990 and April 1991 on Egmont Key, Hillsborough County, Florida. Four additional species (Anolis carolinensis, Cnemidophorus sexlineatus, Sceloporus undulatus, Scincella lateralis) are known only from museum specimens collected in 1869-1870 and 1904 and are thought to be extirpated, possibly as a result of predation by feral cats. The possible origins of the island's herpetofauna are discussed.
24321998|Differences in the volatilization temperatures and sources of inputs of nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) suggest that fire will decrease N relative to P over the short term and that N will increase relative to P over the long term after fire. In Florida scrubby flatwoodsa pyrogenic ecosystem that occurs on sandy nutrient-poor soilswe tested the hypotheses that N availability increases with time-since-fire, that P availability decreases with time-since-fire, and that the ratio of available N to P increases with time-since-fire. We measured nutrient availability and soil characteristics in scrubby flatwoods sites along a time-since-fire chronosequence (1, 4, 6, 8, and 10 yr since fire). Resin-exchangeable and K2SO4-extractable N, soil N and C pools, potential net N mineralization, chloroform-labile microbial N, resin-exchangeable PO43-, and resin-exchangeable N:P ratios did not differ significantly with time-since-fire. Turnover of organic matter likely controls nutrient availability in scrubby flatwoods; and low organic matter in sandy scrubby flatwoods soils, coupled with sequestration of nutrients in plant biomass, appears to limit accumulation of soil N with time-since-fire. In contrast to many other fire-influenced ecosystems, we did not detect a long-term effect of fire on nutrient availability in scrubby flatwoods.
24319919|Large quantities of inexpensive, sterile seawater are needed for a variety of scientific applications. A dozen organic compounds have been identified that possess the necessary properties (nontoxicity, persistence in seawater, high extinction coefficients, appropriate spectra) to exploit photodynamic action and destroy toxigenic bacteria and viruses found in seawater. These compounds were evaluated to determine their absorption by a clam (Mercenaria mercenaria) and their effectiveness toward Escherichia coli through photodynamic action. As a result of preliminary evaluation, 5 compounds expressed suitable characteristics warranting further study. These compounds killed E. coli, but did not appear to injure M. mercenaria nor were they absorbed intact by the clams. Further testing is required to establish the limits of effectiveness in sterilizing seawater through photodynamic action.
24319432|Temperature, time and cooling regimes were established for transformation of soft hematite and iron glance into maghemite in an oxidizing atmosphere; hematite structure seems to aid in retaining magnetic properties in an oxidizing atmosphere.
24319518|Acetabularia calyculus is reported from lagoons on the Florida East Coast.
24320676|Three different types of small mammal traps used for a total of 5,940 trapnights each were compared by chi-square analysis for overall sampling effectiveness and for species-related differences in captures. Two types of snap traps (museum special and Victor mouse) and Sherman live traps were tested. Results indicated differences in trapping success for various species among the 3 types, and Victor mouse traps were less effective at sampling the small mammal community as a whole.
24321032|The academic genealogical trees of over 20 members of the Department of Chemistry at the University of South Florida were assembled. This is a listing of the faculty members, their doctoral institution and the year of the degree, followed by the same information for the person who directed their doctoral dissertations (and their degree institutions and date of degree), and so on back to (typically) one of three persons about 200 years ago: Jns Jacob Berzelius, A. F. de Fourcroy, or C. L. Berthollet. Fewer than 1012 generations separate most chemists from these three chemists. Methods and sources of information used in obtaining the information are given. The advantages are the assistance to a study of the history of chemistry, and a better appreciation of the past. The disadvantages are the challenges in determining the major advisor of a given individual, and problems obtaining information for persons in interdisciplinary areas, e.g., some biochemists, and some physical chemists, whose training was in physics. The value of this analysis is self-evident.
24321225|Population dynamics and home range in populations of the Key Largo woodrat (Neotoma floridana smalli), Key Largo cotton mouse (Peromyscus gossypinus allapaticola) and the introduced black rat (Rattus rattus) were investigated in four tropical hardwood hammocks on Key Largo, Florida. The hammocks represented three different age classes: medium (disturbed between 1940 and 1959), medium-old (disturbed between 1926 and 1940), and old (disturbed before 1926). N. floridana in medium-old hammock had the highest population size and high female reproduction, where R. rattus was absent. N. floridana, in old-aged hammock, had low recruitment, low female reproduction, seasonal male reproduction, and a larger home range compared to other sites. In the presence of R. rattus, N. floridana had low population size, reduced survivorship, and a male biased population. Medium-aged hammocks had the highest abundance of P. gossypinus. However, the presence of R. rattus caused P. gossypinus to reduce their home range size in those hammocks. R. rattus was only present in a mediumaged grid, where it had high population size and recruitment.
24321388|Certain species of algae inhabit the transitional boundary between terrestrial and aquatic zones, typically found in wetlands. These species develop morphological features when they are slowly exposed to drying conditions. The fringe area of twenty wetlands with either decreasing or static water levels were compared to determine if these morphological features could be used as a potential indicator of hydrology in south Florida. One species, Microspora amoena, found in 83 percent of the samples, was found to undergo morphological changes that correlated to changes in wetland water levels. The filaments collected on the fringe of the wetlands that had undergone a drying period two weeks prior to collection had features that were indicative of desiccation tolerance, including thickened cell walls, augmentation of carotenoid pigments and the formation of resting cells. Filaments collected in the wetland areas that had not undergone a decrease in water levels or were fully submerged did not display these traits. These different morphologies would traditionally lead to separate species; however, this variation appears to be simply a response to environmental conditions.
24320244|Asiatic clams (Corbicula manilensis Philippi) were sampled at 12 stations along a 16 km reach of the Wekiva River, Florida at 3-mo intervals between August 1976 and June 1977. The abundance of the clams range from 4-1,210 per m2. The greatest numbers of clams were found where the bottom sediments were comprised of clean, fine sand; lowest numbers were found in silty, organic sediments near the headwaters. Seasonally, larger clams were collected in December 1976 (mean shell length = 13.7 mm), whereas small clams were most evident in March 1977 (mean shell length = 13.1 mm).
24320121|A taxonomic and biogeographic analysis was made of populations of two Cafius species from the coasts of the Caribbean, Gulf of Mexico, and Atlantic North America. Cafius bilineatus (Erichson), whose type locality is St. John's, Antigua, is a synonym of C. bistriatus (Erichson), whose type locality is Long Island, New York. Two subspecies of C. bistriatus are recognized: C. b. bistriatus [new status] from the Caribbean, Gulf of Mexico, and Atlantic North America, and C. b. fulgens Frank [new subspecies] from the coasts of the Gulf of California, Baja California, and the Salton Sea. The typical subspecies has two disjunct populations: a northern population from Virginia northwards at least to the Gulf of St. Lawrence, and a southern population in the Caribbean, the southern part of the Gulf of Mexico, and lower peninsular Florida. The principal habitat of C. bistriatus is stranded macrophytic algae. Distribution of this species appears to be determined by the distribution of such algae, for they form the basal material of the food chain in which Cafius adults and larvae exist as predators. Cafius rufifrons Bierig, whose type locality is Havana, Cuba, is restricted to part of Cuba and extreme southern Florida; adults differ in color and structure from those of C. bistriatus and are of smaller average size. Cafius rufifrons and C. bistriatus occur in the same habitats in extreme southern Florida and the reason for the very restricted distribution of C. rufifrons is not clear.
24321105|This study analyzed the effects of aging and chronic diet restriction on the concentrations of monoamine neurotransmitters (NTs) in the cerebral cortex of young (6 months) and old (30 months) males of the Florida mouse, Podomys floridanus. Control animals were fed ad libitum (AL). Aging per se had no significant effect on either the levels of dopamine (DA), norepinephrine (NE), 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT = serotonin) or some of their metabolites such as 3.4-dihydroxyphenyl-acetic acid (DOPAC), homovanilic acid (HVA) and 5-hydroxy-indoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), in the frontal cortex. Dietary restriction (DR) in old mice caused a significant increase in levels of 5-HT and the DOPAC + HVA / DA ratio. Aging and DR had no effect on NTs or their metabolites in the parietal cortex. In the occipital cortex, levels of 5-HT were significantly higher in old mice as compared to younger conspecifics; there was no difference in the levels of DA or NE. The ratio of 5-HIAA / 5-HT was significantly reduced in older animals. The results also suggest that serotonergic neurons are influenced to a greater extent by senescence than catecholaminergic neurons. DR during the aging process resulted in higher DA concentrations in the frontal cortex.
24321669|The findings of the first 24 years of an ongoing study of the species composition, population structures, and population trends of marine turtles in the central region of the Indian River Lagoon are reported. This region serves as developmental habitat for loggerheads (Caretta caretta) and green turtles (Chelonia mydas). There is significant variation in the seasonal population structure of green turtles but not that of loggerheads. There are no meaningful long-term trends in the population structure for either species. There is significant variation in the seasonal abundance of green turtles but not of loggerheads. Green turtles have shown an increase in long-term abundance which, when viewed along with green turtle nesting trends in Florida and with genetic data identifying the origin of the juveniles in the lagoon and juvenile green turtles in other foraging aggregations, suggests that the Florida green turtle population is beginning to recover. Although loggerheads have shown an increase in abundance recently, no trend is discernable.
24320993|An analysis is made of the cost of processing etchant wastes from electronic industries using a process of reduction with sugar, followed by chelation and extraction with a cloud-point technique. This less-common extraction method was previously used to extract chromium(III) ion from aqueous solution. Using a nonionic surfactant solution and 8-hydroxyquinoline (or a derivative), a chromium(III) complex and unreacted chelating agent were extracted into the micellar phase at a temperature above the cloud-point temperature within two hours. The molar ratio, pH, temperature and hydrophobicity of the chelating agent were factors determining the extraction efficiency. Extraction efficiency was improved to 99%, and chromium concentration was reduced from 55 ppm to less than 1 ppm when excess chelating agent was used at pH 5.5 at 70 C. Analysis indicates the procedure could be much cheaper than current hazardous waste disposal practices.
24319451|Seventy extractions of chlorophyll a from leaves along a vertical profile yielded the following results: 1) chlorophyll a content in g/m2 leaf surface was 0.289 (0.021 to 0.396); 2) leaves from different species did not indicate any clear differences; 3) Margalef ratios (OD430/OD665) averaged 2.04 with 4.00 observed for leaf litter; and 4) chlorophyll a content was 1.7 g/m2 ground surface. It is suggested that a uniform chlorophyll distribution in the forest permits quick responses in the photosynthetic machinery to changes in solar energy inputs, thus maintaining optimum power output of photosynthesis. Comparison of several steady-state and successional systems suggests that Margalef ratios may not be useful as indicators of succession for terrestrial ecosystems.
24320501|This paper presents a descriptive and comparative analysis of skeletal remains from the Briarwoods Site (8Pa66), Pasco County, Florida, dated circa A.D. 1000-1500. The fragmentary sample (N=87), included a minimum of 28 males and 11 females for whom sex could he determined. Where age estimation was possible, adults outnumbered juveniles 45 to 12. Stature averaged 158.2 cm (N=4 males). When several sites were compared, sex and adult:subadult ratios, and stature for all sites showed wide variation. At 17.4%, the frequency of pathological lesions or anomalies at Briarwoods was considerably higher than the other burial sites. Adult teeth were characterized by occlusal attrition to the dentin, but no caries.
24321172|The use of the Lemna minor L. species of duckweed has proven to be effective in uptake and control of nitrogen and phosphorus levels. This research examines the uptake of nitrogen and phosphorus by L. minor under controlled environmental conditions using two 1600-mL Plexiglas L. minor growth reactors in tandem that permitted known concentrations of micronutrients to be added at known rates. Nutrient concentrations were measured until a depleted concentration state was reached (in a two-week period) A modified high nitrate Hillman's medium was used, and there was a 10% surface harvest every other day after the fourteenth day. This setup mimics the effluent wastewater going from one duckweed pond to another. The harvest improved the removal of nitrogen and phosphorus since the duckweed had room to grow.
24320285|Minimum temperatures of less than 0C were recorded on 2 nights during January, 1981 in Taylor Slough within the Everglades National Park. Resulting frost severely damaged 16 plant species, did moderate damage to 12 species, and had no apparent effect on 12 species. The effect was a minor short-term impact on plant species with a more pronounced impact on live and dead biomass. Measurements pre- and post-frost indicated a significant 25 % decrease in live biomass with a corresponding 12% increase in the dead component. Seasonally occurring frosts can have a significant impact on fuels of less than 6 mm size, and may influence fire behavior.
24320014|The Florida Department of Environmental Regulation has established detailed dissolved oxygen standards for the various classes of surface water in the state. The results of this study and a review of the literature reveal that many natural humic-colored aquatic systems (usually Class III waters) rarely meet the established 5 mg/L criteria. We believe, based on our studies, that these conditions are natural and do not result from organic pollution. In view of this, we believe a review of the current DER Standard, for humic-colored waters only, is in order.
24321835|In April and May 2000, we conducted surveys for rare vertebrate species on the Fisheating Creek Phase I easement lands, Glades County, FL, which contains ca. 3.3% of Florida's remaining dry prairie habitat. A large population of gopher tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus) is present, and we documented the gopher frog (Lithobates capito), American crocodile (Crocodylus acutus), eastern diamondback rattlesnake (Crotalus adamanteus), eastern indigo snake (Drymarchon couperi), and Florida pine snake (Pituophis melanoleucus). We recorded 68 families of Florida scrub-jays (Aphelocoma coerulescens) totaling 157 individuals and three active clusters of red-cockaded woodpeckers (Picoides borealis). The easement and adjacent lands had 16 possible previous nest sites of Florida sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis), seven Audubon's crested caracara (Caracara cheriway) territories, five southern bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) nests, and six swallow-tailed kite (Elanoides forficatus) nests. We observed signs of Florida black bear (Ursus americanus), and a male Florida panther (Puma concolor) moved onto the property and died of unknown causes. More intensive surveys would be necessary to document additional wildlife species and to determine population levels. We recommend the timely use of prescribed fire as a management tool to maintain or restore dry prairie, scrubby flatwoods, and scrub habitats for wildlife, cattle, and biological diversity.
24320759|Records from government agencies, local industries, consultants and individuals who had conducted air quality research in Duval County over the past 30 years were searched to find all documentable papers. The literature search is described in this first of a three-part series which was part of an attempt to find the cause for the high lung cancer rate in Duval County (50% higher than the national average among white males).
24320314|Field studies in a shallow lagoon indicated that quantitatively reliable estimates of inorganic nutrients, active phytoplankton chlorophyll a, and copepod nauplii can be obtained with a tube-type sampler. Samples collected in shallow, well-mixed water by a water column sampler (=7.62-cm ID, 4.57 m long, 0.021 m3 capacityPVC tube) and a discrete-depth sampler (=7.62-cm ID, 0.49 m long, 0.005 m3 capacityNiskin bottle) were statistically similar. The number of copepod nauplii captured in the tube sampler was significantly greater (ca. 2X) than the densities obtained in a 25-cm ID, 64-m mesh net.
24321201|The major objective of this study was to quantify temporal and spatial patterns of hypoxia in the Cedar Key salt marsh of northwestern Florida and identify predictors of dissolved oxygen availability. In the tidal creeks of the marsh, dissolved oxygen levels were highly variable, conforming to the general trend of coastal salt marshes. Hypoxic conditions (<2.0 mg l1) were not infrequent events at the collection site, occurring on 10 of the 13 sampling dates over a 21-mo period. Despite the number of interactive variables influencing dissolved oxygen concentration, there were clear diurnal trends, with oxygen levels being lower near sunrise. In addition, oxygen levels varied with season and tidal cycles. Daily mean dissolved oxygen measured when the morning tide was low was lowest in the summer and highest in the winter. Daily mean dissolved oxygen taken on an afternoon low tide was lowest in the summer and highest in the fall.
24319734|Several occurrences of an unknown species of Tricholoma were recorded during the summer of 1978. Pileus diameters of mature basidiocarps ranged from 20-75 cm. Habitat features are characterized. Aspects of growth and development under natural conditions are discussed.
24320620|Morphometric variables (body weight, beard length, spur lengths) were compared from male turkeys harvested from private tracts and Wildlife Management Areas during the 1992 and 1993 spring turkey seasons. Differences across years and between land type, age class, and regional zone were not significant. In data pooled across year and zone, differences in variables were not significant for hatching-year individuals. Differences in all variables for after-hatching-year (AHY) individuals were significant (P<0.0003), as was age at harvest. Compared to AHY turkeys harvested from public lands, those harvested from private lands were older (X=8.5 months), weighed significantly more, and had significantly longer beards and spurs.
24321662|The Indian River Lagoon (IRL) is a highly complex ecosystem that continues to defy full scientific understanding. This presents significant challenges to public understanding, effective ecosystem management, and long-term stewardship. For the IRL, the 21st century brings many challenges to maintain the health and biological diversity of this unique ecosystem in a region of unprecedented human population growth and coastal development. To address environmental challenges created by growth management policy failures, continued rapid expansion of the region's human population and emerging regional or global trends, IRL scientists must work to 1. Create a unified vision for IRL scientific research development and implementation; 2. Accelerate implementation of multidisciplinary research and monitoring programs that consider emerging threats and integrate both applied and basic research at a variety of spatial and temporal scales; and 3. Implement a coordinated and comprehensive approach to IRL education and information outreach to enhance scientific literacy and promote public understanding for the complex nature and value of the IRL (from molecular to ecosystem levels, with balanced integration of ecological, economic, and human-value perspectives). These actions require the application of leading-edge scientific knowledge, emerging new technologies in scientific research and communication, increased funding, and innovative thinking about the biotic and abiotic processes (including the human interactions) that serve as the functional cornerstones for IRL ecosystem health and sustainability.
24321219|Densities and length frequencies were different for Corbicula fluminea (Muller, 1774) collected from two habitat types, pool and run, in the New River (Suwannee Drainage), Florida. An area of 250 m2 in each habitat type was searched and excavated to determine Asian clam densities. Densities were greatest in the pool habitat, ranging from 0 to 512 individuals/0.25 m2 with a mean density of 26.9 individuals/0.25 m2 (SD = 49.47). Densities in the run ranged from 0 to 260 individuals/0.25 m2 with a mean density of 16.2 individuals/0.25 m2 (SD = 23.96). In the pool habitat, densities were greatest in clay and coarse sand substrates. In the run habitat, densities were greatest in sandy mud and detritus sediments. Length ranged from 8 to 25 mm in the pool and 3 to 27 mm in the run. Mean length in the pool habitat was 18.7 mm (SD = 2.15) and 17.9 mm (SD = 3.84) in the run habitat. Mean length was significantly greater in the pool (n = 2000, p = 1.5E09).
24319967|Equal access to education, employment opportunities, career options and independent functioning has long been the aspiration of individuals with physical handicaps. Historically, physically handicapped persons have been denied access to public education and employment opportunities commensurate with their abilities. This study supported these contentions and further indicated that barriers still exist for individuals with physical handicaps. The purpose of this study was to identify physically handicapped scientists in the State of Florida and to determine the extent to which businesses, agencies and organizations were employing scientists with handicaps. From the 608 businesses, agencies, and organizations surveyed, only 16 physically handicapped scientists were identified. A questionnaire was then sent to these 16 scientists to obtain specific information related to their educational training and professional career development. Analysis of the results revealed that, overall, few scientists with handicaps reside within the State of Florida; businesses, agencies and organizations are not employing the physically handicapped in scientific areas; and there is still gross underrepresentation of physically handicapped scientists in scientific fields.
24319987|More children previously thought unadoptable are being adopted. "Special needs" children can be successfully placed, but the process requires careful guidance. Twelve key informants were interviewed to produce information on adoption agencies in the Tampa Bay area. Questionnaires were administered to 132 providers and consumers of adoption counseling services, including foster, prospective and adoptive parents, adoptees, and various professional support personnel. The questionnaire concerned vital statistics, rating and ranking of counseling services, assessment of need for expanding existing services or creating new ones, and comments. Findings suggest that there is a need for expansion of counseling services. Shortages of staff, time, and funds place limitations on the amount and quality of counseling services provided.
24321544|A phylogenetic analysis of large ribosomal subunit (26S) rRNA gene DNA sequences suggests that the southern Indian pipe, Monotropa brittonii Small, is not a distinct species. Specifically, results from this analysis indicate that this taxon is phylogenetically indistinct from a set of North American representatives of M. uniflora, M. brittonii is most appropriately treated as synonym of M. uniflora.
24319554|The known number of living Indiana bats (Myotis sodalis) has declined 28% in the last 15 yr. Winter populations represent two large breeding units, Kentucky and Missouri, and other smaller units not delimited by existing data. Kentucky populations have declined 73%; an apparent 8% decline in Missouri reflects weather influence at one exposed roost, and Missouri populations are judged to be stable. Suitable winter habitat consists of caves and mines that have cool and stable temperatures all winter long. Typically these roosts have temperatures of 4 - 8C, enabling the bats to maintain such a low metabolism that their fat will last until spring. Causes of the decline are natural catastrophes (flooding and freezing in caves), disturbance by biologists and caving enthusiasts, and destruction of winter and summer habitat. Loss of 60,000 bats at one cave is attributable mainly to disturbance. About half of the total decline has resulted from habitat alteration structures built at cave entrances interfere with cave thermodynamic processes and make roosts too warm for bat survival. This habitat can be restored, and the decline may be reversible. Proper management should enable the species to increase its numbers to at least 615,000 individuals.
24319691|Specimens of the simultaneously hermaphroditic fish species Diplectrum formosum, the sandperch, and D. bivittatum, the dwarf sandperch, were collected near the Dry Tortugas, Florida, by means of shrimp trawl during December 1976. Stomach contents of 326 D. formosum (100 empty) and 325 D. bivittatum (131 empty) revealed little or no differences in their food habits relative to number and volume of food items, size of food items or the contribution, in grams, each food item makes to each fish. Both species primarily consumed amphipods, shrimp, crabs, fish, and polychaetes. Temporally, both species fed at the same 2 diurnal periods. Species were collected sympatrically but there were areas where each species dominates in relative abundance.
24320410|A finite element program, GROSEEP, was developed to estimate the groundwater seepage from the surficial aquifer into Indian River lagoon along a selected cross-section in Port St. Lucie, Florida. The model is a general purpose model and can be used at other cross-sections. Model results using a single layer indicate that groundwater seepage could be an important freshwater source into the lagoon. Sensitivity analysis using a threelayer model predicted that among other parameters the presence of windows in the clay layers could significantly affect seepage rates into the lagoon.
24319752|A new ecotype of Stylosanthes hamata (L.) Taub. was collected north of the Jupiter inlet. This S. hamata differed from previous collected ones in having smaller leaves, a more prostrate growth and stronger lateral branching. It could be grown at a wider range of pH's than most other ecotypes.
24321249|A stage-structured matrix model for the endangered American Crocodile (Crocodylus acutus) in Florida was constructed using published data and biologically reasonable estimates. The baseline version of the model yields a population growth rate d of 1.006, consistent with observations that the C. acutus population is slowly increasing in Florida. Elasticity or the proportional sensitivity of d with respect to changes in annual survivorship indicates that annual survivorship of sub-adults (1 m  2.25 m) has the greatest proportional effect on population growth. Annual survivorships can be affected by management and are, therefore, the parameters of most interest in this elasticity analysis. Simulated management scenarios further demonstrate the degree to which sub-adult annual survivorship can affect population growth. The finding that sub-adult annual survivorship has the greatest proportional effect on d suggests that management efforts should be concentrated toward this stage of the American crocodile.
24321535|New locality records are presented for five species of flies collected in south Florida: Aedes albopictus, Culex quinquefasciatus, Diachlorus ferrugatus, Drino rhoeo, and Stomoxys calcitrans.
24322279|We examined the diet of a February-May sample of the southern toad (Bufo terrestris) from the Everglades National Park. Above the familial level, 13 taxa were consumed, but ants (Hymenoptera) and beetles (Coleoptera) were consumed most by, and in the greatest number of stomachs of, juveniles, males, and females. Its diet was similar to that of other southern Florida populations and to that of its close relative, the Fowler's toad (B. woodhousei fowleri). Ants and beetles were likewise important dietary components of several other syntopic species in the southern Everglades where B. terrestris was one of the few ant and beetle specialists. The impact of its absence from much of urban southern Florida can not be underestimated when explaining the success of a number of exotic amphibians and reptiles that to some degree exploit or rely on one or both of these food resources.
24320350|Inputs oj copper from anti-fouling paints presently pose an environmental stress on some restricted embayments of the Indian River Lagoon, Florida. Over an 18 mo period, samples of water, suspended matter, sediments, barnacles, clams and crabs from selected sites along the Indian River and the Eau Gallie River, have been analyzed for copper. Higher than normal copper concentrations were consistently observed in the water column, sediments, barnacles and crabs collected from the Eau Gallie Harbor. Point sources of copper could be directly traced to vessel-related activities. From field data and laboratory experiments on the leaching of copper from anti-fouling paints, an estimated flux of 40 kg/yr to Eau Gallie Harbor was calculated. Up to 75 % of the total copper input to the harbor may be retained there. Outside such tributaries along the Indian River from Vero Beach to Melbourne, copper levels were within normal limits.
24321897|The 198384 Caribbean-wide mortality of the long-spined sea urchin Diadema antillarum Philippi was followed by a second mortality event in the Florida Keys in 1991. The demise of this formerly ubiquitous echinoid is one of several factors attributable to coral reef change. Over a 12-year period during 19992011, we examined densities and test sizes of D. antillarum at 1,411 sites spanning 250 km of the Florida Keys encompassing multiple habitats from inshore to the fore-reef slope. Underwater visual surveys along belt transects were used to enumerate numbers of individuals and test sizes in a stratified random sampling design. While pre-1983 densities were reported to be as high as 6 individuals/m2, surveys since 1999 indicate that current densities are well below 1 individual/m2. Although the maximum site-level density recorded during 19992011 was only 0.33 individuals/m2, there have been significant increases in the average size and maximum sizes of D. antillarum. The slow rate of population recovery may be due to low fertilization rates due to reduced population size, low larval survivorship, a lack of suitable recruitment sites, high early post-settlement mortality from predation or storms, and/or persistence of the pathogen. Regression analysis indicates that it could potentially take decades, if not longer, for D. antillarum to recover to pre-1983 density levels.
24321876|The Charlotte Harbor National Estuary Program (CHNEP) has established a foundation of objective, science-based tools to guide management of estuarine water quality and is furthering its goals under its Comprehensive Conservation and Management Plan (CCMP) to protect and restore water quality through rigorous assessment of these tools. In this study, we furthered the objectives of the CCMP by developing a water clarity evaluation and tracking tool for CHNEP estuarine waters. Benchmark points along a reference period distribution of water clarity were identified as management level criteria for evaluating water clarity and the binomial test was used to establish a scoring system to identify deviations from reference water quality conditions. The scoring system uses a rating scale that varies between -2 and 2. The resulting scores are tabulated and the numerical values are reported as color coded grades (i.e., red, yellow, or green). The grades are then compiled for each estuarine segment of the CHNEP into a table that can be easily integrated into public media formats including the new CHNEP Water Atlas.
24320051|Some 122 species and 4 varieties of benthic algae are reported from one or more of 10 different substrata, excluding seagrass leaves, or in the drift in the Anclote estuary near Tarpon Springs, Florida Gulf coast.
24319454|Young rose corals were intentionally undernourished to ease dissection of mesenterial filaments. Two types of capsular nematocysts were found in the filament; the distal ones being cylindrical and the proximal ones being tapered with a prominent axial shaft at the thicker end. Functions of these holotrichs and microbasic p-mastigophorea are not clear although extension of mesenterial filaments may have a defense/sacrifice role.
24321860|Seagrasses are important to estuarine health, influencing physical, chemical and biological environments of coastal waters. Seagrasses stabilize sediments, filter nutrients, and provide habitat for estuarine organisms. Understanding seagrass distribution and trends relative to freshwater input aids resource management. From 19962009, hydroacoustic technology was used to assess spatial and temporal fluctuations in seagrass coverage of the Caloosahatchee River Estuary relative to annual rainfall. Three estuarine areas, with different salinity regimes and species composition, were monitored three times a year for percent seagrass coverage and plant height. Sampling was performed at the beginning (spring), middle (summer), and end (fall) of the seagrass growing season. Results showed that seagrass percent coverage, percent volume infestation and plant height increased with distance downstream. All three parameters were greatest in summer, intermediate in fall and lowest during spring months. Annual rainfall influenced seagrass abundance differently. During average and wet years, seagrass measurements were greatest in summer, while in dry years measurements were similar in summer and fall. Study results indicated that seagrasses in the Caloosahatchee River Estuary are sensitive to inter-annual changes in rainfall. While there is considerable year to year variation, seagrass coverage has been relatively stable over the 13 year study period.
24319566|Zooplankton was collected from Lake Wales, Florida, from October, 1974, through September, 1975. Cladocera were the most numerous and diverse group of organisms: seven to nine species were collected each month. Cladocera abundance was seasonal, increasing in the spring as the water warmed. Copepod abundance was also related to season, with greater numbers collected in April, August and September. Rotifers were not well represented in monthly samples, but were abundant during January, April and August. Diurnal studies indicated that both Cladocera and cyclopoid copepod numbers differed significantly between day and night. Cladocera distributions were depth related, with greater numbers collected at mid-depth (1-2 m). Rotifers and calanoid copepod numbers were not correlated with either time of day or depth. The Lake Wales zooplankton community is similar to those in other central Florida lakes studied previously, but with a greater diversity of Cladocera and a paucity of rotifers.
24321406|Snags (submerged wood debris) provide one of the only stable substrates in the sand-bottomed rivers of Florida, and snag invertebrate communities are consistently one of the most species rich, diverse, and abundant of riverine ecosystem types. However, limited information exists on aquatic invertebrate communities in spring-run streams, and less exists on snag invertebrates in those ecosystems. Aquatic invertebrates on snags in the Ichetucknee River, a first-magnitude spring and spring-run stream complex located in north central Florida, were sampled in spring 2004. Invertebrates were abundant (mean density- 40,500/m2) and diverse (mean taxa richness- 33, evenness- 0.72, and diversity- 3.62) throughout the 4-km study area. Taxa from the groups Chironomidae, Trichoptera, aquatic Acari, and Amphipoda attained the greatest densities. Filterer/collectors (31%), gatherer/collectors (29%), shredders (15%), predators (12%), and scrapers (8%) account for 95% of snag invertebrates found in the study area. Community structure varied among the three morphometrically distinct reaches of the study area along with environmental conditions (current velocity, dissolved oxygen, canopy cover, and snag epiphyton biomass). As the human population of Florida continues to grow rapidly, it is imperative to monitor and protect the health of the state's springs. This data set, from a minimally-impacted spring-run stream, represents a baseline to which other spring-run streams can be compared.
24319448|Red algae are the most frequently encountered of the epiphytic marine forms in Puerto Rico. In all, 78 algal species were found to be epiphytic on 80 host species.
24320661|The Tosohatchee State Reserve in east Orange County, Florida, has a rich flora. Twelve plant species are reported from the reserve because of their uncommon occurrence or unusual distribution in central Florida.
24320415|Hourly current measurements recorded along the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway are used to quantify amplitudes and local phase angles of the principal tidal constituents in Florida's Indian River lagoon. Twenty-seven study sites located between latitudes 2710 and 2817N were occupied for periods of 12 months each during 19761988. Six principal tidal constituents (M2, S2, N2, K1, O1, and P1) have amplitudes greater than the precision of the measurements used to make the calculations. The semi-diurnal M2 constituent dominates all other tidal constituents. M2 amplitudes exceed 60 cm/s in the vicinity of Ft. Pierce Inlet; the amplitude just north of St. Lucie Inlet is approximately 45 cm/s. M2 amplitudes are relatively small in the vicinity of Sebastian Inlet: Values of 11 and 19 cm/s are computed from data obtained at study sites approximately 3 km north and south of the inlet, respectively. M2 amplitudes north of 2811N are less than 1 cm/s. A comparison of phase angles indicates that tidal wave forms propagate at speeds of 510 km/h. In the central parts of the central and southern segments of the lagoon, the time delay of any phase of the tide is 6.5 and 5 h, respectively, relative to Ft. Pierce Inlet.
24319904|A modified live trap for the capture of southeastern pocket gophers (Geomys pinetis) was developed for use in sandhill populations. Trapping success rate was 69 %. The rate of plugging of traps by pocket gophers was lower and capture rate much higher than for Sherman pocket gopher traps.
24322352|Comparing fish communities inhabiting ditches and diked shorelines associated with saltmarsh impoundments in the northern Indian River Lagoon, Florida, under a variety of management and reconnection strategies would be useful for predicting which strategies best benefit estuarine fishes. Sampling fish in impoundment habitats, however, has been challenging, particularly in impoundment ditches (borrow ditches used to provide fill for dikes), where soft sediments, sticks and debris, and fringing mangroves present problems for traditional sampling gear such as seines. The effectiveness of a cast net was tested by comparing the fish assemblages collected by this gear to those collected by throw trap and seine. Cast-net efficiency in impoundment ditches was estimated to be 0.100.28 (i.e., fish densities from cast net sampling represented 1028% of the true population). Although cast-net efficiency was less than that reported for throw traps and seines, species composition and sizes of fish were found to be comparable to the other gear. In addition to understanding differences in fish standing stock among habitats, measuring the ability of fishes to move through culverts that connect many impounded marshes to the estuary is important in gauging the success of reconnection efforts. The effectiveness of a modified culvert trap, which is lighter and less expensive than those previously used in impoundment studies, was tested. The culvert trap was successful at capturing fish moving through culverts in the microtidal environment of the northern Indian River Lagoon, and the retention efficiency of the trap was found to be 0.25 after 1012-hr sets. The cast net and modified culvert trap together allow for a comprehensive understanding of the fish community in impounded marshes, and each may have applications to other sampling conditions.
24319549|The collection of Ammocrypta bifascia from the Apalachicola River below Woodruff Dam, Florida, represents the first recorded occurrence of the genus Ammocrypta in this major drainage and constitutes an important eastward range extension for sand darters in the Gulf coastal region.
24319647|The Pleistocene Miami Limestone Formation presently consists of the Miami Oolite and Key Largo Reef facies. It is proposed here that the Miami Oolite fades he considered as 2 separate units within the Miami Limestone Formation and penecontemporaneous to the Key Largo Reef limestone. The lower unit is called the Key West Oolite and the upper is called the Fort Dallas Oolite. The Fort Dallas unit is considered an eolian dune field formed by the breakdown of various oolitic marine bars across the mouth of Florida Bay, while the Key West unit is the remanents of some of these bars formed behind the Key Largo Reef in Sangamon time. This new division of the Miami Limestone Formation was based on field outcrops, above and below the water, the fossils, well cuttings, and an SEM study of the ooids.
24320347|A study of the most abundant sipunculan found in the Indian River Lagoon, Phascolion cryptus Hendrix, 1975, was conducted on a monthly basis from June 1976 through May 1977. These animals, which inhabit discarded gastropod shells in shallow water, were found in densities of 667 to 3,856/m2 at a station 9.25 km north of the Fort Pierce Inlet, Florida. Adult Phascolion were common in shells of 5 species of gastropods. Most frequently they inhabited Cerithium muscarum shells which comprised an average of 85% of those available for inhabitance. Population numbers were not limited by shell availability. Reproductive activity was estimated by the developmental state of coelomic gametes and spawning in the laboratory. Animals were reproductive throughout the year with a trend for higher reproductive activity from November through May. Juveniles, commonly occupying shells of Bittium varium, comprised 37 to 58% of the population during winter, spring and summer, decreasing to an average of 15.5% in the fall.
24319736|Observations of 4 spawnings of Geophagus hondae revealed a ritualized spawning sequence. The female began mouthbrooding of eggs immediately after egg deposition.
24321050|Commercially available selenium-supplement tablets, obtained from a supermarket and a health food store in several lots were analyzed to compare reported and observed values of total selenium. Atomic absorption spectrometry with a hydride generator was used, and the results were confirmed for selected lots using inductively coupled plasma (ICP) spectrometry. Results indicate more variation than might be suspected. Several lots contained a significantly higher amount of selenium than reported with one lot having 50% more. One brand contained only 2025% of the reported concentration, a significantly lower amount. Tablets were analyzed and compared to determine which brand, if any, had the most reliable amount per tablet.
24320999|Algae of the three habitats are mostly unicellular chlorophytes and cyanophytes, but chrysophycean, diatom, and euglenoid taxa are often well represented. Earlier studies were concerned with identification of the organisms in relation to specific habitats, in contrast to more recent research where confident identifications and quantitative data have been obtained from laboratory and field research. The organisms cause human and animal disease, fertilize soil, and deteriorate natural and man-made structures.
24321986|Plants have evolved chemical, morphological and biological mechanisms to defend against attack by insect herbivores, with virtually all plants employing more than one strategy. We asked whether simulated herbivory on passionflower (Passiflora incarnata) would increase leaf thickness, trichome length or density, or the production of extrafloral (EF) nectar and whether there were tradeoffs between these traits. Fifty-seven potted plants, belonging to nine genotypes, were divided into two groups. Plants in the control group were unmanipulated, while the leaves of plants in the treatment group were clipped in half with scissors throughout the summer of 2011. We quantified the amount of EF nectar produced by each plant on two separate occasions in June. At the final plant harvest in September, we measured leaf thickness, trichome density and trichome length on three haphazardly chosen leaves from each mature plant. Both leaf thickness and EF nectar production increased with herbivory (both p < 0.05), but there was no effect of treatment on trichome density or length. There were differences among genotypes for three traits, and evidence for negative genetic correlations between two pairs of traits. Such tradeoffs could constrain evolutionary response to selection and may be responsible for the evolution and maintenance of alternative plant defense strategies within a species.
24320458|This paper is a study of sea turtle hatchling, post-hatchling, and sub-adult behavior and growth. Some of my here-to-fore unpublished observations on jellyfish in Florida coastal waters, scatophagy by captive green turtles and long-term survival of headstarted green turtles are reported. The effects of ocean currents on such turtles are considered as well as information on the oceanic distribution of suitable food resources.
24321014|Aerial surveys of manatees (Trichechus manatus latirostris) were conducted between March 1994 and May 1998 to assess temporal trends in counts and activities of manatees in the Lower St. Johns River (LSJR) and Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway (ICW). More manatees were observed in the LSJR compared to the ICW. Most (5079%) manatees in LSJR were engaged in resting activity, followed by traveling (1721%) and feeding (1121%), with few observed cavorting (410%). In the ICW, manatees engaged in traveling (876%) and resting (1889%) predominantly, with little feeding (011%) and no cavorting. This suggested that the ICW was used primarily as a travel corridor for seasonal north/south migrations. Seasonal analysis revealed that manatees were distributed throughout most of the study area except in winter months, when manatees congregated at industrial sites that discharge warm-water (information about manatee usage of these sites is also discussed). Manatee seasonal distribution was correlated with high concentrations of tape grass (Vallisneria americana) which is a preferred food source for manatees. Most manatees were distributed within 91 m from shore and used the protected areas near lines of private and commercial docks to rest, feed, travel and cavort.
24321735|We examined spatial patterns of regeneration in two fringing mangrove forests along Biscayne Bay, Florida, five years after Hurricane Andrew. We quantified the intra- and interspecific spatial dispersion of Avicennia germinans (L.) Stearn (black mangrove), Laguncularia racemosa Gaertn.f. (white mangrove) and Rhizophora mangle L. (red mangrove) within plots affected by the northern eyewall (Cutler Canal, higher maximum winds and storm tide) and by the eye (Mowry Canal, lower maximum winds and storm tide) of the hurricane. We used point-to-plant and plant-to-plant distances to calculate dispersion indices for surviving trees and saplings of each species. Trees and saplings of all species were strongly aggregated at both sites. However, saplings of all species were hyperdispersed from hurricane-surviving trees and heterospecific saplings. This pattern tended to be stronger at Mowry Canal than Cutler Canal. Furthermore, aggregates of saplings at Mowry Canal tended to be monospecific, whereas more local mixing of species occurred at Cutler Canal. We hypothesize that greater storm intensity and higher mortality of Rhizophora advance recruits at Cutler Canal may have contributed to these differences in regeneration. Our results suggest that local variation in hurricane effects may be important to spatial patterns in south Florida fringing mangrove forests.
24321477|Observations of Strymon acis bartrami feeding and territorial behavior are described. Additional records of plant nectar sources for adult S. a. bartrami and larval feeding on sap are also reported. Seasonal occurrence of Anaea troglodyta floridalis at Sphyrapicus varius feeding holes is documented. Use of frass chains by early instar A. t. floridalis larvae is discussed.
24320770|The dominant term in the estimation of net flux calculation, between a marsh and a source of tidal water is often the exchange of water. The purpose of this study was to provide a description of the methodology used to estimate the volumetric exchange of surface waters between a managed marsh and the Indian River Lagoon during the managed and unmanaged periods. The paper also documents the simplifying assumptions that had to be made to estimate the exchanges both during the managed and unmanaged period. These assumptions had to be made either because the data were limited mainly due to the cost constraints of the project, or the hydrologic variables were functions of random processes that were difficult to model. The volumetric exchanges during the managed period were computed using direct flow measurements as well as by water balance and the estimated values were within 4.4 percent of each other. The exchanges during the unmanaged period were computed using only direct flow measurements. During the unmanaged period, the bulk of the water is exchanged during mid tide but the magnitude of the exchange depends on the high tide elevation.
24320376|The postures of immobile woodland salamanders (15 species of the genus Plethodon) were observed in the field throughout the southeastern United States. There were a few significant differences among species in the frequency of three generalized posture categories, but these differences are not interpretable in terms of morphological, phylogentic, or ecological differences between species. Linear configurations were most commonly observed. Small-bodied species coiled more than large-bodied species. The duration of immobility varied significantly among posture categories, but salamander length was only marginally different among categories. There probably are no specific immobility postures in Plethodon that serve solely antipredator functions. Individuals remain immobile in the position in which they are encountered.
24320150|Management of citrus blight, a condition resulting in declining fruit production, involves the rapid detection and removal of trees displaying early symptoms. Since the spectral quality of light reflected from affected trees is modified as the disease progresses, spectra from trees in different health states were analyzed using a least squares technique to determine if the health class could be assessed by computer. The spectrum from a given tree was compared, using an Apple computer, with a set of library spectra representing trees of different health classes. The computed solutions indicated a very close agreement with field observations. In addition, the computed results also indicated that many trees were heterogeneous, with portions of the crown being in different health classes. Although the degree of heterogeneity was not assessed in the field data, it was frequently observed in the diseased trees. These preliminary results indicate that solving aerial spectral reflectance data may permit accurate classification of objects even when dissimilar objects contribute to the spectrum.
24320204|Dental and postcranial remains of the primitive three-toed browsing horse Hypohippus chico, new species, are described from the Bone Valley phosphate mining district of central Florida. This is the first report of this genus from eastern North America. Hypohippus chico, the smallest known species of Hypohippus, is clearly referable to this genus based on several diagnostic dental characters. The Florida Hypohippus chico supports the presence of medial Miocene (i.e., pre-Hemphillian) units within the Bone Valley Formation.
24321223|Data from fixed-station sampling conducted during 19911997 were used to determine the timing of recruitment, the seasonal changes in abundance, and the growth and mortality rates ofage-0 spot (Leiostomus xanthurus) populations in the Indian River Lagoon (IRL) and Halifax River (HR) along the Atlantic coast of Florida. The magnitude of recruitment was greater in the HR system than in the IRL, particularly during the comparatively weak year-class of 1994. In the IRL, juvenile growth rates varied between years, with the instantaneous growth coefficient (G) ranging from 0.28 to 0.73. In the HR, however, growth varied little, with G ranging from 0.36 to 0.43. Estimates of mortality (Z) ranged from 0.02 to 0.08/d for the IRL and from 0.02 to 0.03/dfor the HR. For age-0 spot, recruitment, growth, and mortality varied greatly between years and systems and may be strongly constrained by the impact advective processes have on larval supply to the estuary and by the distance to the nursery habitats has on the distribution and survival of settling juveniles within the estuary.
24319674|The occurrence of yellow bullheads, Ictalurus natalis, in two caves is recorded. The bullheads are associated with another troglophilic fish, Hybopsis harperi, in both caves. Analysis of stomach contents of the bullheads indicates that mud, leaf detritus, pieces of limestone rock, and springtails (Collembola) are commonly ingested. One specimen had ingested a troglobitic crayfish, Procambarus lucifugus. The presence of juvenile bullheads in the caves suggests possible spawning in the subterranean system. Developmental abnormalities (lack of pelvic fins, lack of adipose fin, deformed caudal fin) were noted for several specimens, indicating that inbreeding in a small, isolated population may be occurring.
24321865|Fish communities in the Peace River were assessed biannually via electrofishing from fall 2007 through spring 2010. Habitat characteristics were quantified for each electrofishing transect to allow comparison with fish community data. We determined fish population characteristics, calculated habitat suitability indices and curves, and compared fish communities across river section, season, year, and with physicochemical parameters. Fish communities differed in each section of the river (i.e., lower, middle, upper) but did not differ across seasons or years. The strongest correlations of changes in community structure with physicochemical variables and habitat metrics occurred for measures of habitat complexity, followed by water velocity and conductivity. Species-specific habitat affinities were found to overlap substantially, but some differences were apparent and could explain broad-scale distributional differences in habitat use among the species. In conclusion, the sections used to delineate the river in this study, based primarily on differences in geology and hydrology along the course of the river, were comprised of different fish communities. The habitat affinities of fishes identified in this study should be useful to resource managers for modeling biotic responses to changes in river water levels and habitat availability.
24321792|Estuarine trophic transfer depends on many biological, chemical, and hydrodynamic factors, among which are size, biodiversity and ecology of the resident populations. In the Indian River Lagoon (IRL), Florida, USA, a biogeographically transitional area between temperate and tropical zones, we hypothesized that measuring the size fractions of planktonic chlorophyll as a proxy for microalgal biomass was insufficient to determine the trophic transfer potential and ecological preference of microalgal biodiversity. Over a period covering two rainy seasons and one dryer season, our goals were to: (1) clarify the alpha-diversity of dominant microalgae found in the plankton; (2) compare the relative contributions of size fractions as chlorophyll in rainy and dryer periods; (3) determine the efficacy of filtration for chlorophyll size fractions in separating morphologically and ecologically dissimilar microalgal species. Our chlorophyll results show substantial variability in time and space between the "rainy" and "dryer" annual cycle. The contribution of the <10m fraction of plankton chlorophyll is highly variable in the short term but not unusual when compared with other areas, even though historically the choice of screen mesh size to separate smaller sizes may be highly individualistic. Many of the dominant microalgae are not truly planktonic in an ecological sense, but include benthic, epiphytic, epizoic, and habitat indifferent species. Separating microalgae on the basis of size using mesh netting is misleading because of variability in microalgal morphology, variability of microalgal life cycles, and the complexity of interaction between microalgae and their grazers. Thus, the size fractionation of chlorophyll may have limited utility in understanding the ecology of the IRL system. We suggest that microhabitats, morphological variability, life cycle phenomena, and grazer interaction are important considerations in the use of size-fractionated chlorophyll in questions of trophic transfer.
24320114|The tremendous surge in population and development in the area has placed a severe strain on the System which is comprised of five contiguous areas1) Old Tampa Bay, 2) Hillsborough Bay, 3) Tampa Bay, 4) Boca Ciega Bay, and 5) Terra Ceia Bay. The System extends over some 346 square miles and includes 212 miles of shoreline. Coliform bacteria counts in Old Tampa Bay and Hillsborough Bay have been high enough to justify limiting contact sports and shellfishing. Water quality is affected by discharges from 55 sewage treatment plants, more than 90 industries and over 100 marinas. Primary productivity is among the highest in the world. A great diversity of marine life is present from both temperate and tropical regions. Projects in progress or proposed threaten every part of the System and a means for proper management must be established to avoid a degradation of its waters.
24319641|Circulation of the Fort Pierce Inlet and adjacent portions of the Indian River on Florida's Central East Coast was investigated during a 2 yr period. The currents were predominantly tidally driven, with wind effects becoming more important in the shallower areas of the Indian River and with increasing distance from the Inlet area. Variations in the salinity structure of the waters in the inlet area occur largely with the tidal stage.
24321547|In response to low lake levels in 2007, a habitat enhancement project was conducted on Lake Okeechobee to remove excess organic sediments and associated vegetation. These types of projects are commonly done in Florida lakes to benefit sport fish populations. However, little attention has been given to the impacts of these projects on reptiles and amphibians. As bulldozers scraped the lake bottom back to mineral soil, monitoring was done to identify the impacted herpetofauna. The most detected species was the greater siren (Siren lacertina), a large, benthic salamander that burrows into the organic sediments on the lake bottom and reduces metabolic activity (aestivates) to survive dry conditions.
24321883|A collaborative partnership of public agencies, private consultants, private developers, and the academic community is being successfully applied to monitoring the effectiveness of Best Management Practices (BMPs) used to treat stormwater in southwest Florida within the Charlotte Harbor National Estuary Program (CHNEP). The resulting publicly available data generated can be used to guide practical stormwater policy revisions by supplying region- and BMP-specific information to policy makers. The public-private-academic partnership provides a mechanism by which the strengths of each partner have combined into a common effort towards completing research projects efficiently, while generating quality data. This partnership has engaged in multiple BMP research projects, including a green roof study, a pervious/impervious pavement study, wet detention/aeration studies, a long term discharge study and a groundwater-surface water interaction study. The studies, some still ongoing, have produced notable results. Variations in stormwater volume and associated pollutant loading discharge are sensitive to site-specific conditions including amount of impervious area, depth to groundwater tables, rainfall distribution, and local geology. Additional monitoring is needed to better understand these relationships. Enhanced local information on BMP function and efficiency will facilitate the creation of treatment trains to best protect downstream receiving waters and meet the needs of natural systems.
24320959|We compared the densities of plant species in Lake Wales Ridge scrubby flatwoods communities between gaps and shrub-dominated (matrix) microsites across a chronosequence composed of sites differing in time since last fire. Gap areas were dynamic with over half of the landscape area in gaps and open sand following fire. However, the landscape quickly returned to a matrix-dominated state with prefire levels for gap size (mean: 12 m2), gap area (mean: 1218 %), and open sand (mean: 310 %) after three years postfire. Gap specialists, mainly herbs, comprised 28% of locally common and 84% of locally uncommon species. Variation in small ramet density was consistently correlated with time-since-fire for 11 of 18 common species. Microhabitat (gap or matrix) proved to be an important factor for four species, but gap size and percent litter in the gap did not generally affect ramet densities. Periodic fires or a fire mosaic are needed to create gaps, which may be especially critical for the regeneration and persistence of gap-dependent species in scrubby flatwoods communities. Time-since-fire is especially important for gap specialists in scrubby flatwoods in contrast to the weak coupling of gap availability with fire in the more open, xeric rosemary scrub.
24321869|Seasonal abundances of two large fishes, common snook Centropomus undecimalis and largemouth bass Micropterus salmoides, were surveyed in the lower portion of the Peace River, Florida, 20042010. During and just prior to the study period, a number of environmental disturbances occurred: the passage of five hurricanes over the river's basin in 2004 and 2005, resulting in high river flows and one large-scale hypoxic event, and extreme cold temperatures in 2010. The two species responded differently to these events. In the year following hurricane-induced hypoxia (20042005), adult largemouth bass were absent from our collections. Common snook, however, were up to three times more abundant than during subsequent years (20072010); increased river flow, abundance of prey, and lack of interspecific competition may have contributed to the high abundance. A record cold winter in 2010 initially reduced the abundance of common snook in the lower river, but abundance quickly returned to pre-event levels. Largemouth bass abundance appeared unaffected by the extreme cold event. These results illustrate how disturbance events can temporarily affect the community structure of aquatic systems and create challenges for managers striving to track long-term trends in species populations.
24321887|Charlotte Harbor, Florida, is a series of interconnected shallow estuaries surrounded by low-lying uplands and a population of approximately 780,000 people. Direct and indirect impacts of human development as well as an accelerating rate of sea level rise have had and will continue to have dramatic effects on the distribution of this system's coastal habitats. The long term sustainability of this estuarine system and surrounding human communities depends on understanding past and predicted future coastal scenarios, allowing effective adaptation, restoration and management decisions. To understand historical changes, we compared recent coastal habitat distribution information to that reported in an earlier study (Harris et al., 1983) using geospatial analysis. To understand likely future conditions, we applied the Sea Level Affecting Marshes Model (SLAMM) over a 100 year period using slower, moderate and faster sea level rise (SLR) scenarios of 0.7 m, 1.0 m and 2.0 m, respectively. Our analyses show that while some coastal wetland habitats increased over the sixty year period from 1945 to present, modeling results through 2100 predicted net losses of tidal flat, coastal forest and inland freshwater marsh under all three SLR scenarios. Mangrove swamp and saltmarsh decreased under the fastest rate of SLR modeled.
24321070|Weather and water temperature data from two study sites in the northern part of Florida Bay are used to describe freshwater gains and losses by precipitation and evaporation from December 1996 to March 1997. Weather data from a third study site in southern Florida Bay provide estimates of evaporative water losses from July to December 1998, and from February to July 1999. Average evaporation rates at Johnson Key and Butternut Key in northern Florida bay are 0.015 and 0.012 cm h-1, respectively. High-frequency fluctuations about the mean are irregular, and a consistent diurnal cycle is poorly defined. Day-to-day maximum evaporation rates are highly variable, with evaporative losses usually exceeding 0.02 cm h-1 and occasionally exceeding 0.06 cm h-1. At both Johnson Key and Butternut Key, freshwater gains during the winter dry season are substantially less than evaporative losses. Results from southern Florida Bay include an average evaporative loss of 0.024 cm h-1 during the first of two field studies, and 0.023 cm h-1 during the second. Again, high-frequency variability is prominent, and the diurnal cycle is poorly defined.
24321821|We investigated the behavioral response of Florida bog frog (Lithobates [Rana] okaloosae), bronze frog (L. clamitans), and southern leopard frog (L. sphenocephala) tadpoles to chemical cues from two predators, the banded water snake (Colubridae: Nerodia fasciata) and the red fin pickerel (Esocidae: Esox americanus). Bog and bronze frogs are close relatives that breed in permanentwater habitats. The leopard frog is a more distant relative to L. okaloosae and typically breeds in ephemeral habitats. Predation pressure differs between permanent and ephemeral habitats. Banded water snakes occur in the habitats of all tadpole species used in this study. Large pickerel, however, are common only in the deeper sections of the permanent streams inhabited by L. okaloosae and L. clamitans and typically are absent from the ephemeral breeding wetlands of L. sphenocephala. Bog frog tadpoles were the least active (i.e., less time swimming) ranid in all predator treatments. Despite the close relationship and similar habitats of bog and bronze frogs, L. clamitans was the most active species. L. sphenocephala tadpoles swam less in predator treatments than the control; a result that contrasts with previous research that suggested species that breed in ephemeral wetlands should respond less to predators.
24319858|The first United States collections of the Mayan cichlid (Cichlasoma urophthalmus), a native of Central America, were made in January 1983 in Everglades National Park, Florida. Subsequent surveys have shown that its distribution is limited to two areas in the Taylor Slough drainage basin. Several dozen specimens, both juveniles and adults, ranging from 54.0 mm to 191.0 mm S.L., were collected and observed from 1983 to 1985. The larger population inhabits an estuarine creek system where spawning was observed in 1984 and 1985 at salinities of 26  and 10 , respectively. A smaller population occurs in a strictly freshwater habitat subject to seasonally-fluctuating water levels. Establishment of the Mayan cichlid is indicated by observations of spawning activity, the wide range of specimen lengths, and its persistence for three years in park waters. The potential for range expansion is enhanced by its exceptional tolerance of changes in salinity and water levels and its ability to colonize varied habitats. These data suggest that the Mayan cichlid may become a permanent member of Florida's ichthyofauna. The source of the introduction remains unknown.
24321923|Florida LAKEWATCH is a successful example of a long-term volunteer water quality-monitoring program that started in 1986. Working with thousands of volunteers, these dedicated citizen scientists have collected reliable long-term water quality data for over 1100 lakes, 175 coastal sites, 120 rivers, and 5 springs. These data encompass water resources in 57 Florida counties. This manuscript describes the start and evolution of LAKEWATCH, including discussions of the following two major (of the many) hurdles to the continued success of the program: 1) demonstrating to professional groups that trained volunteers are capable of collecting credible (research and regulatory quality) data, and 2) maintaining consistent long-term funding. Funding is especially critical because trained and committed core staff is needed to work along with volunteers. Quality staff members are also important to provide direction, ensuring consistent data are collected and enough sites are monitored to answer statewide questions such as how geology impacts water chemistry in Florida. Examples are also provided on how LAKEWATCH data have been used to address lake management issues (i.e., "fixing" the problem) in the State of Florida. We hope the Florida LAKEWATCH experience assists other groups who have a vast army of citizen scientists waiting to get involved and then to best develop a successful monitoring program.
24320516|Two 28-day experiments were conducted with White Leghorn hens to determine whether the effect of Crotalaria spectabilis (Roth) was at least partially due to reduced feed intake and to examine nutrient fortification as a means of managing low-level contamination problems. Pair-fed birds performed comparably to those receiving their respective levels of seed addition. Increased dietary nutrient density was associated with significantly improved egg production at each level of seed addition. Daily feed intake was also improved for 368 and 736 mg/kg seed treatments. The mortality rate was not affected in either study. A substantial portion of crotalaria's effect appeared related to reduced feed intake, and nutrient fortification may be helpful in the management of such contamination problems.
24321927|The debate over teaching evolution in Florida's schools has been active since the 1920s. Historically, the struggle to retain science-based curricula has relied on individual efforts. In 2005 a volunteer group of Floridians formed Florida Citizens for Science to promote and publicly champion sound science education in the state's schools. The members worked to ensure proponents of evolution instruction were represented on Florida's science standards committee in 2007, and have been active and prominent with ongoing public education and outreach efforts.
24321128|Pollinator visitation may affect fecundity and gene flow, and itself is affected by myriad habitat features. We examined the relative effects of flower density, fruiting plant density, and fire history on pollinator visitation rate to patches of Hypericum cumulicola, a rare, self-compatible Florida scrub endemic. We also measured seed set across a range of pollinator visitation rates. Small native solitary bees of the genus Dialictus (Hymenoptera: Halictidae) made 99% (348/ 350) of all observed visits. Visiting Dialictus were supported atop the anthers by stiff filaments as they harvested the abundant pollen, but were too small to make frequent contact with the stigmas during foraging. Dialictus bees were observed contacting stigmas most often when first arriving at flowers, likely increasing the chances of outcrossing. While short visits (< 10 s) occurred all morning, duration of the longest visits decreased as the morning progressed, probably reflecting depleted pollen supplies. Visitation rate (visits per plant per minute) increased with flower density (In flowers per m2) indicating that visitation rate to H. cumulicola is positively density-dependent. Fire history, fruiting plant density, and flower height did not directly affect visitation rate. Populations that had higher visitation rates had higher average seed set. Since flowering density decreases with time since last fire, long unburned patches of H. cumulicola suffer lower fecundity, and are likely more susceptible to inbreeding depression due to the compound effects of few potential mates and low pollinator visitation rates.
24320177|A floodplain forest in north Florida produced more flower and fruit biomass in annual litter fall than did a pine plantation or a cypress dome during the same year. This suggests that, although all three ecosystems were common in the north Florida landscape, floodplain forests were the most important to frugivorous wildlife. In all three ecosystems, fruit availability was greatest in spring and fall.
24319628|Distribution of the isopod Sphaeroma terebrans in Florida was recorded by measuring its relative density at 51 stations located around the State. The species was found continuously on the west coast from Tarpon Springs to Flamingo, and on the east coast, intermittently from New Smyrna Beach to Jupiter and continuously from Jupiter to Card Sound. The organism was absent from the Florida Keys. Sphaeroma was usually found in the prop roots of Rhizophora mangle but was also observed in branches and roots of Laguncularia racemosa, Avicennia nitida and at one location in Conocarpus erectus where exposed to water.
24319862|The distribution and status of the 84 species of birds from the Cay Sal Bank islands (8 recorded for the first time) and 42 from the Ragged Islands (13 recorded for the first time) are discussed. The 137 new locality records for these 2 groups of Bahama Islands are based largely on unpublished materials from the Paul Bartsch Expedition of 1930. The 24 species that probably breed (or bred formerly) on the Cal Sal Bank include 10 seabirds and 9 land birds; 11 seabirds and 13 land birds are among the 31 that probably breed in the Raggeds. The resident birds in both areas are species generally widespread in the Bahaman-Antillean region.
24319585|In a series of experiments, the scallop's shell closure responses to visual stimulation were studied. Recordings were made of the animal's responses to repeated offsets of illumination. The findings indicated that the responses declined in amplitude over a series of offsets. The decline in responding increased as the length of the interval between offsets decreased. It was found that the decline in responding could not be attributed to either an effector or receptor mechanism. It was therefore concluded that the decline was due to a central process. The investigation also revealed that the amplitude of the response to the first offset was found to depend upon both the duration and the intensity of the light.
24321843|Little is known about turtle-mediated seed dispersal (chelonochory) in riparian ecosystems. During a mark-recapture study of turtles in the Santa Fe River in northern Florida, we opportunistically collected 79 Common Persimmon (Diospyros virginiana) seeds defecated by wild-caught Snapping Turtles (Chelydra serpentina), Suwannee Alligator Snapping Turtles (Macrochelys suwanniensis), and Yellow-bellied Sliders (Trachemys scripta). Thirty-five of the seeds germinated when planted under semi-natural conditions. The proportion of seeds that germinated was not significantly different among the samples from each of the three turtle species. We suggest that terrestrial placement of seeds probably occurs when a turtle defecates in an inundated floodplain and seeds sink but later germinate in situ after the flooded river recedes to the main channel. This requires synchronization of D. virginiana fruiting and river flooding, which only occurred twice in the Santa Fe River during the past ten years. Thus, turtles likely play a minor role as dispersers of D. virginiana seeds in the Santa Fe River ecosystem.
24320401|The increase in the number of environmental regulations have created a new awareness in the validity of laboratory data. What was once thought of as being only the responsibility of the laboratory has now been reevaluated. The five aspects of environmental data, comparability, representativeness, precision, accuracy, and completeness, should now be considered the joint responsibility of the laboratory and consultant.
24319781|I discuss the results of a 5-mo study that is concerned with work-related activities and attitudes of nonsupervisory white collar workers in a bureaucratic setting. Problems and advantages of the ethnographic method of study are addressed. Job functions are related to attitudes towards supervisory personnel, job attitudes, and job tasks. Suggestions are made as to input by the nonsupervisory staff.
24319587|The occurrence and frequency of Azotobacter spp. present on leaf surfaces of central Florida citrus trees bearing sooty mold fungi and in soil in which the trees grew were determined. Azotobacter chroococcum, Azotobacter beijerinkii and an unidentified Azotobacter sp. which produces a large mucoid colony were evenly dispersed in the canopy. The dispersion of the mucoid colony producing Azotobacter sp. in the soil was uneven and was not in the control soil devoid of citrus trees. This study indicates that nitrogen-fixing Azotobacter spp. may be regularly associated with the sooty mold colony on citrus leaves in Central Florida.
24319468|The first known colonies of the oriental snail Melanoides tuberculata were collected in South Florida in 1971. The snails were found in both fresh and brackish canal waters. Melanoides is also known to be an intermediate host of a human parasite Philohthalmus sp. Both the snail and the parasite are prevalent in the Orient and have been reported in San Antonio, Texas. The potential for human infestation does exist in Florida with the presence of the intermediate host but is probably unlikely.
24320980|Drift fence arrays were used to survey the herpetofauna of sandhill, sand pine (Pinus clausa) plantation, mesic flatwoods, coastal and inland hydric hammocks, basin swamp, dome swamp, basin marsh, depression marsh, and tidal marsh habitats in the Spring Creek (SC) and Tide Swamp (TS) units of the Big Bend Wildlife Management Area in Taylor County, Florida. We also surveyed xeric hammock in SC and scrub in TS. Sampling was conducted with 27 arrays in SC for 153 days in 1992 and with 20 arrays in TS for 218 days in 1993. We captured 1,916 amphibians of 25 species and 414 reptiles of 35 species in SC and 632 amphibians of 16 species and 350 reptiles of 29 species in TS. The proportion of aquatic, semiaquatic, terrestrial, arboreal, and fossorial species in comparable habitats in SC and TS typically differed because aquatic/semiaquatic species were proportionally more dominant in SC than in TS habitats. Capture rates were higher in SC than in TS because of more captures of aquatic/semiaquatic herpetofauna, especially in wetland habitats, which was probably related to greater precipitation and longer hydroperiods during the survey of SC. Weekly capture rates of amphibians were correlated with amount of precipitation in SC terrestrial and wetland habitats and in TS terrestrial habitats. Nine new species were documented for Taylor County. In wetland habitats sampled by silt-fence arrays, single arrays captured an average of only 54.3% (SC) and 68.1% (TS) of the total number of species documented in a given habitat type using multiple arrays. In terrestrial habitats sampled by metal-valley arrays, single arrays in SC and TS captured an average of 65.6% and 67.5%, respectively, of the total number of species documented in a habitat type using multiple arrays. During the first month of trapping, drift fence arrays captured an average of 59.4% (SC) and 31.1% (TS) of the total number of species that were eventually captured in a habitat type. Xeric hammock was the most productive terrestrial habitat and dome swamp the most productive wetland habitat in terms of herpetofaunal abundance and species richness. Herpetofaunal diversity of sand pine plantations was similar to that of altered sandhill habitat.
24321206|This annotated bibliography represents a revised effort to compile the available material dealing, either primarily or peripherally, with the sand pine scrub community in Florida. The literature survey utilized a computer search of four data bases, a hand search of local libraries, references contained in pertinent articles, unpublished studies and research projects, and resource information from private, state, and federal agencies. References concerning taxonomic botany and faunal associates are for the most part not included. The Scrub ecosystem is one of the oldest plant communities in Florida and is rapidly becoming fragmented and isolated due to encroachment of urban areas. As much as 95% or more of this upland plant community has been lost in Palm Beach County alone due to development over the past 20 years. Other areas such as the Lakes Wales Ridge in central Florida, once thought of as a wilderness island, have seen most of the natural scrub being replaced by large scale citrus groves, with estimates of loss ranging from 8090% of the original scrub. About 40% of the scrub ecosystems in Brevard County are contained within federal government ownership, but recent mapping studies indicate that about 75% or more of this plant community has been eliminated over the past 40 years. Estimates suggest that by the year 2000, as much as 80% of the scrub in southern Florida may have been lost or impacted due to urban sprawl. A growing concern for the disappearance of this relic community has resulted in the Federal listing of many scrub endemics, as well as a rapid increase in land acquisition for nature preserves around the state. This rapid demise has led to a three-fold increase in the amount of research and study of this unique plant community. This bibliography represents an updated effort to include research on plants, animals, and insects endemic to the scrub pine community. Included is the most recent research on management and preservation of the scrub ecosystem.
24319955|Rays were collected in the central section of the Indian River lagoon, primarily during the summer and fall months of 1982-1986. We took data on 369 individuals of seven species: Dasyatis americana, Dasyatis sabina, Dasyatis sayi, Gymnura micrura, Rhinoptera bonasus, Aetobatus narinari, and Mobula hypostoma. Of those species regularly collected, Dasyatis sayi was most abundant, D. americana least abundant. Both sexes of all species were captured, but the sex ratio of G. micrura was strongly skewed in favor of females. Size-frequency data suggest that both immature and mature individuals of D. sayi, D. americana, and A. narinari reside in the lagoon. No sawfish (Pristis pectinata) were captured, adding further evidence to the suggestion that this species has been extirpated from the lagoon system. Mobula hypostoma is reported for the first time from the Indian River lagoon system. The species captured and their relative abundance confirm the importance of ocean inlets to the distribution of fishes in the Indian River lagoon system.
24320708|This paper summarizes the rationale for consolidating data for the Cockroach Bay Aquatic Preserve study area and describes the procedural usage for the Consensus Croup methodology developed by the State of Florida's Growth Management Data Network Coordinating Council. Examples of draft and final Issue Statements are provided as well as examples of how this voluntary process has worked for this project. The use of Data Descriptive Summaries proved to be particularly effective in targeting data for acquisition. Although this is an ongoing project, to date over a million dollars worth of data already produced by public expenditure for other purposes has been transferred. The developmem of data is usually the most expensive phase and the sharing of data represents a compounding of the value of each public dollar spent while reducing the likelihood of needless duplication of data development.
24319397|Runoff water quality from urban land use forms was determined in residential areas of Miami, Florida. Runoff from parking areas contained extremely high levels of bacteria and macronutrients. Pollutional input from rainwater was also monitored and correlated with a general air pollution index. An urban canal system was investigated chemically and ecologically to determine the water quality impact of the stormwater discharge. In most cases the water quality of the canal system was degraded due to stormwater inputs. High levels of all contaminants occurred during periods of high rainfall intensity. In addition an indicator algal index showed the canal section receiving the stormwater discharges to have higher numbers of pollution tolerant algal genera.
24320245|Shells of adult Gopherus polyphemus and Gopherus berlandieri were examined to determine the frequency and distribution of bone anomalies. A broad spectrum of anomalies was present in both species; supernumerary bones in the neural region of the carapace occurred with regularity and had opposite correlations with average size in males and females.
24321596|A suburban south Florida population of the Giant Ameiva (Ameiva ameiva) was monitored during October 2006September 2008. Historically the studied population comprised only one subspecies, A. a. petersi, however, animals of our study site now comprise an intergradation with A. a. ameiva, as well as the two forms. Daily observations provided estimations of seasonal and diel activity patterns of this widely foraging and heliothermic lizard. Individuals were active throughout the year. Males were the most commonly observed segment of the population and most often observed in May and October. This population exhibited a bimodal diel activity pattern of 9001300 and 1500 hrs. Daily activity was longest during mid-summer and was curtailed in the coolest months. This species adheres to the continuous activity observed elsewhere in its geographic range and the bimodal pattern to its activity that typifies other populations of the Giant Ameiva and many other neotropical and temperate teiid lizards. Activity patterns of the Giant Ameiva increase the likelihood of interacting with the two other exotic and single native microteiid with which it could be a competitor or predator. The predictability associated with its activity patterns should be useful when formulating management plans that require estimates of relative abundance.
24320749|This study of borehole logs summarizes some preliminary interpretations of the geologic evolution of the Broward County (Florida) area in terms of the paleo-environmental conditions under which Neogene (later Tertiary, Miocene and Pliocene) and Pleistocene sedimentary deposits formed. The coastal geological framework of Broward County consists predominantly of thick marine shallow-water sequences alternating with thin fresh- and brackish-water deposits. The lithologic components of dominant stratigraphic sections mostly contain carbonate rocks, but clastic deposits are more important in older sequences and in eastern Broward along coastal sectors. This lithologic relationship probably reflects local paleo-environmental evolutionary trends that changed from: (a) offshore marine deposits (silts, clays and mixtures) during the early Miocene, to (b) nearshore carbonates and inner shelf sands during the late Miocene and Pliocene, to (c) subaerial and submerged coastal deposits during the Pleistocene. Changes in environmental conditions and associated sedimentary deposits were conditioned by variations in shoreline position and water depth.
24319521|Ovigerous females with viable eggs which hatched occurred in South Relief Canal, Indian River County, but the population may have been eliminated by the January 1977 cold period.
24319385|Over the past 20 yr, the University of Florida Solar Laboratory has contributed to knowledge now utilized in solar energy applications. The Laboratories now are investigating many principles established in the past in light of state-of-the-art materials and techniques. Research areas include: space heating and cooling with solar energy, refrigeration, solar distillation, solar to electric power conversion and solar cookingto name a few. Work already done is reviewed as well as an overview of present research endeavors and future activities such as the United Nations project for establishing world-wide energy centers.
24321546|This study characterizes the species composition, structure, and seasonal habitat usage of fishes on Atlantic-side beaches in the middle and lower Florida Keys. Fishes and selected environmental variables were monitored at six fixed stations from July 1994 to July 1997 where 47,243 fishes (120 taxa) were collected in 130 beach-seine hauls. The species composition varied seasonally. Correspondence analysis separated the assemblage into three distinct species groups that were significantly correlated to temperature and wind; 1) summer-recruiting species (i.e. lutjanids, haemulonids, and gerreids), 2) winter-recruiting species (i.e. Albula spp., Menticirrhus spp., Mugil spp. and Umbrina coroides) and 3) nearshore pelagics (i.e. engraulids and clupeids) that were present in all months except during the warmest-water periods. Shifts in species composition were driven by seasonal recruitment of early-stage juveniles.
24320399|Reports of sightings of the eastern chipmunk in Florida were solicited from the public and used to locate areas where chipmunks occur. Field observations and collected specimens were used to outline the chipmunk's known distribution, which now includes portions of five northwestern Florida counties (Escambia, Santa Rosa, Okaloosa, Walton, and Holmes) and the watersheds of the Escambia, Blackwater, Yellow, and Choctawhatchee rivers. The species may have been present here since the Pleistocene, but the historical range in Florida is not known. Chipmunks in Florida are associated with hardwood or mixed hardwood-pine (Pinus spp.) forests, but they appear to be unevenly distributed within their range. Because the size of the population in Florida is unknown and the range is small, the chipmunk's current legal status as a Species of Special Concern should be retained.
24321595|A small specimen of the nine-rayed Luidia senegalensis found in Tampa Bay has five long rays and four short rays, one of which is in each of four contiguous interradii. Based on number and length of rays, L. senegalensis shows pentaradial symmetry at metamorphosis, bilateral symmetry in small individuals and nonaradial symmetry in large individuals.
24321132|We made this study with the objective of establishing parameters which could be used to determine minimum Suwannee River flows at which significant damage would occur to the environment. Significant damage is defined as that level of degradation of the environment beyond which the system will not be able to return to its former healthy state. We inventoried plant species distribution in the marsh, determined some characteristics of the soils, and measured water salinity. We found many more species of plants in the marshes of the Suwannee delta than is common in tidal marshes distant from fresh water. Some of these plants are highly salt tolerant such as Distichlis spicata (L.) Greene (saltgrass) and Juncus roemerianus Scheele (needlerush). Some have less salt tolerance i.e. Sagittaria lancifolia L. (arrowhead) and Scirpus americanus Pers. (three-square). The soils are high organic mineral soils or organic soils (> 30% organic matter), anoxic, and contain high amounts of sulfur. Soil salinity, measured by electrical conductivity (EC) is higher near the Gulf and decreases as one goes upriver. There is little significant correlation between soil EC and the distribution of most plants. Although saltgrass and needlerush are very common in the areas of highest EC, the generally low salinity levels permit the growth of a variety of plants. Another phenomenon resulting in erratic distribution of plants is wrack, plant debris deposited by storms over existing vegetation, resulting in the death of the original plants and the invasion or expansion by opportunistic species. Low rainfall and low river flow in June, 2000 resulted in an increase in soil water EC of l7% to l42% and damage to several plant species in the Delta.
24321000|Movements and reproduction were studied in a population of eastern narrowmouth toads, Gastrophryne carolinensis, in south-central Florida. Nearly all adult movements occurred in association with the presence of gravid females (MaySeptember) which closely overlapped the nocturnal calling season (MayOctober). Seasonal movements related to reproduction occurred when monthly volume of rainfall was at least 10.8 cm and mean thermal minima and maxima were 16.2 C and 34.4 C, respectively, in 1994. Nightly values of rainfall and temperature associated with movements corroborated the seasonal restrictions within which reproductive activity in G. carolinensis occurred. Breeding season records from other locations exhibit an abrupt latitudinal shift to a highly restricted breeding season in the northernmost populations, which correlated with thermal thresholds observed in this study. Therefore, for G. carolinensis, climatic constraints dictate its breeding season and ultimately determine the northern limit of its geographic range.
24319760|The incidence of adult-onset diabetes has increased dramatically since the 1950s among the Florida Seminole Indians. Four months were spent at the Brighton Reservation identifying economic, social and cultural factors which may: 1) influence dietary behavior and the incidence of obesity and diabetes, and 2) account for the inability of health care personnel to induce dietary modification and weight loss. Suggestions are made as to how changes in dietary behavior and weight loss might be achieved.
24319847|The mountain mullet (Agonostomus monticola) is a rare component of the Florida ichthyofauna. Until recently, records for the southern half of the peninsula were nearly nonexistent. We document and summarize the range, size distribution, and habitat occurrence of the mountain mullet in southern Florida. Florida populations are characterized by low numbers of small individuals that are probably recruited from the West Indies via surface ocean currents. Its rarity in southern Florida seems due to the absence of suitable freshwater stream habitats. Mountain mullet persistently occur in southern Florida in an artifically maintained stream with access to salt water. We collected 5 mountain mullet from this population, including the largest documented United States specimen. We also observed additional adult-sized mullet there. Based on current understanding of the life history of A. monticola, we discuss the possibility that Parrot Jungle may hold the first breeding population for the United States.
24320226|In a sample of registered voters, we found strong support for a religious explanation of creation and for teaching those views in schools. Creationists tend to be of lower social status and have less exposure to science information and education.
24321042|During recent surveys between March and August 2002, we found established populations of the Madagascar giant day gecko (Phelsuma madagascariensis grandis) in the Florida Keys, Monroe County. We recorded 29 individuals on Little Torch Key and three individuals on Grassy Key. Additional records were obtained from Grassy Key, Big Pine Key, and Plantation Key. Both genders and all size classes were recorded on each island illustrating that this species is presently established as an element of Florida's introduced herpetofauna. Population monitoring, documentation of ecological impacts on Florida's native flora and fauna, and/or eradication efforts should be conducted.
24322135|This paper describes a methodology for estimating pesticide hazards in surface water by Water Body ID (WBID). Southwest Florida was selected as the area of interest. The methodology considers agriculture (citrus and row crops), mosquito management, lawn maintenance, and golf course maintenance. For each pesticide, physical chemical properties are used to predict transport and fate in surface water and this is combined with acute toxicity data on fish, aquatic invertebrates, insects, and birds. This together with the quantity of each pesticide used by WBID helps to estimate the relative pesticide hazards for each WBID. Row crops contribute the greatest hazard with tomatoes and bell peppers leading the list followed by citrus, lawn maintenance, mosquito management and finally golf course maintenance. The most hazardous pesticides were: the fumigants methyl bromide and chloropicrin followed by oxadiazon (lawn herbicide), copper hydroxide (agricultural fungicide), permethrin (lawn insecticide), bromacil (lawn herbicide), mancozeb (lawn fungicide), atrazine (lawn herbicide), diuron (agricultural herbicide), chlorothalonil (agricultural and lawn fungicide), and glyphosate (agricultural herbicide). The methodology predicted that the most affected WBIDs lie in the agricultural areas of Collier and Hendry Counties.
24319646|Bird remains from prehistoric sites may offer both significant archaeological information on the ecological conditions, types of habitats exploited, and settlement patterning at the time of human occupation, and zoological data regarding the past distribution of certain species of avifauna. The analysis of such remains from 2 South Florida middens, Fort Center in Glades County, and Boca Weir in Palm Beach County, provides evidence for possible year-round habitation at the former site and a winter settlement at the latter site. Furthermore, the recovery of a great auk, razor-billed auk, and great black-backed gull, may indicate a period of cooler climate in Florida at approximately A.D. 1000.
24321552|During a yearlong ichthyoplankton survey conducted in the Florida Current, a single ocean sunfish, Mola mola, was found from the 284 samples and 1,454 identified specimens. This sunfish larva is one of only 17 on record from the Gulf of Mexico and northwest Atlantic.
24320086|The Florida spiny lobster fishery is faced with declining catch rates resulting from increasing fishing pressure by commercial and recreational fishermen. Conflicts between users have developed and economic returns, at least to the commercial fishery, are not optimal. Management action is suggested. Phase 1 of a management program should allocate the resource in an effective manner between recreational and commercial interests, adopt uniform interstate regulations to protect the resource, and augment the collection of fishery statistics for both recreational and commercial harvests. Phase 2 of the program should establish a management scheme to obtain the optimum sustainable yield.
24321181|The Kennedy Space Center (KSC) is one of the largest areas of public land in eastern Florida. Here, we report the results of a 25-year assessment of the herpetofauna of the KSC, with specific emphasis on long-term changes in populations. Exclusive of marine turtles, we found 69 species of amphibians and reptiles. With one exception, all species found during earlier surveys in the 1970s were still present 25 years later and an additional 14 species were identified. There were no significant changes in the total number of snakes found on a road survey route, but there were significant changes in the relative species composition among snake species, especially for cottonmouths and Florida green water snakes. In addition, diamondback terrapin populations declined markedly, and introduced diseases and habitat alterations may be a threat to other species.
24321404|The fish assemblage in the Everglades Nutrient Removal Project (ENRP), a 1,544 ha constructed freshwater wetland built for Everglades restoration, is compared to the freshwater fish assemblages of other Florida wetlands. The ENRP supported 28 fish species in 16 families; five of these species were exotics. Average total density (76.9 fishes m-2) and biomass (1.4 g dry weight m-2) of fishes in the ENRP were elevated relative to nearby oligotrophic marshes. Numerically dominant fishes were small-bodied species belonging to the families Cyprinodontidae, Fundulidae and Poeciliidae. Largebodied species were most abundant in deep-water canals, whereas small-bodied fishes were most abundant in densely vegetated habitats. The ENRP fish assemblage was most similar to the adjacent Water Conservation Area 1 (Jaccard similarity coefficient = 0.700). Community similarity of the ENRP with the other Florida wetlands was inversely proportional to their distance from the ENRP. Null model analyses suggested that the pattern of species co-occurrence among wetlands was random and not structured by competition or other factors. Species richness was highly correlated with family richness and both varied as power functions of wetland surface area. The ENRP provided quality aquatic habitat and the diversity of its fish assemblage was comparable to fish assemblages of other Florida wetlands.
24319446|An Air Force program on the Eglin Air Force Base Reservation, Florida, of testing spray equipment designed to apply herbicides and other biologically active materials by aerial means, has given rise to the possibility that the testing program might affect the biota outside the test area. Observations made as part of the present project show that changes have been induced in the vascular flora, but that they are not extensive in terms of distance from the test area, duration, or magnitude. No species can be demonstrated to be reduced in numbers near the test area, although certain weedy species can be shown to increase in numbers near the area following the temporary defoliation of the forest canopy.
24319786|The utilization of power by crewleaders in the control, manipulation, and exploitation of agricultural laborers was observed for 14 mo in 6 south Florida counties. The more successful crewleaders employed a multi-dimensional power base with only a partial reliance upon the use of coercive power to achieve their goals. This finding is in contrast to most previous studies which stressed coercive power as the primary, and sometimes exclusive, element in the power base foundation of crewleaders.
24321013|Conservation institutions worldwide such as the Royal Botanical Gardens at Kew (U.K.) have frequently used in vitro propagation (micropropagation) as a valuable tool to support the conservation of some threatened and endangered species. Although many of the endemic species of Florida's scrub ecosystem are extremely rare, they have not been widely researched using tissue culture techniques. In this paper, the amenability of Conradina etonia, an endangered scrub mint species, to in vitro growth and propagation was investigated using shoot tips. Callus formed and grew rapidly in the presence of both cytokinins and auxins. Rhizogenesis from callus occurred in both the presence and absence of growth regulators. Induction of axillary shoots from the main explant stem occurred on media containing 3.0 mg/ L 6-[,-dimethylallylamino]purine + 0.3 mg/L indole-3-acetic acid. When excised and placed on fresh media, these shoots produced three to four adventitious shoots each. Subculturing the adventitious shoots onto media devoid of growth regulators resulted in stem elongation, leaf production, and occasionally root formation. The results suggest that micropropagation may be an option for the propagation of this species.
24321427|The analysis of serum chemistries is becoming a vital diagnostic tool for assessing the health of free-ranging birds of prey. The serum chemistries of 21 free-ranging swallow-tailed kites, Elanoides forficatus, nestlings were measured in 1995 and 2003 in several regions of Florida, Georgia and South Carolina. One hematological value (PCV) and twenty-four serum values were measured to establish normal baseline parameters for the kites. Microbial health assessment applications in wildlife monitoring are in the infancy stage. Microbial organisms were identified from cloacal and choanal swabs. Escherichia coli (88%), Enterobacter cloacae and Klebsiella pneumoniae (44%) and Proteus mirabilis (43%) were the predominant microbial organisms.
24320327|References to the toxic dinoflagellate, Gonyaulax monilata Howell, in the Indian and Banana rivers are compiled from published and unpublished sources. The inability of researchers to find motile cells for extended periods indicates that benthic resting cysts or hypnozygotes may be the only source for the seed population.
24320294|An adult male gray fox was radio-instrumented at Archbold Biological Station, Highlands County, on 24 December 1980, and its movements and activity were monitored intermittently until its death from canine parvovirus on 20 February 1981. Maximum home range was 2.69 km2; maximum range length was 2.64 km. The fox was most active in early morning and late afternoon-evening, and least active during the middle of the day. Natural habitats were preferred to man-modified areas.
24322138|A stressor response model in the form of a habitat suitability index was created for blue crab to quantify impacts of alternative management actions and to assist managers in policy decisions. The model simulates system response by examining impact of freshwater input into southwest Florida estuaries and is being used to help bring together research and monitoring components within southwest Florida ecosystems as part of the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan. The model uses both a larval-component index and spawning female component index and has been incorporated into a geographic information system to portray responses spatially and temporally to facilitate policy decisions. This habitat suitability stressor response model can be applied at other locations using information from the literature, expert knowledge and available local field data and can be easily modified or refined as additional data becomes available. This study examines four hydrological scenarios: a target flow, 2000 base, and 2050 with and without Comprehensive Everglades Restoration, on the habitat suitability of the estuary for blue crabs. The model indicates that preferred flow frequency distribution and the future conditions with Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan have higher habitat suitability values than existing or future without Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan conditions.
24321139|Over 30 million tons of phosphogypsum (PG) are produced annually in Florida as a by-product of the production of phosphoric acid and derivatives. A previous study examined the environmental impacts of creating borrow pits to obtain fill for road building versus using phosphogypsum as a source of road fill. This study describes a survey that was conducted of approximately 50 qualified persons to identify as many issues and concerns as possible relative to this possible application.
24321218|Sphaeroma terebrans Bate is a widespread estuarine, wood-boring isopod found in red mangrove (Rhizophora mangle) forests of tropical and subtropical estuarine waters. Because it causes extensive damage to man-made structures in marine coastal zones and is resistant to common methods of wood preservation, it is important to understand fully how S. terebrans uses the wood into which it bores. Previous studies indicate that S. terebrans is primarily a filter-feeder and does not utilize bored wood as a nutritive substrate. However, laboratory feeding data obtained in this study indicate that juvenile S. terebrans specimens can survive on a diet of pure cellulose significantly longer than individuals given no food. In addition, enzyme assays show that digestive caeca homogenates from S. terebrans have active cellulose-digesting enzymes. Furthermore, SEM and TEM studies of this organism indicate that cellulose-like material is present in the hindgut of these organisms. These data taken collectively indicate that S. terebrans has the ability to use the wood as a food source.
24321149|Although many aspects concerning the nutrient requirements of insectivores are poorly understood, it is important to ascertain the nutrient composition of a wide range of invertebrate prey species so that more informed decisions can be made with respect to the feeding regimes used to maintain insectivores in captivity. In addition, this information is essential for a more comprehensive understanding of the diet composition and optimal foraging decisions of insectivores under natural conditions. In this study I report on the nutrient composition (water content, ash, crude fat, total nitrogen, minerals and trace elements, and fat-soluble vitamins) of 16 species of arachnids comprising 4 orders and 20 species of insects comprising 9 orders. Water content ranged from 5871%. Crude fat content (as % dry matter, DM) ranged from 1172%, with typically higher values observed for larval stages of insects as compared to adults. Total nitrogen, neutral detergent fiber, and ash ranged from 310% DM, 1019%, and 29%, respectively. The insects and arachnids sampled in this study met the dietary requirements of insectivores with respect to minerals and trace elements including Mg, P, Ca, Cu, Fe, Mn and Zn. Concentrations of vitamins E and A were quite variable among the taxa. In spiders, vitamin E content ranged from 43.2201.2 IU/kg; vitamin A levels ranged from 144.5426.3 IU/kg. Scorpions and whipscorpions had significantly lower levels of vitamin E. In insects, vitamin E levels ranged from 17.7512.5 IU/kg; vitamin A levels ranged from 11.4803.2 IU/kg. The values recorded for these fat-soluble vitamins fell below the daily requirements that are known for some insectivores.
24321138|Adults of the subtropical cockroach Eurycotis fioridana emit a defensive chemical spray from their abdomens consisting primarily of (E)-2-hexenaI. Nymphs are similar in size to the adults, but lack the chemical defense. The ability of the defensive spray to repel predators has received relatively little study. We conducted feeding trials with two species of mice, Peromyscus gossypinus and P. polionotus, that are abundant in the natural habitats that support Eurycotis in central Florida, and potentially important predators on Eurycotis. We offered Eurycotis nymphs and adults to captive mice and recorded compared handling times among trials. Both species of mice were adept at handling nymphs but were visibly distressed when exposed to (E)-2-hexenal. Peromyscus polionotus proved largely unable to handle adult Eurycotis because of the inability of this mouse to deal with the chemical defense. In contrast, P. gossypinus dealt well with adult Eurycotis by thrusting the roach's abdomen into the substrate and feeding from the head end to avoid exposure to the chemical defense. We conclude that the chemical defense of Eurycotis is an effective deterrent to small mammal predators, but that at least some individuals of P. gossypinus adopt a behavior to neutralize that defense.
24319973|Legal issues relating to groundwater contamination in Florida are rapidly changing. The regulators responsible for protecting groundwater are increasingly more aggressive as scientific technique reveals the heretofore unknown scope of contamination caused by hazardous waste, hazardous substances, petroleum products, and pesticides. The states including Florida and private individuals recently have asserted common law remedies such as negligence, nuisance, trespass, and indemnification to remedy groundwater contamination. Florida law is undergoing rapid metamorphosis and existing statutory and common law theories are being reevaluated. Congress and the Florida Legislature should reexamine the legal issues and prepare new more meaningful remedies to groundwater contamination in Florida.
24321228|Typically total lead has been taken as a measure of the toxicity of lead in a sample, whereas a direct measurement of toxicity would seem to be a more meaningful measure. This study summarizes analysis of lead using a Microtox 500 toxicity analyzer. The instrument examines the effect of samples on the luminescent bacterium Vibrio fischeri. We compared the effect of standard solutions of aqueous lead nitrate with soil samples containing known amounts of lead nitrate. The LD50 for soluble lead was about 2 ppm. There was no notable difference between a control sample (lead-free soil) and high-organic soil containing about 1000 ppm lead. The LD50 for both samples was about 50,000 ppm. The latter value is likely a function of the nature of the soil type and the organic content, but it does demonstrate that high-organic soil is capable of absorbing soluble lead. It also demonstrates the need for a specific measurement of toxicity as a guide to bioavailability and bioaccumulation.
24321021|A critical component of ecosystem restoration is the ability to evaluate restoration success. Fishes have been identified as useful indicators of biotic integrity in flowing ecosystems, because they integrate watershed conditions at relevant spatial and temporal scales. In this paper we evaluated the usefulness of characteristics of individual fish (allometric relationships and growth rates) as potential metrics for use in the analysis of ecosystem enhancement and/or restoration projects. We evaluated the effects of ecosystem enhancement on two components of individual fitness of largemouth bass, bluegill and redear sunfish (family Centrarchidae): (1) growth exponent bthe slope of log-linear relationship of wet mass on standard length and (2) growth rates within two control pools and one enhanced pool of the channelized Kissimmee River ecosystem, central Florida, USA. Persistence of low dissolved oxygen in the enhanced pool and broad performance curves of the three species produced limited levels of response. Nonetheless, our analyses indicate allometric W-SL relationships and growth rates of fishes, two quick and inexpensive measures, potentially integrate ecosystem enhancement effects, and therefore warrant further research as metrics for evaluation of ecosystem enhancement and restoration.
24319516|Stratigraphic placement of the Tamiami FormationHawthorn Formation contact has been arbitrary in subsurface investigations in southwest Florida. This contact is properly positioned beneath a dark colored carbonate mud unit, which contains large concentrations of detrital phosphorite, quartz sand, and various clay minerals. The mud unit, known informally as the Fort Myers clay member of the Tamiami Formation, covers the Hawthorn Formation in nearly all of southwest Florida. The formational contact is distinctive in western Lee and Charlotte Counties, where it is a stratigraphic disconformity, and becomes less distinctive to the south and east, where deposition has been continuous and no break in the stratigraphic record is evident.
24320595|Commercial tomato producers were surveyed throughout the state of Florida to determine the degree to which they have adopted production practices which minimize undesirable environmental impacts. The survey focused on water, pest, and nutrient management practices. Environmentally sound production practices and changes in production practices that have occurred over the past decade are described. We examine the relationships between scale of production (size of production unit) and adoption of recommended practices and examine the degree to which scale serves as a predictor of adoption. The debate over the degree to which farmers are moving toward more environmentally sound systems of agricultural production is an important one. The debate is particularly important in Florida. Much of our agriculture is large scale and input intensive. Further, many major production areas, particularly for vegetable crops, occupy regions of the state with particularly sensitive natural ecosystems. The on-going controversy over natural resource use in the Everglades Agricultural Area provides a good example. Special care must be taken by growers in the EAA to prevent deterioration of the natural Everglades ecosystem. Excessive concentrations of nutrients or pesticides in the water system, for example, are issues of major concern.
24320622|Rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) were translocated to Key Lois in 1973 and to Raccoon Key in 1976. All animals captured on the two islands are routinely screened for whipworm eggs. We reviewed the results of 2,216 fecal samples analyzed using Sheather's sugar flotation technique and noted the presence or absence of ova and the sex of the monkey from whom the sample was taken. Ova were found more than twice as often in samples from Key Lois than from Raccoon Key. We also found a sex difference; the infection rate was 36% (N=399) for males and 29% (N=323) for females. These results may be due in part to differences in population density and microhabitat between the two islands.
24321475|The freshwater sponge Trochospongilla leidii was collected from a logging channel adjoining the St. Johns River in Volusia County, Florida. Determination of the species was supported by scanning electron micrographs of diagnostic traits of the gemmule, a minute mass of cells encapsulated by a layer of siliceous spicules (gemmoscleres) and acting as the asexually reproductive body in the Spongillidae.
24320784|Three species of the the cladoceran genus Simocephalus from Florida were reared on a nonliving nutritive medium, and their per capita rates of increase, r, were determined. The per capita rates found (0.668 in S. exspinosus, 0.651 in S. serrulatus, and 0.622 in S. vetulus) are similar to those recorded for cladocerans in general or Simocephalus species in particular reared on a diet of algae, suggesting that this nutritive medium is adequate for culturing cladocerans.
24321721|Beavers from Florida and Georgia were examined for ectoparasitic mites of the genus Schizocarpus (Acari: Chirodiscidae). Seven of 17 Schizocarpus species known previously from the North American beavers were recorded: S. alascensis Fain et Whitaker, 1988, S. posticus Fain et Whitaker, 1988, and S. spinifer Fain, Whitaker et Smith, 1984 from Georgia; S. inversus Fain, Whitaker et Jones, 1984, S. paramingaudi Fain et Whitaker, 1988, and S. reductus Fain et Whitaker, 1988 from Florida. Only one species, S. mingaudi Trouessart, 1896 was recorded from beavers in both states. The male hysterosoma of S. spinifer is described and figured for the first time.
24320324|The Indian River system extends from Ponce de Leon Inlet to St. Lucie Inlet and drains an increasingly populated watershed. The Future of the Indian River system Steering Committee was formed in April 1981 by representatives of 4 Florida scientific institutions to promote the wise utilization and optimum productivity of the Indian River system. This system is a significant economic, scientific, educational, recreational, and aesthetic resource. The FIRST Steering Committee will form a permanent organization to act as a clearing house for information on the Indian River system and to sponsor annual symposia. Symposia will alternate between research needs, and potential solutions will be discussed and referred to decision makers. The Indian River System Information Symposium is the first of the research meetings.
24321438|New locality records are presented for two species of insects and two species of millipedes collected in the Florida Keys, Monroe County: Diachlorus ferrugatus, Empicoris subparallelus, Anadenobolus monilicornis, and Trigoniulus corallinus. St. Andrew's stainer, Dysdercus andreae (Hemiptera: Pyrrhocoridae), was observed feeding on a dead tropical house gecko.
24320184|In a study on the Archbold Biological Station in southcentral Florida, body weight and carapace and plastron measurements of 37 gopher tortoises were strongly correlated (r = 0.77 to 0.88) with widths of their burrows at three depths (20, 50, 70 cm). There were no significant differences (P>0.05) between r values in any of the comparisons. Correlation coefficients between carapace length and burrow width in this and two previous studies in northern Florida were not significantly different, providing further evidence that tortoise size estimates based on burrow width are comparable across habitats and geographic locations.
24321723|Closure of the Suwannee Strait is a recognized vicariance event influencing the genetic divergence of populations of freshwater fauna on either side of the Atlantic/Gulf drainage divide. The macrophyte Hymenocallis coronaria also exhibits this divergence pattern, and a molecular clock analysis dates the divergence of populations to 8.6 million years ago (95% confidence interval 9.3 to 7.9 MYA), a divergence date consistent with the closure of the Suwannee Strait. This divergence pattern, along with other local scale genetic patterns, suggests a potential role of ichthyochory in the dispersal and migration of H. coronaria. We also discuss preliminary results from limited controlled ichthyochory experiments involving Ictalurus punctatus.
24320056|Hydrilla verticillata and the water in which it grew were analyzed from a lake and a ditch over 12 mo. Hydrilla from the ditch, compared to that from the lake had more Ca (2.6), Fe (3), Na (1.8), similar amounts of P, Mg, Cr, and less Zn (.8), K (.66), Cu (.07), Mn (.25). Ditch compared to lake water had more Ca (5), Fe (9), Na (3), P (10), Mg (4), Zn (4), Cu (1.6), and similar amounts of Cr, K, Mn.
24321226|We used Geographic Information Systems (GIS) as an assessment tool to predict the amount and distribution of available habitat for the Neotoma floridana smalli (Key Largo woodrat) and the Peromyscus gossypinus allapaticola (Key Largo cotton mouse) on North Key Largo, Florida. Three times as many cotton mice were live trapped in the hammock than were woodrats. None of the habitat variables used in the analyses; hardwood hammock age class, fragment size, runway density and presence of exotic vegetation, were significantly associated with Key Largo woodrat abundance estimates. Key Largo cotton mouse abundance was highest in medium-old hammocks, smaller fragments, hammocks with high runway densities and in hammocks where the exotic vegetation was absent. A stepwise multiple regression analysis revealed that hammock age class and fragment size explained most of the variation in cotton mice abundance. ArcView's Spatial Analyst GIS was used to analyze the stepwise multiple regression equations of the four habitat variables. The output was a map of the habitat which predicted areas of high (greater than 30) and low (less than 30) cotton mice abundance.
24321044|Studies were conducted to assess the spatial learning ability of the shrews, Sorex palustris and Blarina carolinensis. Spatial navigation was assessed in S. palustris using the Morris apparatus whereby subjects were required to locate a visible or invisible escape platform in a tank containing water made opaque by the addition of a non-toxic white dye. Adult males learned to locate a platform that they could not see, hear, or smell provided it remained in a fixed spatial location relative to distal room cues. Learning resulted in a significant decrease in the amount of time required to locate the platform (escape latency), as well as a reduction in the distance taken to locate it (path length), over a 20-trial test period lasting 5 days. Learning occurred rapidly except for a test group in which the platform was below the water surface and whose position was randomly changed from trial to trial. Transfer tests revealed that a spatial location search strategy was utilized by those animals for whom the platform was invisible but in a fixed location. Spatial learning ability was evaluated in B. carolinensis using a complex maze. The number of blind alley errors decreased significantly over a 10-day training period, from a mean of 72.4  13.8 SD on day 1, to 2.5  0.2 errors on day 10. Similarly, the time required to traverse the maze decreased significantly from 483.2  47.9 sec on day 1 to 109.4  11.9 sec on day 10. This represents the first demonstration of spatial learning ability in these soricids. The data are discussed in relation to spatial learning studies conducted on the Norway rat, and the adaptive significance of spatial learning to foraging animals is addressed.
24320618|The effects of fog on predawn water potential of two scrub oak individuals (Quercus chapmanii Sarg., Q. myrtifolia Willd.) were studied on the Lake Wales Ridge of central Florida during two winter dry seasons. Daily changes in water potential were correlated with rain, fog indices, and moisture sensor weights. Rainfall during the two dry seasons was slightly below normal, and rainfall events elevated predawn water potential on the following morning, but not thereafter. On days without rain, the presence of fog significantly increased predawn water potentials in both species, without affecting soil moisture. The effect of a foggy morning was similar to that of an average rain. Predawn water potentials on the second and later days subsequent to fog were unaffected by fog. The day to day pattern of water potential gain and the lack of fog effects on soil moisture suggest that plants may obtain fog water through foliar uptake. The small net difference between water potential increases on mornings with heavy fog and decreases on fogless mornings (mean differences about 0.1 MPa) suggests that the ecological effects of individual fog events are minor. However, the accumulation of drought stress relief during weeks of fog could be important, especially during extreme droughts, if low predawn water potentials lead to midday stonmtal closure.
24320477|An exotic crane (Grus antigone) was observed in Pasco County foraging with native sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis pratensis). This is the first record of this presumably escaped exotic bird in central Florida.
24320687|The compatibility between monoecious pollen donors and dioecious egg donors was evaluated in an international hydrilla [Hydrilla verticillata (L.F.) Royle] germplasm collection. Seed were produced in 46 of the 48 crosses between four dioecious pistillate plants and pollen donors from twelve monoecious plants. Viable progeny resulted from 30 of the crosses. Seed numbers varied from 4076 in the cross between the dioecious egg donor from Jaipur, India and the monoecious pollen donor from Pangalengan, Java to none in two of the crosses. Seed germination varied from 0% to 55%. There was considerable variability in the fitness of the progeny. The results of this study confirm the observations of an earlier study: that pollen from monoecious donors is viable and capable of interaction with dioecious egg donors to produce viable progeny.
24321670|Fibropapillomatosis (FP) is a tumor disease that is reported in the hard shelled sea turtle species. The frequency of FP, however, is much higher in green turtles (Chelonia mydas) than in any other species. The distribution of this mysterious disease is worldwide, but the etiology is still not understood. We captured 310, 256 and 82 juvenile green turtles by large mesh tangle nets in the Indian River Lagoon (Lagoon), the nearshore reef (Ocean) and the Trident submarine Basin (Port) on the East coast of Florida in 1998 and 1999. FP prevalence at the Lagoon, Ocean and Port study sites were 61.6, 14.8 and 0% respectively. All tumors were examined and measured, and we assigned overall severity of FP (tumor score 03) to all turtles that were captured in the three study sites, based on size, number and location of external FP tumors. The range of tumor size is from less than 1 cm to more than 10 cm in length. The number of tumors varies from 1 to as many as 70 among individuals in the Lagoon. Twenty-two of 25 recaptured turtles showed regression of FP tumors by comparison and examination of initial and recapture photographs. The explanation of different FP prevalence in two physically similar sites, the Port and the Ocean, is unknown. One difference between the Port and the Ocean sites is that the Ocean is located closer to the inlets that connect the open ocean to the Indian River Lagoon, where FP prevalence is consistently higher.
24320621|The Key tree-cactus, Cereus robinii (Lemaire) L. Benson, known from Cuba and the Florida Keys, is classified as endangered. Populations of the cactus on Upper Matecumbe, Long, and Big Pine Keys, Florida, were subjected to mosquito insecticide (naled) spraying that reached environmental concentrations of up to 0.017 g per cm2. Observations of pollinators, sticky trapping, bagging buds to exclude pollinators, germination of seed, and sampling of naled residues were performed on the Big Pine Key population. Blooms, observed year-round, were sparse and opened for one night, and had a garlic-like odor suggestive of bat pollination. No pollinators were observed, and bagged and non-bagged (open pollinated) blooms in naled-sprayed hammocks set fruit and produced viable seed. Vegetative propagation of windthrows and limb buds of the tree-cactus and one natural seedling were observed. C. pentagonus (Linnaeus) Haworth and C. gracilis var. simpsonii (Small) L. Benson from the same area also produced seed in bagged and non-bagged treatments.
24319774|Studies initiated by the Victim Assistance for Older Adults Program (VAP) confirm findings of federally-conducted surveys taken in major metropolitan areas that elderly persons (aged 55 + ) are more fearful of crime than any other age-group, although they are victimized least in proportion to population size. The VAP provides short-term crisis intervention, support and referral services, victim advocacy, and crime prevention information to all elderly victims of Part I crimes in Hillsborough County, Florida. The program, which began in January 1978, has aided more than 2,500 victims to-date. Still to be investigated are VAP findings that suggest anxiety accompanies fear, especially among victims who have been made aware of preventive measures that could have been taken to avoid the crime and its consequences.
24321093|We report on the eradication of a reproducing population of nonindigenous convict cichlids, Cichlasoma nigrofasciatum (Cichlidae), from a closed basin on the University of Florida (UF) campus in Gainesville, Alachua County, Florida, in December 2001. The population had persisted for three or more years despite cold winter air temperatures owing to the thermal refuge afforded by a constant influx of warm water from UF cooling systems. A brief shutdown of the water flow allowed the use of rotenone to renovate the pond. Over 1000 convict cichlids were removed and data were collected from representative specimens. Relations of standard length, weight, and body depth to total length were estimated. Plant material dominated the stomach contents in frequency of occurrence, followed by unidentified organic material and amphipods. However, fish and plant material made up the greatest volume of stomach contents. Although it was winter, three of 14 females examined had apparently ripe eggs and there were nests and brood pits within the pond. Two other nonindigenous fish species were foundtwo black pacus, Colossoma macropomum (Characidae), and an oscar, Astronotus ocellatus (Cichlidae). Also collected were native yellow bullhead, Ameiurus natalis (Ictaluridae), eastern mosquitofish, Gambusia holbrooki (Poeciliidae), and sailfin molly, Poecilia latipinna (Poeciliidae).
24320998|Kemp's ridley is one of the world's most endangered vertebrates. The primary nesting site of the species is Rancho Nuevo, Tamaulipas, Mexico; secondary nesting beaches are located near Rancho Nuevo. Isolated nesting has occurred at various other locations within the Gulf of Mexico, and more recently on the eastern coast of the United States. We report the first confirmed nesting of a Kemp's ridley on the eastern coast of Florida (two nests in Volusia Co.) and an additional nesting on Florida's west coast (Lee Co.). Genetic analysis showed that hatchlings from one of the Volusia Co. nests were pure L. kempi and not hybrids. Including the nests reported here, five L. kempi nests, involving three individual turtles, have been confirmed on Florida's beaches thus far. There is no evidence that these individuals were part of the Kemp's ridley headstart program, although that possibility cannot be excluded.
24321411|Parasitoids are important biological control agents for environmentally friendly insect management programs. However, few parasitoids have been examined on the genomic level, with most sequences being used only as indicator genetic markers. We propose that as more Ribosomal Protein, RP, sequences become available in the public database, their use in studies of molecular phylogenetics and diagnostics will proportionately increase. Putative cytoplasmic RP gene sequences were therefore selected as a subset from a cDNA library of 7,762 mRNA sequences, constructed from adults of the aphid parasitoid, Lysiphlebus testaceipes (Cresson). Over 100 novel RP cDNAs from L. testaceipes were cloned, sequenced, and identified. All sequences were deposited in the GenBank database under the consecutive accession numbers EH009595-EH017357, with the RP sequences under AY961484-AY961584 and DQ062217-DQ062237. Isoforms and allelic forms of some proteins are represented.
24319875|The skipper Synapte malitiosa is reported for the first time from the Antillean island of Hispaniola. The subspecific status of the Hispaniolan population remains uncertain. Data are presented on collecting sites, temperature, and times of days of collections, as well as behavior of the skippers.
24321072|Schistocerca ceratiola Hubbell and Walker, the rosemary grasshopper, was collected from a Ceratiola ericoides Michx plant community on a sand ridge in Levy County, northern Florida where its presence has been suspected for many years. The grasshopper's behavior and distribution on the unique ridges of the Florida peninsula are discussed.
24321252|Infection with upper respiratory tract disease (URTD) has been linked to population declines of tortoises. Here we test whether gopher tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus) at Archbold Biological Station (ABS), a long-protected area in south-centraI Florida, have been exposed to, or are currently infected with Mycoplasma agassizii, a causal agent of URTD. We examined all gopher tortoises encountered for clinical signs of URTD. In addition, we collected blood (n = 11) and nasal samples (n = 10) from tortoises found throughout ABS. We used PCR-based tests of nasal samples to determine if gopher tortoises are currently infected with M. agassizii and ELISAs for blood samples to test if exposure to this mycoplasmid has taken place. No tortoise at ABS showed any clinical signs of URTD. Furthermore, all blood samples were seronegative, indicating that no tortoise had developed a detectable immune response to M. agassizii. All nasal lavages were also negative for the presence of M. agassizii. Thus, gopher tortoises at ABS have not been exposed to this mycoplasmid. Comparisons of characteristics between populations with varying levels of URTD prevalence, including sites such as ABS without any cases of infection, will help decipher the role that this disease plays in population declines of gopher tortoises.
24320338|Effects of water depth, water temperature, light intensity, epiphyte coverage, detrital accumulation and sediment resuspension and shifting on seagrass ecology in the Indian River Lagoon system were studied from April 1977 through June 1979. Seagrass beds containing Halophila engelmannii, Halodule wrightii and Syringodium filiforme located between Cocoa and Grant, Florida, were chosen as sampling sites. Increases in vegetative growth for all 3 seagrasses occurred in spring and to a lesser extent in fall months. Water temperatures ranged between 22 and 30C. Decreased detrital accumulation, sediment resuspension and shifting, and water depth, increased light transmission and intensities at the seagrass blade level, and reduced epiphytic coverage (less than 300 mg epiphytes/gm blade) were observed during spring. Overall epiphyte levels (expressed as seasonal averages) were 850, 615 and 210 mg epiphytes/gm blade for Syringodium, Halodule and Halophila, respectively. Net photosynthetic rates were highest during spring and fall, 1185, 1090 and 670 g C fixed/mg Chl-hr. Periods of decreased vegetative growth (in summer and winter months) were accompanied by increased blade necrosis, rhizome and/or blade detachment, more dense epiphyte coverage (in excess of 100 mg epiphytes/gm blade) and reduced photosynthetic rates. Decreased light intensities at blade level, sub-optimal temperatures (< 20C in winter and > 30C in summer), and extensive sediment shifting and detrital accumulation were observed at these times.
24321253|Surveillance for gastrointestinal parasites among Mayan Indians was conducted in San Antonio Palopo, Santa Catarina Palopo, Santa Cruz Laguna and Jaibalito, four villages around Lake Atitlan, Guatemala. In January and June 2001, 234 patients with gastrointestinal symptoms of abdominal pain were identified and their stools examined for parasites. Feces were collected from patients and zinc sulfate flotation was performed on each specimen. Both helminth and protozoan parasites were detected in varying rates from people in the different villages. Ascaris lumbricoides was the most frequent helminth infection detected followed by Trichuris trichiura and Hymenolepis nana. Entamoeba histolytica/dispar was the most common protozoan infection followed by Giardia duodenalis. Results demonstrated that parasite transmission is largely in children and the prevalence rate of infection is related to the time of year. This identification of the prevalence of parasites in different villages in relation to the current risk factors is suggestive of the type of preventative measures necessary to reduce parasitic infection rates.
24322343|Juvenile reptile activity and behavioral patterns are scant in the literature, especially in long-lived species including turtles and tortoises. To better understand activity patterns, we used automated camera units to record daily activities of hatchling and juvenile gopher tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus). This species concentrates activity around self-excavated burrows, and by placing cameras at burrow entrances we were able to gather activity data on both tortoises and other species using tortoise burrows. Hatchling tortoises spent more than twice as much time outside burrows as juveniles, but on average juveniles emerged from burrows slightly more often than hatchlings. Neither group emerged from burrows daily, and most emergences were during the morning. We also documented the first data on gopher tortoises emerging from burrows at night, when they appear to drink during heavy rainstorms. Mammals and reptiles were the major commensal species. Young tortoises emerge from burrows on a regular basis and spend considerable time outside burrows, although their habitat preferences when out foraging, as well as their small size, may contribute to the paucity of observations on immature gopher tortoises.
24319944|Flooding and desiccation probably caused mortality of eggs of the American Crocodile (Crocodylus acutus) in Everglades National Park. Flooding was subterranean with no sign evident above ground. Apparent desiccation occurred in a year (1981) of abnormally low rainfall. The timing of nesting seems to be rigidly scheduled, with the developmental period bracketed by possibly desiccating and flooding conditions. The success of this strategy is shown by the relatively low rate of embryonic mortality in most years.
24320414|This study examined the coastal response of central Brevard County to rising Holocene sea level as it has been recorded in sediments of Indian River lagoon. The typical Holocene sediment sequence, in ascending order, consists of: (1) depauperate marsh muds, (2) sandy muds and muddy sands that contain a restricted marine fauna, and (3) sands and muddy sands that contain an abundant, more normal marine fauna. This transgressive sequence developed as rising Holocene sea level flooded a Pleistocene topographic depression (paleolagoon). It is often capped by (4) a coarser sand that exhibits a decrease in faunal abundance and diversity. The origin of this sediment type remains problematic. "Muck", a fine-grained, organic-rich sediment, occurs in bathymetric depressions of the lagoon and was not identified at any other stratigraphic position. This observation supports the hypothesis that "muck" is an anthropogenic sediment type. Stratigraphie cross-sections along the axis of the lagoon reveal a concomitant increase in mud and decrease in sand from south to north. This sediment gradient is logically related to the morphology of the present barrier island system. In the northern area, the relatively broad width of the barrier island and its well-developed ridge-and-swale topography may have limited the flux of quartz sand into the lagoon during major storms and hurricanes.
24319407|Small's Acacia, Acacia smallii Isely, is a bushy tree known from northeastern Mexico eastward along the Gulf Coast to Louisiana. It was discovered at Pensacola, Escambia County, Florida, in 1901 and 1903, but has since not been confirmed to exist in Florida. Several populations along the edge of Pensacola Bay were recently discovered to be well established. A key is provided to Florida species of Acacia.
24320997|We radio-tracked one northern yellow bat (Lasiurus intermedius), three Seminole bats (L. seminolus), three evening bats (Nycticeius humeralis), and one eastern pipistrelle (Pipistrellus subflavus) to locate and characterize their tree roosts. The northern yellow bat roosted in Spanish moss (Tillandsia usneoides) in live oaks (Quercus virginiana), located in a oak-hammock community. The Seminole bats roosted in slash pines (Pinus elliottii), loblolly pines (P. taeda), live oaks, and pond pine (P. serotina). Thirty-two of these 34 roost trees were in pine-dominated communities. Evening bats roosted in slash pines, loblolly pines, and live oaks. Thirteen of 14 roost trees were located in loblolly-slash pine communities. The eastern pipistrelle roosted in a community dominated by live oaks. Each eastern pipistrelle roost was located in Spanish moss in understory trees on exposed high-marsh hammocks. Our results support previous studies documenting the tree roosting habits of the northern yellow bat, evening bat, and eastern pipistrelle. We could find no records documenting strong roosting associations of Seminole bats with pines. Our findings suggest that during the period of parturition and lactation, Seminole bats commonly roost in pines.
24319541|The Black Creek Crayfish (Procambarus pictus (Hobbs) ), is endemic to cool, steep-gradient, tannic-stained creeks in the Black Creek drainage in northeast Florida. It appears to be extremely susceptible to human interference, particularly alteration of headwater areas and pollution. Currently, this crayfish is doing well but with additional pressure from urbanization, particularly with its proximity to the Jacksonville metropolitan area, the species might quickly be brought to the brink of extinction. Because of this, we are recommending Procambarus pictus for the Special Concern category, as outlined in the Florida Audubon Society's Inventory of Rare and Endangered Biota of Florida.
24320512|The turtle community of Rainbow Run, Marion Co., Florida was studied using mark and recapture methods. Population size and structure were determined for Sternotherus minor and Sternotherus odoratus, and turtle community structure was compared to results from a study conducted in the 1940s. Profound changes in the turtle community of Rainbow Run have occurred over the last 50 years. Emydid turtles of the genus Pseudemys predominated in the turtle fauna in the 1940's, the genus Sternotherus predominates today.
24319768|An innovation was diffused to a regional human service system using the community college as a vehicle. The roles performed by the anthropologist in the project are described.
24319932|A method has been developed to remove coral tissue from coral skeleton using high pressure gas. When used with a scuba tank fitted with a single stage pressure regulator and a molecular sieve trap, tissue can be removed from corals at remote sampling sites thus avoiding the transport of bulky carbonate skeleton.
24320483|Pondcypress (Taxodium distichum var ascendens) swamps were studied to assess the impacts of fire on cypress regeneration. Transects were established in 1990 in swamps that were burned by wildfires in 1985, in swamps that were burned by prescribed fires in 1987, and in swamps with no recent fire history. Although basal sprout reproduction by cypress was common in the burned swamps, no seedlings were found. This suggests that other factors, such as hydroperiod, are important in regeneration of cypress swamps.
24320021|A Florida mouse was observed collecting and transporting a fruit of the flag pawpaw (Asimina incarna). This is the first record of pawpaw in the diet of this species.
24320161|Lake Wauberg, Florida, has a long history of blue-green algal dominance throughout the year, with annual mean Secchi depths of 0.5 m. Growth of periphytic algal species on submersed glass slides was negligible in winter under the usual bloom conditions. In February, 1981, the phytoplankton population drastically decreased in biomass. Secchi depth rose to 3.0 m, and periphytic algal standing crops on glass slides dramatically increased. As the phytoplankton populations recovered, periphytic algal standing crop decreased. A succession of green algae in February, green algae and cryptomonad in March, and blue-green algae by April, 1982, was observed as the phytoplankton recovered pre-collapse densities. The periphyton succession was dominated by green algae in March, green algae and diatoms in April-May, and by blue-green algae in June and July. Phytoplankton diversity decreased during the recovery period, and was negatively correlated with total biovolume. Periphyton diversity increased as the phytoplankton recovered and periphyton biovolume decreased to annual mean levels.
24322275|New county and locality records of biting midges (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) and frogbiting midges (Diptera: Corethrellidae) are reported from the Florida Keys (Monroe County). Atrichopogon geminus Boesel, Forcipomyia (Euprojoannisia) blantoni Soria and Bystrak, F. (Lepidohelea) eadsi Wirth and Spinelli, Dasyhelea oppressa Thomsen, Culicoides travisi Vargas, and Corethrella wirthi Stone, are all new records for Monroe County, Florida. New locality records within Monroe County are provided for Forcipomyia (Blantonia) caribbea Wirth and Dow, F. (Euprojoannisia) calcarata (Coquillett), F. (Microhelea) eriophora Williston, F. (M.) fuliginosa (Meigen), F. (Synthridomyia) floridensis Dow and Wirth, Dasyhelea grisea (Coquillett), D. mutabilis (Coquillett), D. pseudoincisurata Waugh and Wirth, and Brachypogon (B.) fuscivenosus (Lutz).
24321269|We examined foraging selectivity of big brown bats (Eptesicus fuscus) in a maternity colony located in Clarke County, Georgia. We tested to see if diet differed among four stages of reproduction: pre-parturition, parturition, early lactation, and late lactation. We determined available prey using insect light traps and the diet of the colony by examining fecal pellets. The remains of insects from four of the nine insect orders captured were encountered during fecal analysis: Coleoptera, Lepidoptera, Hymenoptera, and Diptera. The relative availability of three insect orders differed among the four stages of reproduction. The proportion of Coleoptera consumed also differed among the four stages of reproduction. Despite differences in the relative abundance of the three insect orders and the proportion of one insect order consumed during the four stages of reproduction, general foraging patterns of the bats in the colony remained unchanged from pre-parturition to late lactation; the bats consumed more coleopterans and fewer lepidopterans, dipterans, and hymenopterans than expected based on the relative abundance of these orders throughout all stages of reproduction. Thus, the diet of bats may be affected by the differing energetic demands of each reproductive stage. These differences, while statistically significant, may not reflect general foraging preferences.
24319463|Four new records from Florida and two from Georgia confirm an expanded range for Clemmys guttata.
24320587|Cactophilic yeast were sampled from decaying stems and fruit of two Opuntia species at four locations in Florida. Species composition of the community differed between stems and fruits with very few species occurring in both habitats, although fruits and stems were interspersed. Stem communities were more homogeneous than fruit communities. The yeast communitites from stems of different species of cacti were dominated by different species of yeast. Analysis of the pH of decaying tissue supported the hypothesis that the number of yeast species per stem increased through time. There were several significant pair-wise associations (both positive and negative) in the distributions of the most common cactophilic species. Some negative associations could be explained as the outcome of the ability of some of yeast to kill yeasts with which they were negatively associated.
24320315|Recent fish collections made along the coast of east-central Florida have produced 98 species previously unrecorded in this region of Florida. Twelve families have also been added to the regional check-list.
24321879|Biological fouling is the accumulation and growth of aquatic organisms on submerged surfaces. Fouling can reduce the operation time and quality of data from aquatic real-time sensors. The SCCF Marine Laboratory currently has seven 'River, Estuary and Coastal Observation Network' (RECON) real-time sensor arrays deployed in the waters throughout southwest Florida. This study's goal was to compare eight commercially available anti-fouling coatings at three RECON stations (Redfish Pass, Gulf of Mexico and Shell Point). At all locations, PVC frames holding six plates (each 10.2cm2) with various treatments were deployed. At the RECON sites, plates were deployed for four months and sampled monthly using digital photography. Plate images were analyzed using image analysis software Coral Point Count, for percent cover of organisms such as biofilm and barnacles. Four copper-based coating types were the most effective at preventing fouling, particularly by damaging barnacles and amphipod tubes, especially at high fouling locations. Using the correct coating type at a given RECON site is essential in preventing fouling while also minimizing down-time for redeployment.
24322459|Anthropogenic activities have altered streams and rivers throughout Florida. Silvicultural practices, deadhead logging, road and bridge maintenance, de-snagging for navigation and flood control, and the clearing of riparian buffers for development have all impacted Florida's streams and rivers through the loss of ecologically important woody material from stream banks and channels. Repercussions from these impacts include changes to sedimentation patterns and stream morphology, erosion of banks and bars, and the consequent loss of habitat structure and diversity. The loss of large woody material (LWM) presents far-reaching impacts on the hydrology, ecology, and water quality of southeastern coastal plain streams, however federal and state law regulating the removal and/or reintroduction of LWM remains murky. Current decision-making does not adequately account for LWM's importance to Florida streams, and in many cases, the law appears to treat the removal of LWM more favorably than it does its reintroduction. We conclude that use of Best Management Practices associated with current statutory exemptions and categorical permits, as well as stakeholder education, offers the greatest promise of reducing the adverse impacts historic loss of LWM has had on coastal plain streams in Florida. Specific challenges include working with regionally appropriate techniques, balancing safety and accessibility with natural processes, and allowing for uncertainties.
24321788|We determined the amount of peat that has been lost during the ensuing century, to evaluate the impact of drainage for agricultural development and urbanization on the Everglades. To do this, we used spatially referenced peat surface data created for a Natural System Regional Simulation Model (NSRSM) and recent information gathered within the Everglades Protection Area (EPA) and the Everglades Agricultural Area (EAA) for the South Florida Topography Project. These two surfaces were spatially projected using a Geographic Information System to calculate peat loss and the resultant carbon emissions. The EPA is divided into Water Conservation Areas (WCAs) and Everglades National Park (ENP). We estimated a decrease in the elevation of the peat surface for the EPA over a period of about 130 years. The peat surface elevation decreased from 0.01 m (0.1 ft) to 1.7 m (5.5 ft) which resulted in carbon dioxide emissions from peat loss on the order of 0.02 to 0.41 g m-2 hr-1 (0.2 to 3.5 kilograms m-2 yr-1). The decrease in elevation of the peat surface and carbon dioxide emissions from the Water Conservation Areas fell between these values. If restoration of these regions is successful, the region has the potential of becoming a significant sink for carbon.
24319769|Anthropology at the community college has continually been viewed with skepticism by anthropologists at senior institutions. A primary reason for this is the minimal anthropological background of anthropology instructors at the community college level. A survey of the anthropology instructors in Florida's community colleges substantiated this. Consequently, a definite need exists for adequate preparation of these instructors.
24320533|Data comparing Departments of Chemistry at six Florida universities (number of faculty, postdoctoral appointments, degrees granted at the masters and doctoral levels) were gathered. These were compared with faculty productivity, including total number of publications for a two-year period (January 1, 1985 through December 31, 1986), mean number of publications per faculty member, percentage of those faculty who did not publish during that period, and the maximum number of publications for one faculty member in the department.
24321385|The effect of Calamintha ashei's allelopathy on the distribution of other Florida scrub species was evaluated in the field, in both intact and degraded scrub. Experimental treatments (aboveground biomass removal and application of activated carbon) were used to remove the potential source of allelochemicals and neutralize any remaining in the soil. It was expected that these treatments would result in an increase in species diversity due to the emergence of seedlings in the absence of C. ashei (as germination would have been suppressed in the presence of the allelopathic chemicals). There was higher herb/graminoid density and richness as well as higher overall species richness in the absence of C. ashei. The plant communities of intact and degraded scrub sites differed significantly in their species compositions. Overall species diversity and lichen diversity were significantly higher in intact scrub than degraded scrub. Removal of C. ashei did not increase seedling emergence of other species in either type of scrub. Therefore, a field and/or laboratory study involving the direct application of leachate and manipulation of water and other resources may be useful to determine whether Calamintha ashei is affecting other species via competition for resources or via the production of allelopathic chemicals.
24319960|Strip transects were monitored from April 1977 to February 1982 to census birds in habitats associated with north Florida flatwoods before and after harvest (clearcutting) of slash pine (Pinus elliottii). Four habitats were designated: pine, harvested pine, cypress (Taxodium distichum), and edge (areas within 10 m of the interface of 2 other habitat types). Bird densities generally were greater in edge and cypress habitats than in pine or in harvested habitats during spring, summer, and fall seasons. Flocking winter visitors used cypress, harvested, and edge habitats at greater densities than they used pine habitats. Densities of species resident year-round were low in harvested pine. The avian community in edge habitats was dominated by the same species that were common in the other 3 habitats. Seasonal fluctuations were evident in edge, cypress, and harvested habitats with greatest densities occurring in December and January. Densities in pine showed no appreciable changes with time of year. Impacts of clearcutting on flatwoods avifauna may be partially mitigated by retaining cypress habitats when pines are harvested.
24321556|Mechanical treatments such as roller-chopping, mowing, chain-sawing, and logging, and herbicide application, are increasingly used to manage fire-maintained Florida ecosystems. Goals include achieving or restoring desired vegetation structure and composition, providing habitat for listed species, and allowing the reintroduction of fire. We review studies evaluating mechanical treatments and herbicide effects on Florida's plant and animal communities. Mechanical treatments and herbicide often accelerated vegetation structure changes, but ecological benefits were generally greatest when they were combined with fire. Soil disturbances, weedy species increases, and rapid hardwood resprouting were sometimes problems with mechanical treatments. Fire itself was crucial for maintenance of individual species and species diversity. When feasible, mechanical and herbicide treatments should be used as pretreatments for fire rather than as fire surrogates. Managers should segue to fire-only approaches as soon as possible. The effects of removing fire, the most evolutionarily significant disturbance in Florida, on fire-adapted plants and animals requires more study. If we increase the use of mechanical agents, how will this affect ecosystem resilience? We suggest caution in using these evolutionarily novel treatments, with close monitoring of their effects. More information on the long-term effects of repeated non-fire treatments is needed before such approaches are adopted uncritically.
24319763|Previous historical research suggests that slaves supplemented their weekly food allotments with domestic and wild foodstuffs. Our research project, which utilized ecological, archeological and zooarcheological data, provides concrete evidence that slaves extensively exploited the wild food resources of the coastal ecozone of South Carolina, Georgia and northern Florida.
24320070|A checklist of plants found on the Merritt Island peninsula and the offshore barrier island complex encompassing Cape Canaveral is presented. Located midway along Florida's east coast, the region covered by the checklist extends about 70 mi north to south and includes about 225 sq mi. Although much of the original vegetation present in the southern half was destroyed as a consequence of rapid development in the 1960's, a diverse flora still exists. A total of 943 native or naturalized taxa plus 124 plants persisting from cultivation around abandoned homesites are listed. The flora represents approximately 25% of all the taxa estimated to be native to the state of Florida.
24321378|The attraction of larvae of the black salt marsh mosquito, Ochlerotatus taeniorhynchus, to blue, green, yellow and red colored lights was investigated. Aquatic light traps provided with chemical light sticks collected more mosquito larvae than did unlit control traps. Traps with blue light sticks collected the most mosquito larvae, followed in descending order by green, yellow, and red light sticks.
24319450|Acetylsalicylic acid and acetaminophen caused exaggerated increase in body temperature during heat stress. No beneficial effect was determined for survival time under heat stress.
24320292|Populations of native Cereus were studied over a 4-yr period, and all were found to be declining. Taxonomic confusion and different concepts of taxa are discussed and conclusions drawn.
24320741|Water level records from 37 locations in Florida Bay are used to quantify semidiurnal, diurnal, fortnightly, monthly, semiannual and annual tidal constituents. Semidiurnal and diurnal waves enter primarily from the Gulf side of the bay, but also through tidal channels that connect Florida Bay with the Atlantic Ocean. M2 amplitudes in the northwest corner of the bay are 35 cm; amplitudes in tidal channels along the southeast side of the bay are 1520 cm. S2 amplitudes decrease along the western boundary of the bay from 11 cm in the northwest corner to 2 cm at the southern end. Highest S2 amplitudes in tidal channels are 46 cm. K1 and O1 constituents have highest amplitudes of 15 and 12 cm in the northwest corner of the bay. Semidiurnal and diurnal tidal waves converging toward the interior of the bay are heavily damped, and amplitudes are less than 1 cm in the northcentral and northeast parts of the bay. Long-period tides are damped less. Amplitudes of the fortnightly and monthly constituents are 13 cm at all stations. The amplitude of the annual tidal constituent is 810 cm throughout Florida Bay. Nontidal forcing introduces considerable station-to-station, and year-to-year variability in the phase angles of the semiannual and annual constituents. Semiannual constituent amplitudes are 35 cm and act to delay annual maximum water levels to late September.
24320496|Fragments from sixteen separate races of hydrilla [Hydrilla verticillata, (L.f.) Royle] collected worldwide were evaluated in outside aquaria for ability to survive and grow. Differences were observed between races in their potential to establish and grow from fragments. Total biomass varied approximately sevenfold between the least and most productive races. The difference between the initial fragment and final weights ranged from 14 to 250 fold. Survival varied between 10 and 73%. A significant negative relationship was observed between first root development time and biomass. The number of rooted nodes which developed on stolons was the best single predictor of biomass production. Rates of root development on fragments of the various hydrilla races are criteria that may be useful in predicting the ability of the races to become established. Differences in shoot and root development were observed between races in their responses to applied plant growth regulators.
24320222|To understand physician involvement in hypertension treatment, selected specialists in Florida were queried with 2 mail questionnaires. Four-hundred forty-eight physicians, primarily cardiologists, internists and family/general practitioners responded. Over 74% treat hypertension, spending over 15% of their time doing so. Of treating physicians, over one-third do not provide hypertensive patients with educational materials; over 60% felt that a catalog of local hypertension services would not be of benefit to them. This research suggests that physician supervised treatment of hypertension by nurses and other allied health care personnel will become a reality because physicians will be forced to delegate treatment duties as more and more of the millions of currently undetected and untreated hypertensives seek treatment.
24322140|Environmental education has been part of the curriculum in Southwest Florida public schools. Curriculum objectives, such as environmental awareness, knowledge, and attitude, have been investigated in the literature as ways to improve the overall behavior of future citizens toward the environment. The purpose of this study was to conduct a preliminary evaluation of the aforementioned objectives among the following groups: environmental education specialists, high school instructors, high school students, and the parents of the corresponding students in three Southwest Florida counties. The returned surveys represented responses from 27 environmental education specialists, 15 high school instructors, 224 high school students, and 222 parents. This study found significant differences among the groups regarding the levels of environmental awareness, knowledge, and attitude. The environmental education specialists scored the highest for these components as compared to the lowest levels presented by parent awareness, parent attitude, and high school student knowledge. In addition, demographic factors such as socioeconomic status and preference of leisure activities resulted in differences among the groups. This study presents an alternative for the usually independent evaluation of awareness, knowledge, and attitude as an appropriate approach to the evaluation of environmental curriculum objectives.
24322129|Seagrass areal coverage is estimated through seagrass polygon maps created almost biennially in Charlotte Harbor, Florida by photo-interpreting aerial photographs. This effort reports and analyzes coverage data for 19822003 for Upper and Lower Charlotte Harbor regions and 13 seagrass segments. Analyses did not detect trends in Upper or Lower Charlotte Harbor regions from 19822003. The Placida and Pine Island segments displayed increasing trends from 19822003, while the Peace River segment demonstrated a decreasing trend. From 19882003 the Placida segment displayed an increasing trend in areal extent, while the nearby South Harbor segment demonstrated a decreasing trend. Several segments demonstrated trends in seagrass polygon classification from "patchy" to "continuous" or vice versa, whereas these segments displayed no trend in areal extent. Relatively large changes occurred between the 1996 and 1999 mapping events, potentially a result of above-average rainfall with the 19971998 El Nio. This effort proposes that the changes may also be resultant in part from changes in the timing of data acquisition. Despite regional stability in seagrass coverage, declining water quality in some areas and the potential for future declines in others give reason for concern for the long-term maintenance of seagrass coverage in the Charlotte Harbor area.
24321052|A 31.6 ha (78 acre) created wetland in east central Florida was used by 103 species of wildlife in the first two years following construction. Fauna included nine amphibians, six reptiles, 78 birds, and 10 mammals. Amphibians, birds, and mammals were observed in the first week of the first sampling period, and reptiles were first observed six months later. Cumulative species richness increased throughout the study. Both wetland and upland species were observed.
24321924|Now, more than ever, conservation and technology are crossing paths. The Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission (FWC) launched a citizen science portal to help with statewide gopher tortoise conservation. With the Florida Gopher Tortoise smartphone application ("app"), Florida residents and visitors can play a more significant role in species conservation. App users can help by submitting photos of opportunistic observations of gopher tortoises, including the location data, to FWC directly from their smartphone. The app also includes a quiz, information on the biology of the gopher tortoise, laws that protect it and its burrow, and how to report a suspected violation to law enforcement. The FWC has received an overwhelming amount of positive feedback from users and the media throughout Florida. The Florida Gopher Tortoise app's success fueled the development of additional citizen science initiatives that include volunteer and student intern programs. With the help of citizen scientists, volunteers, and interns, FWC is working to fill several data gaps that will help accomplish the goal of the Gopher Tortoise Management Plan and help conserve many other fish and wildlife species in Florida.
24319543|Twenty-one children from a second grade class were given the WISC in the spring of 1976. In December of that year they were again given a WISC, a WISC-R and a Stanford-Binet. The children scored significantly lower on the WISC-R than on either of the two WISC examinations or the Stanford-Binet. This has implications for the placement of children in academically handicapped or gifted programs. It appears that use of the WISC-R will result in more academically handicapped and fewer gifted children in a given sample than would be the case if the WISC had been used.
24321911|Good and cogent reasons exist for the removal of halides from natural water systems. This study was concerned with evaluating the ease or possibility of removing fluoride, chloride, and bromide ions from water by column chromatography with Octolig, commercially available supported chelating agents (polyethylenediimines covalently attached to a high-surface-area silica gel) (CAS Registry No. 404899-06-5). Previous research suggested a mechanism, for removal of certain anions, subsequent research indicated the efficacy for removal of fluoride ion, and still other research indicated that bromide was not removed under similar conditions. Plotting percent removal as a function of charge/ion volume ratio suggested that perhaps 20% removal might be anticipated for chloride ion; the actual result in deionized water was consistently 10%. Anomalous results observed with the attempted removal of chloride from solutions of well water are presented and considered.
24321097|Seagrass losses have been reported for the area of St. Andrew Bay known as West Bay, in Bay County, Florida. Utilizing both field density observations and aerial photography extrapolation for 1953, 1964, 1980, and 1992 images, estimated seagrass losses from West Bay have been reported by the U.S. Geological Survey to be over 1,000 acres or approximately 50%. Noteworthy anthropogenic events altering the condition of West Bay during this time period have included: 1) U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' (USCOE) construction of the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway (GIWW) between Choctawhatchee Bay and West Bay in 1938; 2) the creation of wetland drainage canals for both transportation and silvicultural purposes around the 1960s; 3) the 1970 implementation of an aquacultural endeavor, and 4) the 1971 introduction of a wastewater effluent to southern West Bay from a municipal sewage treatment plant. In an effort to better understand the cause of seagrass losses for the purpose of designing restoration efforts, a water and sediment quality survey was conducted. Suspected sediment contamination (potentially resulting from extensive use of antifouling coatings for nets and equipment during the aquacultural enterprise) was not confirmed with sediment sampling and analyses for metals and organotin compounds. Water column surveys revealed important differences in turbidity (NTU), water clarity (Secchi depth), and salinity (ppt). However, small differences in dissolved oxygen (mg/L), pH (SU), chlorophyll a (g/L), and temperature (EC) were not thought as important to seagrass loss or restoration efforts. Differences in water quality appeared to be heavily dependent on depth, wind direction, recent precipitation, tidal flow, and proximity to points of allochthonous inputs such as the GIWW, wetland drainage canals, stormwater runoff, and a wastewater effluent outfall.
24321933|The little free-tailed bat, Molossus molossus, on Boca Chica Key, Monroe County, Florida, feeds mostly on Coleoptera (81.4% volume), including Carabidae (35.9%), Scarabaeidae (9.7%), and Chrysomelidae (2.7%). These were followed by Hemiptera (24.7%), primarily Lygaeidae (9.6%), and Pentatomidae (2.9% volume). Very few lepidopterans, dipterans, homopterans, and hymenopterans (Formicidae, 1.3% volume) were eaten. This bat is one of relatively few species that feeds very heavily on hard bodied insects, mainly beetles, but also hemipterans. This mode of feeding for this species may have arisen through food partitioning.
24319706|A species association index based on presenceabsence data was used to identify 5 species complexes on Lake Conway, Florida. These complexes include Lepisosteus platyrhincusPomoxis nigromaculatus, Micropterus salmoidesLepomis macrochirus, Dorosoma petenenseLabidesthes sicculus, Gambusia affinisLucania goodei, and Lepomis gulosusEnneacanthus gloriosus associations. The 2 species with the largest index of affinity bear the complex name. All complexes were correlated with basic habitat features. Species pairs with the largest individual affinity indices included Dorosoma petenenseLabidesthes sicculus, Lucania goodeiGambusia affinis, and Micropterus salmoidesLepomis macrochirus.
24320684|Cladophora sp. filaments densely aggregated in ball-like structures, 1.5 to 2 cm in diameter, were found floating in shallow water (10 cm deep) and rolling on the bottom of a hypersaline pond. Diatoms, blue-green algae, dinoflagellates, and metazoaall in a healthy conditionthrived within the balls. The richly branched filaments interlaced by numerous rhizoids, and the environmental conditions of the habitat may account for the spherical shape of the structures. In the same location brown mounds of intertwined Phormidium sp. filaments securely attached to flat rocks formed low domes 1 to 3 cm tall and 1 to 7 cm in diameter. The mounds mainly consisted of alternating bands of filaments and carbonate particles, but diatoms, blue-green algae, red algae, and debris were also present. It is suggested that entrapment of carbonate particles by the mucilaginous sheaths of the filaments and seasonal growth of the mounds account for the bands of algae and particles.
24319531|The vegetation of southern Florida has been of interest to ecologists for many years. Five physiographic provinces are recognized for the area: the Sandy Flatwoods, the Everglades, the Big Cypress Swamp, the Atlantic Coastal Ridge, and the Coastal Marshes and Mangrove Swamps. There are 1647 species of vascular plants in this area with 60.6% of the total of tropical origin. The four components of the vegetation are the tropical flora, the temperate flora, the endemic flora, and the introduced flora. The endemic flora is approximately 10% of the total and most of these appear to be related to the temperate Appalachian flora. Additional research is needed to clarify the origin of Florida 's endemic species.
24319551|Ecotypes of Stylosanthes hamata (L.) Taub. were collected from along the east coast of south Florida. Among these, tetraploid types grew more vigorously than did diploid types. Some of the ecotypes of this native legume have a potential for use as a forage plant in south Florida pastures.
24320178|Interspecific brood size-body length comparisons for snakes indicate that the two variables are positively correlated. Three factors (reproductive mode, taxonomic group, and habitat type) are identified as significant correlates of relative fecundity (brood size/body length). Snakes with the highest relative fecundities are typically viviparous, tend to be from certain taxonomic (phylogenetic?) categories (primarily the Natricinae, Xenodontinae, and Viperinae), and/or are most often aquatic, semi-aquatic, or semi-fossorial.
24320175|A program to monitor sea turtle nesting activity was initiated by the Florida Department of Natural Resources (FDNR) in 1979. The total number of nests counted has increased each year; however, the length of beach surveyed has also increased. Analysis of nest density (number of nests/km) and data from beaches surveyed consistently over a number of years suggest that loggerhead (Caretta caretta) and leatherback (Dermochelys coriacea) nesting activity remained fairly stable during the seven year period while green turtle (Chelonia mydas) nesting activity increased markedly during the 1985 season.
24319536|Advanced eutrophication of the lake has resulted in massive algal blooms which have shaded out bottom dwelling plants so effectively that some can be found there no longer.
24320247|Antillophis parvifrons stygius was collected on Isla Saona, Repblica Dominicana. A female that was gravid when collected laid 4 eggs on 22 July and 3 eggs on 4 September. The hatchlings differed in coloration and pattern from adults of A. p. stygius and were reminiscent of A. p. paraniger. Adult A. p. stygius exhibited dorsoventral neck flattening, but this behavior was not observed in the hatchlings.
24319915|Archaeologically, portions of south Florida are still poorly known. A salvage archaeology excavation of a burial mound at the Nebot site (8Pb219) in Palm Beach establishes a Glades IIIc (A.D.1513-1700) occupation with several unique artifacts. Analysis of decorated bone pins and a projectile point presumed associated with two burials give insights into local mortuary practices as well as the use of metal alloy in decoration. Data are also presented suggesting cultural patterns common to other cultural areas in Florida.
24321012|The distribution of Aedes albopictus in Indian River County, Florida, was determined by larval and pupal collections. This mosquito is found in the eastern and central parts of the county, with the western portion free of infestation. Possible explanations for this distribution include sanitation, restricted public access, and St. John's Marsh serving as a barrier to movement.
24321539|The Atlantic Ridge Preserve State Park (ARPSP) in east central Martin County, Florida was surveyed for terrestrial amphibian and reptile species from December of 2001 to October 2003. The survey was conducted through drift fence arrays and opportunistic captures resulting in 328 animals captured representing 31 species (29 native, 2 introduced). The survey had a total of 1302 array days and was conducted in the park's predominant wet flatwoods plant community. The ARPSP contains many of the terrestrial species known to inhabit Martin County and shares most (82%) of the same species as are found in the wet flatwoods of nearby Jonathan Dickinson State Park.
24319782|In 1975, the Florida Legislature adopted the "Local Government Comprehensive Planning Act". This act requires all counties and municipalities to create a comprehensive plan to guide future urban development. I discuss the application of anthropological techniques and skills to the production of a comprehensive plan. I demonstrate the integration of ethnography and ethnoscience into the urban planning process. The perspective of this report is that of an interdisciplinary approach, as practiced through a private consulting firm.
24319937|Three species of intestional helminths were recovered from 100 Cuban anoles, Anolis sagrei sagrei, collected from residential areas of Tampa, Florida between May and October, 1981. Physaloptera squamatae was in the stomachs of 56(56 %) hosts with a mean intensity of infection of 19.1 worms. Cyrtosomum scelopori was recovered from the intestine less frequently (35 %), but had a higher mean intensity (99.6). Mesocoelium monas was in the intestine and stomach of 10 % of the hosts and exhibited the lowest mean intensity of infection (3.6). Physaloptera squamatae and M. monas are new host records. Significant positive correlations were observed between the prevalence and mean intensity of the 2 nematodes and host length. Male and female Cuban anoles had similar prevalences and mean intensities for all parasites.
24321727|A study of the hexapod biodiversity was performed on an urban university campus. Habitas included extensive turf/garden areas as well as a highly degraded pine scrub plot. Species were sorted into morphospecies and classified to the lowest taxonomic level possible. A total of 541 species representing 18 orders was collected and identified. The greatest species richness was represented in the Hemiptera (21.8%), Coleoptera (20.3%), Diptera (19.2%), Lepidoptera (18.9%) and Hymenoptera (13.5%) accounting for 93.7% of the total taxa collected. These same orders accounted for 82.9% of the 140 families represented. Based on the data collected it is inferred that the inventory is far from complete, although many of the taxa are likely adventive (not indigenous) to the area. Biodiversity was also assessed indirectly through comparison with reported ant diversity and beetle diversity from the region. The proportion of exotic ants on campus (46%) is much greater than that which has been reported for other regional sites. The highly disturbed environment, the exotic flora and subtropical location all appear to influence the proportion of exotic species found. These data provide a baseline for other studies on South Florida invertebrates and illustrate the ease with which exotic species can become established in a subtropical environment.
24319643|Carpiodes cyprinus and C. velifer were captured with a boat-mounted electrofishing apparatus in various habitats in the Escambia and Choctawhatchee rivers, and C. cyprinus was similarly captured in the Apalachicola River. There was much overlap in habitat, but in the Escambia River C. cyprinus occurred in mid-river more than would have been expected had the 2 species of carpsuckers been similarly distributed. Carpiodes cyprinus was concentrated in mid-river in late summer and early fall during low water in all 3 rivers, and during high water C. cyprinus occupied areas of reduced current. On the other hand, C. velifer occupied areas of reduced current in the Escambia and Choctawhatchee rivers throughout the year.
24319701|In recent years, there has been a decline in Florida's waterfowl population, especially among the dabbling ducks and geese. There is much speculation as to what is responsible for this decline. Although Florida has an abundance of potential areas for waterfowl populations, very little intensive management is practiced on a statewide basis. I discuss the types of waterfowl management employed on Florida's wetlands and compare these practices with waterfowl populations occurring within the State. Problems confronting wetlands managers and some possible alternatives for management are discussed.
24320313|Three species of cichlid fishes (Cichlasoma octofasciatum, Tilapia melanotheron, and T. mossambica) and 2 poeciliid species (Xiphophorus maculatus and X. helleri) have been introduced recently into the coastal canals and waterways of the Banana-Indian River estuary near Satellite Beach, Brevard County, Florida. Collections taken during 1980 and 1981 indicate that the cichlids are firmly established, rapidly expanding their ranges, and capable of tolerating saline conditions and low water temperatures. Of immediate concern is the possibility of the detrimental impact on commercially-important native species, which use the estuaries as nursery grounds.
24320968|Information is scarce on the herpetofaunal community of upland hardwood forest. Three drift fence arrays were used over a one-year period to survey the herpetofauna of a tract of upland hardwood forest in Gadsden County, Florida. A total of 914 individuals of 18 amphibian and 14 reptile species was captured. Coverboards and incidental observations yielded one additional amphibian and seven additional reptile species. The most frequently captured species were the southern toad (Bufo terrestris), three-lined salamander (Eurycea guttolineata), southern two-lined salamander (E. cirrigera), and southeastern slimy salamander (Plethodon grobmani). Recaptures constituted 13.3% of all captures. Reptiles exhibited a bimodal pattern of seasonal activity. Most anurans (95.6%) and reptiles (81.6%) were captured from April to October. Over one-half of the anurans captured were immature individuals. Salamanders exhibited more year-round activity than anurans, particularly during periods of precipitation during their breeding seasons. Bimonthly capture rates for anurans were correlated with lowest recorded minimum air temperature and amount of precipitation, whereas capture rates for salamanders were only correlated with amount of precipitation. Noteworthy findings were the presence of four-toed (Hemidactylium scutatum) and Apalachicola dusky (Desmognathus apalachicolae) salamanders. Retention of undisturbed hardwood forests along streams and protection of the quantity and quality of water in streams and seepage areas are recommended to maintain a diverse amphibian community in a fragmented rural or residential landscape.
24320388|Foods of young blue tilapia, Oreochromis aureus, and larvae of sympatric fishes in Lake George, Florida, were examined to characterize the early trophic ecology of this introduced species under natural conditions and to estimate the extent of overlap in food between young blue tilapia and the young of native fishes. Brooded blue tilapia positively selected for rotifers and the cladoceran Bosmina, but phytoplankton and detritus were about 90% of the gut contents (volumetrically). Newly independent blue tilapia ate mostly immature copepods, Bosmina, and rotifers. Bosmina, Diaphanosoma, and adult calanoid copepods were positively selected for; about 10 % of the volume of the gut contents consisted of planktonic algae and particulate detritus. Similarity of diets of shads (Dorosoma spp.) and independent blue tilapia was relatively high, suggesting that exploitative competition between early life history stages of these species may contribute to the declines in shad population abundances observed following introductions of blue tilapia.
24319662|Three fishes were collected for the first time in Louisiana during recent ecological investigations in the Mississippi River. The known ranges of Hybopsis gelida, H. meekei and Noturus flavus were extended 1125, 642, and 370 river km, respectively.
24321062|The Surficial Aquifer on Kennedy Space Center, Merritt Island, Florida occurs in unconsolidated Pleistocene and Holocene deposits; it is divided into four subaquifers (Dune, Dune-Swale, West Plain, Marsh) based on recharge areas and groundwater characteristics. We determined background characteristics from shallow (4.6 m, N = 24), intermediate (10.7 m, N = 16), and deep (15.2 m, N = 11) wells distributed among the four subaquifers. Wells were located away from known contamination. Organochlorine pesticides, aroclors, and chlorinated herbicides were below detection in all samples. Seven polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) occurred at low frequencies and concentrations at shallow depths of the Dune, Dune-Swale, and West Plain subaquifers. PAHs are present in soils and have both natural and anthropogenic sources. Most trace elements were below detection or in low concentrations. Only Al, Ca, Cl-, Fe, Mg, Mn, K, and Na along with total dissolved solids (TDS), total organic carbon (TOC), conductivity, pH, dissolved oxygen (DO), and temperature could be compared among subaquifers and depths. Ca, Cl-, Mg, Mn, K, Na, TDS, conductivity, and temperature differed with subaquifer and depth (ANOVA). These trends reflected increased mineralization with depth and interactions of the Dune and Marsh subaquifers with saline ocean and lagoon waters.
24320985|Describes the concept and approach of a water budget computer model which treats an entire aquifer as a unit, with emphasis on long-term effects. The model includes terms for rainfall, runoff, evapotranspiration, recharge/discharge, leakage, springs and pumpage, and allows multiple aquifer layers. The paper shows an example of application of the model to a real-world aquifer of reasonably well known characteristics.
24320176|Trout Lake (Lake County, Florida) was stocked on August 8, 1979 with 1,620 (38/hectare) marked advanced fingerling (100-134 mm) Florida largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides floridanus) to determine if the harvestable size bass population could be increased. The percentage of stocked largemouth bass in young-of-the-year (y-o-y) samples remained relatively constant at an average of 21 % through November 1979. An estimated 1.4% of the stocked largemouth bass recruited to harvestable size. The largemouth bass population of Trout Lake, which had successful reproduction and adequate survival of naturally produced y-o-y during our investigation, did not significantly increase in number due to supplemental stocking of advanced fingerling largemouth bass. Stocking of such systems was found to be cost prohibitive.
24321555|Glycerophospholipid and glycerophospholipid-bound fatty acid composition in isolated Trichinella spiralis larvae, nurse cells, and infectedluninfected mouse diaphragm tissue was determined by thin-layer chromatography on silica gel and by gas-liquid chromatography. Phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylserine, phosphatidylethanolamine and cardiolipin (di-phosphatidylglycerol) were the predominant phospholipids, with each sample exhibiting a characteristic mass of each phospholipid based on lipid phosphorus content. Elevated levels of phosphatidylserine were observed in nurse cells. Depressed levels of cardiolipin were observed in infected whole muscle tissue. The composition of fatty acids bound to phospholipids also varied between samples with the greatest variability in the relative amounts of C 16:0, 18:0, 22:0, 22:2, and 24:0.
24321598|To determine if our proposed oyster restoration methodology would restore biological diversity to damaged oyster reef ecosystems in Mosquito Lagoon, Florida, lift nets were deployed on the edges of 30 reefs in Canaveral National Seashore. Instead of the live oyster clusters used in a previous Mosquito Lagoon study (Boudreaux et al. 2006), each lift net contained either a plastic mesh square (control) or an oyster restoration mat, our proposed method of restoration. Oyster restoration mats were 0.4  0.4 m pieces of plastic mesh to which 36 drilled oyster shells were perpendicularly attached with cable ties. We quantified all flora and fauna in nets monthly between May 2006 and February 2007. During this time, a total of 12 macroalgal species and 87 animal species were observed in the lift nets. Overall, we found significantly higher numbers of motile and sessile animal species in our lift nets (p = 0.007 and p = 0.028, respectively) than in Boudreaux and co-workers (2006). Significantly more animal species and numbers of individuals were found in lift nets with oyster restoration mats than control lift nets. Based on our results, we are confident that our restoration mat design promotes biological diversity on restored oyster reefs.
24319867|Harvesting, site preparation and planting in slash pine flatwoods affect the herbaceous vegetation of the included wetlands in proportion to the amount of planting site disturbance. Short-term effects of management in the pinelands are not detectable in the woody components of the wetlands. Studies by other workers have indicated long-term impacts on woody species, suggesting more research is needed to determine the response of all components of the included wetlands.
24321199|Certified organic farmers from throughout the state of Florida provided information on cropping cycles, pests, and pest management practices. Florida's mixed organic vegetable farms are characterized by a broad range of pest problems due to the high degree of crop diversity on the farms, and the varied growing conditions found in the state, from temperate to subtropical. Because of the diversity of crops grown, no one pest predominates. With few exceptions, the pest problems encountered by organic growers are not different from those affecting conventional farmers. Organic growers tend to tolerate higher levels of pest damage, perhaps because of the higher market value of organic produce. Many organic growers exhibit a commitment to crop diversity that is based on farming philosophy as well as economics, and a willingness to experiment with new crops and new market niches. The complexity and flexibility of Florida's mixed organic vegetable farms enables growers to respond to pest pressure in many instances by reducing or eliminating a highly susceptible crop. Growers' responses revealed the need for increased ability to identify both pest and beneficial arthropod species. Several growers requested assistance in increasing natural on-farm biological control. Challenges to carrying out on-farm research under diverse cropping systems are discussed.
24321999|A total of 38 drift-fence arrays were sampled in Big Bend Wildlife Management Area (BBWMA), Taylor and Dixie counties, Florida, to assess the amphibian and reptile species composition within basin marsh, depression marsh, dome swamp, mesic flatwoods, scrubby flatwoods, wet flatwoods, hydric hammock, maritime hammock, mesic hammock, xeric hammock, sandhill, tidal marsh, upland hardwood forest, and ruderal (former sandhill and scrub in the process of being restored). There were 3,003 captures of 29 amphibian species and 943 captures of 37 reptile species during the 20092010 drift-fence survey. This has been the first survey for portions of BBWMA in more than 16 yr. There were six rare species (tracked by Florida Natural Areas Inventory) documented during this sampling effort: Crotalus adamanteus (eastern diamondback rattlesnake), Lampropeltis getula (eastern kingsnake), Gopherus polyphemus (gopher tortoise), Lithobates capito (gopher frog), Nerodia clarkii (gulf saltmarsh snake), and Amphiuma pholeter (one toed amphiuma). No exotic amphibian or reptile species was encountered.
24321479|Iron (III) forms an octahedral geometry with siderophores via Fe-O and/or Fe-N bonds. In this study semi-empirical (PM3) calculations are used to estimate the number of stable complexes possible between Fe(III) and the pharmaceutical agent bryostatin-1 (C47H68O17). One hundred and seventy-three unique Fe(III)-bryostatin-1 complexes were studied; none with a Fe-O bond distance greater 2.7 . Unique ferric-bryostatin complexes are defined as having six different Fe-O bonds, a unique dipole moment (D), molecular volume (V) and D/V ratio. In addition, ferricbryostatin complexes with five Fe-O bonds and a water or hydroxide anion occupying the sixth inner sphere site was also studied. This computational study suggests that the Fe(III)-bryostatin complex obtains stability in solution from the multiple geometries possible essentially trapping the ferric ion within the bryophan ring. The stable complexes studied thereby suggest why most siderophore complexes are difficult or impossible to crystallize. Finally, it is shown that the Fe(III)-bryostatin-1 complex can undergo significant shifts in polarity by shifting either of the seventeen oxygen atoms involved in the Fe-O bonding. These shifts allow the complex to adapt to various polarities by shifting bonds, hence it is dubbed a polarity smart molecule because it can adapt to its environment.
24319983|The Boynton Beach Mound site (8Pbl00) is an inland burial and midden mound complex in South Florida dating from 150 B.C. (Glades I) to the time of European contact. This paper describes and analyzes the skeletal characteristics of the occupants and compares this group with other Southeast Indians. The burial population consisted of 23 calvaria and 12 postcranial partial skeletons representing 16 females and 8 males. Juvenile mortality rate (29%) was high compared with other sites, but 13 % lived past 50 years. Stature of one male was at least 171 cm; stature of one female was about 155 cm. Adult teeth were generally worn horizontally to the dentin, and had no caries. Two skulls showed unusual deformation. With the exception of a case of periostitis, skeletal health was generally good.
24321423|Five pop-up bayhead islands in Arthur R. Marshall Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge were surveyed for height and topography. Height measurements were collected from 4 or 5 transects at 2 m intervals aligned along north-south and east-west axis of each island. Maximum tree island height relative to marsh averaged 0.84  0.05 m (S.E.) and ranged from 0.690.97 m. Mean and median height for all islands combined was 0.39  0.01 m. Examination of water levels from 19952004, suggests that tree islands in the central and central-south part of the refuge have experienced water levels above 0.4 m (median height) 86% and 71% of the time and >0.6 m 39% and 17% of the time, respectively. During those nine years, the number of times that duration of water level above 0.4 and 0.6 m exceeded 60 days (a timeframe suggested to cause "stress") was ten and two, respectively, for the central area. Tree islands in the central-south area experienced greater than 60 days with water level above 0.4 m and 0.6 m eight and nine times, respectively. The average duration of water level above median island height was 225  27 days for the central area and 350  71 days for the central-south area. Average duration above 0.6 m was 104  41 and 127  15 days for the central and central-south areas, respectively. These data suggest that recent water level conditions within the southern part of the refuge may not be optimal for long-term sustainability of tree islands.
24319751|Four fish species, Ophichthus gomesi, Ophidion marginatum, Echeneis neucratoides, and Hypleurocheilus geminatus, are recorded for the first time from the Indian River lagoon system on the east coast of Florida.
24320422|An active gopher tortoise (Gopherus polyphemus) burrow was used by an eastern spotted skunk (Spilogale putorius) for escape cover during winter. The burrow was subsequently utilized by the skunk as a winter den during late winter and early spring. This commensal relationship ended when spotted skunks apparently usurped the burrow, enlarged it, and utilized it to successfully raise 3 young.
24320773|Ocean current meters in 18 and 24 m depth water along the southeast Florida coast recorded water motions as Hurricane Andrew crossed the narrow continental shelf with the storm center 32 km from the southernmost current meter. Wind speeds up to 55 m s-1 at the meter closest to the storm path were associated with recorded mean current speeds up to 94 cm s-1. The greatest water speeds, however, were transient motions from the wind waves. These motions caused major changes to the bottom and to objects lying on it. Direct and remotely sensed observations showed an increasing degree of turbulence in the water as the hurricane approached, stirring both air bubbles and bottom sediment throughout the water and mixing the water so that vertical shear in the current was suppressed. Thus, beneath the strong wind stress there was not a mean water flow in the direction of the wind at the surface and a flow in the opposite direction near the bottom, as had been indicated in previous studies. In later stages of the storm passage, the current developed an eastward component, running against the incoming wind waves, which may have contributed to the evolution of the most extreme conditions.
24320304|The planktonic foraminiferal fauna was studied from 186 samples collected by the R/V Melville in the Southwest Atlantic Ocean during 1972. The samples were collected in the surface layer (horizontal tows) and throughout the water column from 500-0 m. (vertical tows). Twenty species were recognized (some with various formae). These species can be divided according to their temperature requirements into cold-temperate, warm-temperate, warm and cosmopolitan species. Based on the distribution of these species, 4 types of surface water were determined.
24319735|We report northward range extensions of Gnathophyllum modestum Hay and Lysmata intermedia (Kingsley) of 203 and 445 km, respectively. A new bathymetric record (91 m) is recorded for L. amboinensis (DeMan). The continuous distribution of Trachycaris restrictus (A. MilneEdwards) in the Gulf of Mexico is clarified by heretofore obscured data on geographic station locations.
24319434|Calculated x-ray powder diffraction patterns from refined crystal structure data indicate that, although the JCPDS data for harite, celestite and anglesite in the Powder Diffraction File are of high reliability, there are several errors in indexing the reflections. Calculated standard scale factors are given for these three minerals.
24320120|One hundred forty-five measurements of the earth's magnetic intensity field in Polk County, Florida, yielded residual anomalies ranging from -300 to +200 nano Teslas. A strong, northwest-trending negative anomaly is flanked on both sides by positive anomalies. The contrast in magnetic patterns is attributed to magnetic effects from the truncated southern boundary of the granitic Avalon Complex in the Florida basement. This boundary, and the magnetic lineations associated with it, may be evidence of a major and presently inactive transpeninsular fault.
24320949|An annotated bibliography is given of the analyses of selenium developed in the last four years. The methods of analyses include spectrophotometry, voltammetry, atomic absorption, and electrophoresis, among others. Most determine total selenium, a few determine inorganic selenium [Se(IV), Se(VI)] and organic selenium (selenocystine, selenomethionine).
24320638|It is suggested that the major source of mercury for the contamination of Florida's biosphere results from the use of mercury in silver refining in Mexico during 1550-1900 A.D. Since Florida is downwind from Mexico, volatilized mercury rained down on Florida (1550-1900) to become immobilized in a large organic mercury sink. However, clearing and burning of underbrush, draining of swamps for large-scale farming, and construction of roadways and living communities over large areas have resulted in air oxidation of organic matter in the mercury sink, liberating mercury to be volatilized back into the atmosphere. This mercury is becoming a problem in Florida's biosphere.
24319728|The first occurrence of Urnatella gracilis Leidy in Florida is reported. Substrate utilization and physicochemical parameters are reported.
24321401|Uranium in drinking water represents a chemotoxic concern as well as a radiotoxic concern, but the mandated reduction in acceptable level of uranium in water to 30 ppb is related to the chemical toxicity of uranium species. The efficacy of Ferrilig, the iron(III) derivative of Octolig (CAS registry number 404899-06-5) was investigated. Ferrilig can be formed by treating Octolig with aqueous ferrous sulfate, then allowing for spontaneous oxidation upon exposure to air to produce the iron(III) derivative. The hydroxide derivative was used as a chromatographic matrix, and the removal of 50 ppb uranium (as uranyl acetate) was tested. At least 99% of the uranium in tap water or well water was removed by a 2-cm id column packed with 22 cm of Ferrilig at a rate of 10 mL/min (3.7 mL/min/cm2). The removal capability of Thorilig, the thorium(IV) derivative of Octolig, was also prepared and tested and was slightly superior to the removal with Ferrilig. Implications of this result are considered. Both derivatives had about the same effectiveness as plain Octolig.
24320257|Food intake of lemon sharks was investigated to determine whether hunger and satiation play a role in their behavior. Lemon sharks (Negaprion brevirostris) were placed under controlled conditions and given a single 45 min feeding trial each day for 95 da. During a trial the sharks were offered preweighed pieces of fish fillet and rate of feeding was individually monitored. A spectral analysis of the intake data revealed a tendency toward 4-day cycles in amount eaten. We suggest that the 4-da cycle reflects an internally mediated biological rhythm. Thus, appetite varies over time and satiation certainly operates in the behavior of lemon sharks.
24319733|Fossilized fish hyperostoses (Tilly bones) are commonly found in Pliocene and Pleistocene deposits throughout Florida; however, the Caloosahatchee marl formation in the vicinity of Port Charlotte is an exceptionally rich source. Neither the function nor the developmental history of Tilly bones are well known. Likewise, the taxonomic affinities of those fossilized bones are poorly understood. Further investigation of fossilized fish hyperostoses could provide a better understanding of prehistoric environmental conditions in Florida.
24321098|Distribution records for gall midges, shore flies, and crane flies in the Florida Keys are presented. The distribution of the black mangrove gall-making midge, Meunieriella avicenniae, in the Florida Keys is reported, as are some notes on the adult morphology. The presence of the kleptoparasite Didactylomyia longimana in the Florida Keys is noted. The shore fly, Brachydeutera neotropica, was found breeding in a sewage treatment plant in Marathon, Vaca Key, Florida. The crane flies Limonia brevivena, L. domestica, and L. floridana are reported from the Florida Keys.
24321111|The rapid expansion and increase of coyotes (Canis latrans) throughout Florida during the last several decades has increased concerns over potential loss of livestock among Florida cattlemen. We surveyed Florida beef cattle producers during 1998 to ascertain their perceptions of coyotes in Florida. We distributed surveys through the Florida Cattleman and Livestock Journal and during the 1998 Florida Cattlemen's Association Annual Convention (Marco Island, FL). Fifty-six surveys, 25 from northern counties and 31 from southern counties, were completed. The number of producers from both north and south Florida reporting loss of calves to coyote predation increased 7-fold from 1992 through 1997. Peak periods of livestock damage by coyotes were reported during November through April in both regions, which corresponded with cattle parturition and mating and pupping by coyotes. The number of cattlemen employing coyote control measures, and the total hours devoted to coyote control, steadily increased from 1992 (3 producers and 5 hours, respectively) through 1997 (31 producers and 843 hours, respectively). The predominant methods of coyote control were firearms (73%) and trapping (27%). The number of coyotes reported killed by ranchers increased from 13 during 1992, to 100 during 1997. Forty-one percent of cattlemen surveyed reported seeing coyotes as solitary individuals, and 54% reported seeing coyotes in small groups of 24. Ninety-eight percent of producers surveyed perceived the number of coyotes in Florida to be increasing, and 69% felt that coyotes were causing a decline in wildlife on their ranches. Ninety-eight percent of the cattlemen surveyed indicated that there was a need for research on coyotes in Florida.
24319956|Eighteen common snook juveniles were grown in salt water and eighteen in fresh water for 105 days. Fillet composition and culinary characteristics were then compared with those of wild snook. No significant differences were found, except that wild snook had less total lipids. Composition of raw fillets was 20-21% protein, 0.5-0.8% total lipids, 0.2% carbohydrate, 1.1% ash, and 77% water. Fatty acids tended to be more saturated than in other species, but total lipid content was very low. Baked snook fillets had a fresh or delicate aroma, bland taste, and a juicy, meaty, firm texture. Fillet yield (skinless, boneless fillet weight/total weight) of 350-g snook was 57%.
24319759|Ultrasonographic measurements were made of skin, fat and muscle depth at selected sites on the trunk and limbs and anthropometric measurements were made of stature, weight and skinfolds in 150 children with diabetes mellitus and in 87 control children matched for age, sex and race. Diabetic children weighed less, were not significantly shorter, had reduced muscle mass and greater adiposity than did control children. These anthropometric and body composition differences are related to diabetes pathology and treatment, diet and activity levels.
24320378|A report of Prunum apicinum Menke (1828) feeding on the calcareous algae Jania pumila.
24319430|Similarity of mother-youth beliefs was compared to the relationship of similarity to youth's feelings of self-estrangement. For 369 motheryouth pairs we attempted to operationalize Cooley's looking-glass model. Data suggest that mother is an historical "mirror" image that influences youth's perception of self and some abstractions that Cooley hypothesized in his model tend to be substantiated.
24321904|The apple snail Pomacea maculata is a recent introduction to Florida from its native range in South America. Little is known about the growth characteristics of apple snails. We measured 18Oaragonite values along the shell growth axis of the non-native, aquatic pulmonate gastropod, Pomacea maculata, to determine its life span and seasonal growth pattern in Florida. Age, growth rate, and season of growth of P. maculata were determined from seasonal temperature fluctuations, inferred from 18O values measured on aragonite drilled along the shell whorl. Eight of the 22 P. maculata lived less than one year, ten slightly longer than one year, and one into its third year. Three snails yielded indeterminate results. Snails from lakes Tulane and Verona deposited the majority of carbonate during late fall/early winter, whereas growth in Newnans Lake was divided across the seasons. Among specimens taken alive, and for which time of death was known, there were offsets along the shell margin with respect to 18O values predicted from 18Olake-water and temperature. The 18Oaragonite of snails raised in temperature-controlled settings, however, was in close agreement with calculated empirical values. Isotopic offsets along the growth margin are probably a consequence of diminished carbonate deposition with increased specimen age.
24320534|An investigation of the prevalence and epidemiology of human head lice (Pediculus humanus capitis) was conducted in the elementary schools of Hillsborough County, Florida during the academic years of 1985-86 and 1986-87. A questionnaire survey of county schools showed that 6.7% of the students (excluding Blacks) were infested in 1985-86. Nearly half of the cases were due to reinfestations. Students in one school were examined 4 times, at approximately 3 month intervals in 1986-87, and answered questionnaires. Ninety-seven (6.4%) of the 1515 White, Hispanic, and Asian students were infested, but none of the 436 Blacks was infested. The distribution of pediculosis in non-black students was significantly influenced by season, sex, hair length, race, family size, crowding in the home, infestation of other family members, socioeconomic level, and mode of transportation to and from school. Classroom activities of students associated with increased lice infestation included using headsets, crowding at tables, and sitting on the floor.
24321649|This study compared optical model predictions to empirical data on light attenuation with respect to numerical water quality targets developed for Lemon Bay, Charlotte Harbor and Estero Bay, Florida. Results suggested that the agreement between observed and predicted light attenuation was segment specific. Observed and modeled data agreed on the proportion of target exceedances in four of twelve segments within the study area. However, there was substantial uncertainty in the predictions over the range of observed Kd. Higher chlorophyll a concentrations seemed to result in over-prediction bias while under prediction bias seemed to result from light attenuating constituents outside the model. Segment specific regressions improved the fit to the observed data only in some cases. That large variability remains in the relationship between the optical model and observed light attenuation is postulated to be due to several sources including; unmeasured non-chlorophyll suspended matter and dissolved organic matter not captured by the current sampling program, the effects of mineral suspended solids on the scattering of light in the water column, the spectral components of light attenuation and measurement error in the observed light attenuation data.
24321186|The present, non-marine herpetofauna of Egmont Key consists of three (possibly four) snakes, two (possibly five) lizards, two turtles, and three frogs. Three species (Cuban Treefrog, Osteopilus septentrionalis; Indo-Pacific Gecko, Hemidactylus garnotii; Cornsnake, Elaphe guttata) are reported for the first time. The Cuban Treefrog and Indo-Pacific Gecko likely arrived with construction material; the sole Cornsnake may have been a released captive. There are no recent records of three species (Green Treefrog, Hyla cinerea; Mole Skink, Eumeces egregius; Eastern Diamond-backed Rattlesnake, Crotalus adamanteus). The Green Anole (Anolis carolinensis), thought extirpated, was resighted in 1998. This species may have recently recolonized or been transported to the island rather than have persisted unseen for more than 90 years.
24321073|Florida scrub is one of the most threatened ecosystems in Florida. There is urgent need for basic research directed toward scrub species if their needs are to be considered in conservation planning. We report the results of a herpetological survey conducted in scrub on Avon Park Air Force Range (APAFR) and the Arbuckle Tract (AT) of the Lake Wales State Forest from May 1994October 1998 using visual surveys, trap arrays, trapping grids, and coverboards. These two areas of scrub are located on ridges of different geologic origin (APAFR, Bombing Range Ridge; AT, Lake Wales Ridge). Forty species were captured on APAFR, and 15 species on AT, where survey intensity was lower. The most commonly trapped reptiles (Anolis carolinensis, Cnemidophorus s. sexlineatus, Sceloporus woodi, and Tantilla relicta neilli) were captured throughout the year with the lowest rates of capture occurring during the coldest months (DecemberJanuary). Captures of amphibians were more seasonal, and included adults moving through scrub to breeding ponds and metamorphs dispersing from ponds. Data on movements of recently metamorphosed gopher frogs (Rana capito aesopus) indicate that peak reproductive activity of this species occurs in winter, as reported for northern populations. Although the herpetofauna in APAFR scrub is generally similar to the fauna reported for the Lake Wales Ridge, the sand skink (Neoseps reynoldsi) and the bluetail mole skink (Eumeces egregius lividus) were not recorded on APAFR despite intensive sampling. Both species were captured on the Arbuckle Tract. These data are consistent with other reports that suggest the two skinks are not found on the Bombing Range Ridge.
24321859|Seagrass monitoring is conducted annually throughout the Charlotte Harbor estuarine complex by the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, Charlotte Harbor Aquatic Preserves office. This program provides baseline, status and trends data of seagrass parameters for assessing estuarine health. Results from 19992009 show the three most common seagrass species throughout the Charlotte Harbor area are Halodule wrightii, Thalassia testudinum and Syringodium filiforme. Seagrass appears relatively stable across the study area with minor declines associated with considerable wet years and hurricane events. Since 2004, the total abundance of all seagrass species, as well as the density of H. wrightii, increased significantly. In 2009, H. wrightii and S. filiforme had the highest mean shoot count in Gasparilla Sound and Lemon Bay. The tidal Peace and Myakka river systems have the lowest occurrence, abundance and densities of seagrass. The maximum depth of seagrass growth has increased since 1999 with San Carlos Bay having the deepest growing seagrass. San Carlos Bay experienced declines in seagrass abundance during high flow events from the Caloosahatchee River. Continued monitoring will be important to track changes, understand potential causes of trends, and to aid in estuarine management so the aquatic preserves can be maintained in an essentially natural condition.
24321095|The SAFE (Strategic Assessment of Florida's Environment) index is an environmental measurement system that covers five areas, i.e., air quality, surface water quality, groundwater quality, water quantity and use, and natural resource protection. For each area, indices have been developed that encompass that area. It appears that another area may help reflect the impact of Florida's expanding population, i.e., the Farm Index. Florida's expanding population must be housed in some way, and it would appear that this is done at the expense of farm land given up for development. Total farm acreage in Florida was obtained from statistical sources and presented in chronological order. The index was calculated as before with 1969 taken as a base year (1969 value = 100). A major problem was obtaining consistent data because the definition of "farm" changed several times over the years.
24321468|Although the Lake Wales Ridge (LWR) has long been recognized as a distinctive geomorphological and biogeographical feature of peninsular Florida, no precise, documented boundary map exists. We provide an ecological boundary map of the LWR based on soils, topography, vegetation, land use, and species distributions. Our boundary is similar to previous maps, but includes the endemicrich LWR State Forest and the Royce Tract of the LWR Wildlife and Environmental Area, and excludes the "Apopk Knob" lowlands. We also find that there is little support for the delineation of the intraridge valley or the Carlton Ranch Ridge of previous authors. We determined the areal extent of post-Columbian xeric upland habitat loss on the LWR based on soils maps overlain on aerial photographs (19791990). Overall, 78% of xeric upland communities on the LWR was lost by 1990; more recent estimates suggest losses of> 85%. Losses were greatest on yellow sands at the northern end of the Ridge, and least on white sands near the southern end. Most LWR edges have been altered by residential and agricultural development. The Lake Wales Ridge, which provides habitat for globally unique and endemic-rich ecosystems, continues to lose wildlands to development. Poster-sized hardcopy and digital versions of the map are available through our website (www.archbold-station.org).
24320028|This annotated bibliography with 316 references represents an initial effort to compile the available material dealing, either primarily or peripherally, with the sand pine scrub community in Florida. The literature survey utilized a computer search of four data bases, a hand search of local libraries, references contained in pertinent articles, unpublished studies and research projects, and resource information from private, state, and federal agencies. References concerning taxonomic botany and faunal associates are for the most part not included.
24312040|Turtle Mound, a shell midden built by the Timucua Indians is now covered by dense vegetation. Many of the dominant species are of tropical origin. Climatic and edaphic conditions have allowed these species to flourish. The remainder of the species on the mound are elements from coastal dune, salt marsh, temperate hammock, mangrove and ruderal communities.
24319879|Female Florida softshell turtles mature at 28-30 cm carapace length and lay up to 5 or 6 clutches of eggs per year between late March and mid-July. Clutch size averages 17.6 (range 9-24), and maximum egg diameter averages 28.9 mm. The incubation period is between 64 and 79 da and is inversely correlated with temperature. Clutch mass relative to body mass may be among the lowest for turtles.
24319548|Range extensions and county records are reported for 8 species of small mammals in Texas.
24320745|Silica gel used for support for supported chelators was tested in water and 42% phosphoric acid for stability. Sieve sizes were measured for control and for samples present in the solvents for one hour. The results indicate slight change in distribution for these conditions confirming the usefulness of this relatively cheap material for use as a support for chelating agents.
24321433|The objective of this study was to determine whether birds avoid edges of 6 small urban forest remnants (2.616.6 ha) in Gainesville, Florida. We compared relative abundances of species and residency groups within winter, spring, summer, and fall in edge (up to 40 m from edge) and interior (beyond 40 m from edge) locations from November 2004 through October 2005. Few species or residency groups avoided the edges; this may be partially driven by similarities in vegetative structure from edge to interior locations. However, the possible avoidance of edges by some fall migrants suggests that the interior of these small urban forest fragments may be of importance to these species during migration.
24320562|The striped mullet (Mugil cephalus Linnaeus), an inshore fish species, is distributed worldwide and forms an important part of the commercial catch in many areas, including Florida. Its geographic range in the eastern Pacific Ocean (northern Chile to central California) has been known for some time, but in the Atlantic Ocean its distribution has been a source of confusion. Evidence is presented to show that in the eastern Atlantic M. cephalus occurs as far south as Ghana (where it evidently is extremely rare) and does not range down to the tip of Africa, as some literature references indicate. In the western Atlantic it is found from New England south as far as the Gulf of Campeche, Mexico. Previous reports of its occurrence throughout the West Indies and along the Atlantic coasts of Central and South America are erroneous.
24321474|Introduced exotic species are a well-recognized problem in Florida's subtropical ecosystems. The presence of the exotic Mayan cichlid (Cichlasoma urophthalmus) was first confirmed in Florida in 1983, when numerous individuals were found in northeastern Florida Bay. Since then, this species has continued to expand its range northward. The capture, beginning in October 2004 to present, of large numbers of Mayan cichlids from central Florida's east- and west-coast mangrove systems north of 28 N latitude is documented here. Mayan cichlids in a wide range of sizes (estimated ages 07 years) at both east- and west-coast sites were collected. In addition, macroscopic examination of gonads showed the presence of developing eggs. The occurrence of multiple age-classes, maturing individuals, cichlid nests, and juveniles, plus repeated collections over a four-year period, indicates that the Mayan cichlid is successfully reproducing and surviving the average winter temperatures in some estuarine waters in central Florida.
24319402|Nineteen (14.6%) of 130 gopher tortoises examined had divided, extra, or missing scutes on the carapace. A relatively high frequency of abnormalities in smaller animals suggests a higher mortality of abnormally-scutellated individuals in the population studied.
24319745|Several buried soils were found in the Apalachicola National Forest in the Florida panhandle. In 2 of these, wood fragments from gymnospermous plants (probably bole) occurred at depths of 1.5 to 1.8 m in a buried soil. These were dated at 4,280 and 7,110 yr old. We believe the mechanism of burial was by aeolian transport and that a xerophytic environment occurred during the period of burial.
24321171|I report on the first recorded specimen of the nonindigenous blue catfish (Ictalurus furcatus) from the Suwannee River in northern Florida. This represents an introduction far to the east of any known Florida populations. The specimen was captured on 23 January 2002 by hook-and-line in the vicinity of Rock Bluff along the border of Dixie and Gilchrist counties. Local anglers have reported additional catches, but these reports are unsubstantiated. Moreover, subsequent sampling for catfish by the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission in 2002 and 2003 did not produce any additional specimens and therefore the persistence and reproduction of blue catfish in the Suwannee River is unconfirmed. The origin of this illegal introduction is unknown.
24320674|Camp Blanding Training Site (CBTS) is a Florida Department of Military Affairs Army National Guard facility encompassing 29,500 ha in western Clay County, northeastern Florida. Land use is divided principally among military training, timber management, and support facilities. CBTS supports a diverse though disturbed landscape of upland, palustrine, and lacustrine natural communities, with xeric to mesic pineland communities predominating. CBTS is within or approached by the ranges of at least 40 rare vertebrate species, as well as several rare invertebrates and vascular plants. We conducted a 13-month survey during 1993-1994 to determine the presence and distribution of rare amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals at CBTS, with additional limited aquatic sampling focusing on fishes and one rare crayfish. We observed 18 species of rare vertebrates at CBTS, including substantial populations of the striped newt, gopher frog, gopher tortoise, red-cockaded woodpecker, southeastern American kestrel, Bachman 's sparrow, Florida mouse, and Sherman's fox squirrel. Most of the rare vertebrates at CBTS are members of two communities naturally dominated by longleaf pinesandhills and longleaf pine flatwoodsor the isolated wetlands contained within them. Unfortunately, remaining tracts of longleaf pine are generally in marginal condition as a result of years of fire suppression that have allowed extensive invasion by hardwood species. Appropriate management of these habitats should include their gradual return to uneven-aged forests dominated by longleaf pine, with prescribed growing season fires used to promote native groundcover production while suppressing hardwood encroachment. Despite decades of past land management practices that often have been incompatible with the maintenance of native communities, CBTS nonetheless retains a significant component of biodiversity native to this region. With the adoption of more ecologically sensitive land management, Camp Blanding may be able to serve as a vital link in a potentially integrated and functional network of inland ecosystems throughout the north Florida-south Georgia region.
24319505|Many lines of low and moderate intensity are newly listed and line(Irel=90) does not belong to paravauxite.
24319440|Three salt formulations of endothall (7 oxabicyclo [2.2.1] heptane2,3-dicarboxylic acid) and a combination of diquat (6,7-dihydrodipyrido [1,2; 2, 1-c] pyrazinodiium ion) and chelated copper were placed in test ponds; dihydroxy aluminum salt of endothall and mono (dimathytridecylamine) oxide of endothall resulted in a significant difference in the amount of organic sediment deposited on the bottom.
24320012|Fishes in the littoral zone of McKay Bay, Florida were sampled by seine from May 1977 through August 1978. Weekly collections were made in May and June 1979, following heavy rains. A total of 23,740 individuals representing 15 families and 31 species was collected. Ten species (Menidia peninsulae, Mugil cephalis, Fundulus similis, Anchoa mitchilli, Leiostomus xanthurus, Harengula jaguana, Lagodon rhomboides, Cyprinodon variegatus, Fundulus grandis, and Pogonias cromis) comprised 97.7% of the catch. Individuals were more numerous from late November to early June than in the remaining months. Species richness was greatest in late spring and summer and least in winter. The most abundant species were either permanent bay residents or juvenile migratory forms that utilized McKay Bay as a nursery area from winter through mid-summer. Growth rates of young-of-the-year migratory forms are presented. Reduced salinities in May-June 1979 apparently caused the exodus of juvenile migratory forms and allowed an increase in abundance of permanent residents.
24321060|Passiflora incarnata, a perennial vine common in disturbed sites in central Florida, produces cyanogenic glycosides as a chemical defense against herbivores. The leaves are palatable, however, to specialist herbivore larvae of heliconiine butterflies including Agraulis vanillae. We investigated six different P. incarnata populations from sunny and partly shady sites to determine if this chemical defense is affected by light availability. In addition, we asked whether plants that had experienced herbivory in the field increased the production of cyanogenic glycosides. From each sun and shade population we collected leaves from plants that had previously experienced herbivory and from plants that had little or no evidence of herbivory, for a total of 251 plants sampled. Although there was significant variability in cyanide production among the six populations, it was not related to light environment. In addition to assaying for cyanide production, we asked whether the performance of Agraulis vanillae is affected by either the site of origin or previous herbivory experienced by P. incarnata. There was some evidence that sun and shade populations have different chemical responses to previous herbivory. Caterpillars tended to eat a greater amount of leaf tissue from branches that had not previously experienced herbivory with this difference being greatest in sun leaves. Caterpillar growth rate, however, was not affected by light availability or previous herbivory.
24321553|The 2006 Central Florida wildfires were investigated using the Fire Area Simulator. The goals of this research were to implement and configure the model, to conduct case studies such as the Areca Palm fire, and to evaluate how this model can be adapted to assist in preventing emergencies in central Florida. The model is a two-dimensional deterministic model for spatial and temporal fire growth. The model validation was focused on comparing observations of wildfires burned area in Central Florida to those fields calculated by the model simulated. The simulated result nearly matched the actual Areca Palm fire movement. The sensitivity experiments properly demonstrated how the fire would move if fuels were dry, if there was no wind, as well as with increased rainfall and cloud cover conditions. The results provided a benchmark of the consistency of fuel parameterization in the model within different weather regimes in central Florida. The model results suggest important cost-saving information for those who perform prescribed burns ($5 to $70 an acre to burn) to prevent wildfires ($500 to $1,600 to fight).
24320640|Mature, viviparous seedlings of Rhizophora mangle L. were harvested from a variety of adult trees and subsequently grown under conditions of ambient natural sunlight, UVb-filtered sunlight, and shade to determine the effects of relative levels of UVb/PAR on early root and shoot development. Growth was generally reduced with exposure to UV, with shoot elongation exhibiting the largest treatment differences among all growth indices. The results suggest that open, exposed environments are suboptimal for the early development of R. mangle upon establishment.
24320761|Recent advances in camera technolgy offer the potential for using camera systems to quickly and accurately investigate gopher tortoise (Gopherus polyphemus) burrows. The results of an investigation of two preserve sites are presented here to illustrate the utility of one camera system. The camera system was able to confirm the status of 97 percent of the burrows (n=208). Burrow size did not pose a constraint to investigation. An average of 30 minutes was required to set-up the system, investigate the burrow, and dismantle the system. Compared to burrow activity status assignments based upon observations of the burrow entrance, the camera system observed fewer burrows to be active and more burrows to be abandoned. All burrow commensals encountered by the camera were identified (to major groups in the case of invertebrates). The camera system has demonstrated utility for accurately censusing gopher tortoise and burrow commensals. Indirect tortoise population estimation methods are more appropriate when accuracy is not critical and time is a factor.
24319709|Axenic clones of Lemna minor (L.) were cultured on Hoagland's I medium with and without 0.2, 0.8, and 2.0 ug/ml abscisic acid (ABA). ABA-induced abscission occurs at all concentrations tested. In general, ABA treatment results in an inhibition of growth and an enhancement of senescence during the first 20% of the life span of the plant. The presence of an abscission zone in Lemna is demonstrated for the first time, and the role of ABA as an inducer of abscission in an intact plant system is clearly shown.
24321794|Long term impacts of external pH on the expression of photosynthetic and structural pigments in Schizothrix calcicola have been investigated in order to establish whether the filamentous cyanobacteria biomarker pigment ratio and/or other pigment ratios in S. calcicola vary significantly in the external pH range of 68 pertinent to most freshwater ecosystems. This would also provide clues to the apparent paradox of aquatic cyanobacteria's preference for alkaline external environments despite their preference for the acidic species of inorganic carbon. More robust cell walls in S. calcicola at pH <7 are suggested by significantly greater expression of structural carotenoids, e.g. myxoxanthophylls. Direct and indirect physiological costs of producing and maintaining these more robust cell walls may contribute to S. calcicola's depressed growth at acidic pH. While the cyanobacterial biomarker ratio of chlorophylls to echinenone was stable across the pertinent pH range of 68, other pigment ratios in S. calcicola were affected by pH with an approximately two week lag between the change of pH and the corresponding change of pigment expression.
24320193|Spatial and temporal patterns of variability were examined (April 1982 - June 1983) for 61 species of surf zone fishes (6,611) at beaches in Melbourne and Sebastian, Florida. The three numerically dominant species, Harengula jaguana, Anchoa lyolepis, and Trachinotus carolinus, comprised over 70 % of all individuals. Temporal and spatial variability at several scales were important aspects of the structure of this fish assemblage. Fishes were most abundant seasonally during spring, summer, and fall (2,659) and least abundant during winter (6). Small scale spatial variability was found on beaches adjacent to the jetties at Sebastian Inlet. Both total number of individuals and species significantly decreased (p<0.05) with increasing distance from the jetty structures. Differences in subtidal habitat heterogeneity between Melbourne Beach and the beaches immediately south of Sebastian Inlet may account for the fact that twenty species were collected at the Sebastian sites which were not found at the Melbourne site.
24319694|The number of species in each extant phylum of animals is an excellent example of the hollow curve of distribution. The Arthropoda comprise 80.0% of all living animal species; and 11, or 29.7% of all animal phyla, have less than 100 living species. The 7 classes of the Mollusca are another example of the hollow curve of distribution. The Gastropoda comprise 79.6% of all living species of molluscs and are the only class found in marine, fresh water, and terrestrial habitats. The Monoplacophora are a relict group, and contrary to what Willis believed, relict groups are not rare. The 5 living classes of the Echinodermata are not a typical example of the hollow curve of distribution.
24320452|Monoecious hydrilla [Hydrilla verticillata (L.f.) Royle] from the Potomac River and American eelgrass (Vallisneria americana Michx.) were grown in monoculture and in mixed culture on aquatic sediments of decreasing fertility to assess their ability to compete for nutrients. Biomass yield in hydrilla decreased with decreasing fertility and increased an average of 45 % when grown intermixed with eelgrass. This was interpreted as evidence of within species competition. Biomass yield only decreased in eelgrass when grown on sand, evidence of lower nutrient requirements than hydrilla. Sediment fertility had little effect on nutrient concentrations in tissues, except that concentrations were depressed when plants were grown on sand alone. Reduced growth of hydrilla was not related to tissue concentrations of measured nutrients. Nutrient accumulation in plant tissues was most closely related to dry weight and was greatest in hydrilla. Potassium accumulation in plant tissues exceeded supplies in sediments indicating potassium uptake occurred from ambient water. Sediment potassium concentrations were increased by plant growth in some sediment treatments.
24319499|Grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella) stocked for aquatic weed control in Lake Baldwin were preyed upon by largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides). Shifts from other prey with a selectivity toward grass carp were found. Implications of changes in the predator prey relationship are discussed. Largemouth bass predation is a factor to be considered when stocking grass carp.
24320421|Quantitative samples of semiterrestrial talitrid amphipods were collected monthly, October 1985 through September 1986, at estuarine Lake Wyman in Boca Raton, Florida. Platorchestia platensis, the most common of four talitrid species collected, was most abundant in the supralittoral zone from October to January and in the midlittoral zone from May to September. Ovigerous females were collected throughout year, although the highest ratio of ovigerous to total adult females occurred in September. Adult females outnumbered males each month except February and September.
24320570|The dechlorination potential of an aerobic bacterial species of Alcaligenes for Aroclor 1242 PCB has been investigated. GC-MS analysis of the dechlorinated products revealed that dechlorination was most effective for the tri- and tetrachloro derivatives and not significant for the penta- and hexachloro derivatives.
24321051|Serenoa repens (Arecaceae) can be found in two distinct color forms: green and "silver." The green form is common throughout the state in pine flatwoods and other upland communities, while the silver form is confined to narrow belts along Florida's Atlantic coast and central ridge. To determine the basis for this color difference we examined the epicuticular wax pattern on the leaf surface, using scanning electron microscopy. We found that in the green form the epicuticular wax formed thin, flat, peeling sheets, while in the silver form the wax formed in thick, irregular patches of fused rod-like extrusions. This striking difference in epicuticular wax accounts for the color difference, but the ecological significance of this feature remains unknown.
24320498|The hydrology, geology, history and vegetation of the Blowing Rocks Preserve is described and the natural plant communities mapped and characterized. The vascular flora of the Preserve consists of 233 species representing 75 families. At least 13 plant species that are endangered, threatened, rare, commercially exploited, or species of special concern were found within the Preserve and at least four species of sea turtles (green, loggerhead, hawksbill, and leatherback) nest on the northern beach.
24320326|A computer simulation model developed to study light attenuation in the ocean was applied to clear, medium turbid and turbid waters under diverse conditions. The model theory is based upon multiple small angle scattering of photons by hydrosols and molecules, and includes the effects of absorption. Results show a striking difference between clear and turbid waters and demonstrate the strong dependence of transmittance on turbidity.
24321075|Lead-isotope ratio measurements of galena samples from three prehistoric archaeological sites in south Florida indicate a close similarity to the isotopic ratios of galena deposits in southeast Missouri. The isotopic provenance determinations provide supporting evidence for the acquisition by native peoples in Florida of exotic materials from distant locations via trade networks.
24321224|In 2000, Big Cypress National Preserve, Florida, took a large step toward managing off-road vehicles (ORVs) for the preservation of natural resources, culminating in publication of a new ORV management plan. This paper describes events and conditions that led the National Park Service to develop the new plan. Photographic images, trail mapping, hydrologie conditions, legislation, and the advent of new technologies are discussed as rationale for restricting the level that ORVs have traditionally been allowed in the first twenty-six years of the preserve's existence.
24320339|Investigation of chlorinated pesticides and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in samples of water and sediment were made near sewage and power plant outfalls, freshwater tributaries, and agricultural runoff canals located along the Indian River between Vera Beach and St. Lucie Inlet. Chlorinated pesticide residues and PCB were not detected in surface water samples. Concentrations of several compounds such as DDT and PCB (Aroclor 1254) were low in sediment samples (<0.1 ppm), although they were detected at least once in most samples. The persistence of malathion and parathion decreased with increasing pH and salinity. When temp was above 26C and salinity above 20 ppt, hydrolysis was the predominant pathway of degradation of malathion and biological interaction was the most significant pathway of degradation for parathion. Industrial chemicals such as trichloroethylene and other volatile organic compounds are currently being monitored in the Main Relief Canal and Indian River at Vero Beach. Background levels of trichloroethylene were low in both water and sediment samples (<0.1 ppb and  0.5 ppb, respectively).
24319612|Halichoeres poeyi is recorded from the Gulf of Mexico and its presence is attributed to the transport of pelagic eggs and larvae from more southerly populations; and H. radiatus is now known to occur at Destin, Florida perhaps by recruitment of individuals from offshore reefs. A second Gulf locality for Oostethus lineatus and a second specimen of Corniger spinosus are also reported.
24321109|The prerequisite for an inquiry into the biogeography of the Georgia barrier islands is an understanding of the geology of the area, including the time and degree of isolation experienced by each island. Although precise data are lacking, there is no evidence to suggest that recent fluctuations of rising sea level have completely inundated any of the Pleistocene core islands. Recently, two papers addressed the biogeography of the Georgia Sea Islands and referred to "different aged islands" (Laerm et al., 1999 and Laerm et al., 2000). The authors mentioned Hoyt's (1968) description of Georgia sea island development, but never gave further consideration as to how that information impinged upon present species occurrences. Without specifically stating it, the authors apparently assumed that all islands were uninhabited (had been inundated) and that the present faunal assemblages are a result solely of each species' ability to colonize across sea water. We disagree with this interpretation and suggest that most of the amphibian and reptile species presently occurring on the larger Pleistocene-core Georgia barrier islands are relict populations that were resident when isolation occurred 4,000 to 5,000 years ago. We present information on the geological and biological history of the islands, examine environmental aspects affecting the herpetofaunas, offer a different hypothesis on the herpetological colonization of the Holocene islands, and correct species misidentifications, incorrect citations, and other mistakes in the Laerm and co-workers' papers.
24319775|Interviews were conducted with parents of chronically-ill children, both within a clinical setting and in their homes. An interest in the coping strategies utilized by such problem families was pursued. A plan for intervention in the form of a self-help-oriented parent's group within the clinic setting is proposed. The group is intended to provide a formal and direct line of communication between parents and clinic personnel. The concept behind the project is interpreted as advocacy anthropology and the function of the anthropologist within the group is considered to be catalytic.
24319466|The large male taken measures 34.6 mm carapace length and 161 mm total.
24320087|Sixty-six species of benthic algae are recorded as epiphytes on the 4 species of seagrasses that form extensive beds in the Anclote estuary near Tarpon Springs, Florida Gulf coast. Monthly field observations and collections were made at 6 representative stations from January to September, 1971. About 65% of all benthic algae that grow attached in the area occur as seagrass epiphytes. Ceramium byssoideum fa. alternatum is newly described.
24321469|We report the species accumulation rate and spatial activity zones of a mostly exotic herpetofauna in a new residential development in southern Florida. Ten species of a possible 24 exotic species were detected in the development in contrast to only five species of a potential 61 native species. In light of the disturbed nature of the pre-exsiting habitat and high vagility of these exotic species we conclude that new residential developments built in disturbed habitats can bring with them a time-saving dimension to exotic species colonization, whereby exotic species-friendly habitat is enhanced through development on land in which the seeds of an exotic herpetofaunal community are already present.
24320164|The Chadwick Beach cotton mouse appears to be extinct. The known specimens were from the coastal forest and adjacent grasslands of Manasota Key. This habitat has been heavily impacted by construction of human residences. However, a mechanism that would have made the remaining woodlots uninhabitable for cotton mice has not been demonstrated.
24320758|I conducted a series of experiments on the effects of azadirachtin (AZA) on tadpoles of the oak toad, Bufo quercicus. These are the first data available on the effects of this pesticide on an amphibian species. LC50 values (96-hr) for various developmental stages exposed to 0.5 mg/L AZA were as follows: 4.41 (stage 12), 4.39 (stage 16), 6.12 (20), 11.34 (24), and 19.62 (30). Percent mortality of various larval developmental stages increased with increasing concentrations of AZA. The highest mortality rate (44%) was recorded for stage 12 tadpoles exposed to 0.50 mg/L AZA. An AZA concentration of 0.30 mg/L had no significant effect on mortality for any developmental stage. Exposure to concentrations of 0.40 and 0.50 mg/L AZA resulted in a significant decrease in percent fertilization success of B. quercicus eggs, and a marked reduction in swimming speed of stage 24 tadpoles. At a concentration of 0.50 mg/L, food consumption by stage 24 tadpoles was significantly reduced. The potential hazard to amphibian populations posed by neem-based compounds is discussed.
24319989|A Sewage Treatment and Bioeffects Laboratory, located in southeast Florida, is described and water quality characteristics of the seawater-diluted wastewaters are compared with reported levels lethal to marine organisms. The laboratory processed incoming untreated (raw) wastewater and yielded six different effluents: primary settled, chemical flocculation, and activated sludge biological secondary settled, each chlorinated and non-chlorinated. Several water quality characteristics of the incoming untreated and biological secondary treated effluent were similar to those of a local sewage treatment plant using ocean outfall disposal. Effluent water quality was monitored for nutrients (NH3, NO2-, NO3-, and PO43-), toxic metals (Cd, Cr, Cu, Pb, and Zn) and synthetic organics (chlorinated pesticides, aldrin, DDE, DDD, DDT, dieldrin, heptachlor epoxide, endrin; polychlorinated biphenyls, Aroclor 1016, 1242, 1254, 1260; and phthalic acid esters, butylbenzyl, butylglycolbutyl, di-butyl, di-ethylhexyl, di-ethyl, di-isobutyl and di-methyl phthalate) using standard analytical techniques. Estimated ambient concentrations of nutrients, toxic metals and synthetic organic compounds, after a 30-fold dilution of primary settled wastewater with seawater, fell below reported levels lethal to marine organisms.
24319748|Observed and calculated X-ray power diffraction patterns are presented for lithiophilite and these should serve as a better reference for identification than data currently in the literature.
24321116|An annotated bibliography of recent developments in selenium remediation is given. Although many different approaches are considered, the most important processes concerning selenium removal from contaminated soils and waters appear to be microbial-induced chemical reactions that transform the existing selenium species into volatile compounds and accumulation by certain plants.
24320412|Rain volume and chemistry monitoring as part of the Kennedy Space Center Long Term Environmental Monitoring Program included the years 1984-1987 as part of the National Atmospheric Deposition Program. Atmospheric deposition in rainfall consisted primarily of seasalt and hydrogen ion, sulfate, nitrate, and ammonium ions. The deposition of nitrogen (a principal plant nutrient) was on the order of 200-300 metric tons per year to the surface waters.
24312042|A sexually mature male Feresa attenuata 207 cm long was discovered alive and taken to the Miami Seaquarium for treatment. Measurements and blood test results were recorded from this first specimen recorded for Florida.
24320736|A total of 32 scaled chrysophytes (20 Mallomonas spp, 7 Synura spp, 2 Spiniferomonas spp and 2 Paraphysomonas spp and 1 Chrysosphaerella sp) in 19 waterbodies from six north-central Florida counties were recorded using TEM. The number of taxa per location varied from 0 to 10. Seven taxa, Mallomonas corcontica, M. dickii, M. elongata, M. leboimei, M. schwemmlei, Synura mammillosa and Chrysosphaerella coronacircumspina, are new records from Florida.
24321184|The herpetofauna of an old-growth southern ridge sandhill site heavily invaded by species from adjacent sand pine scrub was monitored over a 15-year period beginning 52 years after the last fire. Twenty-two species of amphibians and reptiles were captured or observed on a 0.16-ha pitfall grid, and an additional seven species were recorded in similar habitat nearby. The two most frequently captured reptiles (Sceloporus woodi, Cnemidophorus sexlineatus) were xeric-adapted species most characteristic of sandhill habitats burned at normal 110 year intervals, and four other xeric-adapted species (Eumeces egregius lividus, Neoseps reynoldsi, Stilosoma extenuatum, Tantilla r. relicta) accounted for a combined 18.2% of all individuals captured during the study. Species richness and diversity were comparable to more frequently burned sandhill sites, and the only significant trend in the 15-year interval was a modest increase in overall diversity in 198488 and 1994 compared with 197983. Community similarity differed little between time periods. Xeric-adapted species were found in shrub-free openings in greater proportion that expected, and limited data on movements suggested that the large-bodied cursorial xeric species had relatively large home ranges incorporating multiple openings whereas smaller fossorial species had smaller home ranges including single or closely adjacent open patches. The results point to the presence of openings with sparse or no shrub cover as the critical factor allowing persistence of the xeric-specialists in the long unburned site. Consequently, where sandhill or other xeric habitats are developing uniformly dense woody cover and where conditions preclude burning either temporarily or permanently creation of openings by mechanical and/or chemical methods may be an effective management tool for maintaining viable populations of the herpetofauna and other biota characteristic of these habitats.
24321133|Color infrared (CIR) aerial photographs were used to map alligator holes in a 2,442 km2 area (Water Conservation Area 3) of the Everglades. Open-water ponds appeared as clearly defined black spots on the photographs. Three types of alligator holes were identified based on differing CIR signatures: Type 1 holes were encircled by a bright red ring indicating a surrounding zone of woody vegetation (small trees and shrubs); Type 2 holes were not surrounded by a change in pixel brightness or tone, indicating a round open water pond within the existing vegetation matrix without a surrounding ring of woody vegetation; and Type 3 holes were immediately adjacent to elongated red ovals (small tree islands) formed from the construction of spoil banks and are termed "artificial holes." Eight hundred forty-five alligator holes greater than 5 m in diameter were mapped, including 309 Type 1, 331 Type 2, and 205 Type 3 holes. These alligator holes ranged from five to 15 m in diameter and 20 to 150 cm deeper than the surrounding marsh (n = 49). Based on the ground-truthing of 89 mapped alligator holes, 88 percent were successfully located in the field, 83 percent were correctly characterized, and the holes were found within 60 m, on average, of their map coordinates.
24319925|A seismic refraction profile trending northwest-southeast and extending approximately 50 km from Newberry (Alachua County) to Lowell (Marion County), Florida was conducted with quarry blasts as energy sources and portable earthquake seismographs as detectors. The travel time data limited the analysis to a simple 2 layer model with an upper unit velocity of 3.66  0.25 km/sec and a lower unit velocity of 6.25  0.15 km/sec. The upper layer is interpreted to represent the Coastal Plain and underlying Paleozoic sedimentary rock sequence, while the lower layer is considered representative of crystalline basement such as the granitic Avalon Complex. A depth of 3.50  0.2 km is computed for the interface, closely approximating previously published estimates based on gravity data.
24320772|At a sea turtle nesting beach in Boca Raton, Florida, all nests are covered with a wire cage to protect the eggs from beach traffic and predators. The front panel of the cage (facing the ocean) is of larger mesh that allows hatchlings to escape. In this study we determined if cages impede hatchling migration. No effect was apparent at dark beach sites but at illuminated beach areas, hatchlings crawled toward lights behind the beach rather than toward the ocean, and were trapped within the cage. Trapped turtles eventually escaped, either later that evening (as lighting was reduced toward midnight) or at dawn (as natural levels of background illumination increased). However at night, enough lighting remained to attract turtles after they left the cage. At dawn, escaped hatchlings crawled to the sea but were probably vulnerable to visual predators. We conclude that at urban sites exposed to luminaires, cage use compromises hatchling survival. Thus at urban rookeries, caging is only effective if coupled with efforts to eliminate beach-front lighting.
24321415|A total of 10 species of mosquitoes was collected in dry ice-baited light traps on Boot Key, Florida. Collections were made in 1999 and from 2005 to 2007. These appear to be the only published records of mosquitoes from Boot Key.
24321554|The Orinoco Sailfin Catfish (Pterygoplichthys multiradiatus), first discovered in Florida in 1981, has become one of Florida's more successful exotic fishes in terms of their abundance and distribution. This paper provides data collected from 1997 through 2008 to monitor changes in abundance of Orinoco Sailfin and other fishes in southeast Florida canals; and, it also provides information on their food habits, fecundity, lower lethal temperature, and socioeconomic impacts. We also include information regarding the current status of two similar loricariids (Vermiculated Sailfin, P. disjunctivus and Suckermouth Catfish, Hypostomus sp.) which are also established in Florida. Based on these data we conclude that Orinoco Sailfin Catfish have not had major detrimental effects on the principal native fishes in southeast Florida canals.
24319876|X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS or ESCA) has been employed to determine the relative dispersion of a series of alumina and carbon supported platinum and palladium catalysts. The metal/support ratio (R) as determined by measuring the intensities of selected photoelectron lines (eg. Pt(4d5/2) and Al(2s)) is related to the extent of metal dispersion. If the relationship between R and the metal loading (weight %) is linear and passes through the origin, the relative dispersion of the series is equivalent. Evaluation of R for a standard series of catalysts provides a means for screening the activity of a catalyst.
24319486|Fishes along the beaches of Pinellas County, Florida, were sampled by beach seine during 1970 and 1971. A total of 228,667 individuals representing 30 families and 62 species was collected. Individuals were most abundant in April and September and least abundant in January and February. Several species were more numerous in July through September than in the remaining months. Species diversities fluctuated throughout the year. Ten species (Harengula jaguana, Anchoa hepsetus, A. mitchilli, Menidia beryllina, Menticirrhus littoralis, Opisthonema oglinum, Menticirrhus focaliger, Trachinotus carolinus, T. falcatus, and A. cubana) comprised 97.7% of the total number of individuals. The fishes were relatively small; most individuals were less than 100 mm total length.
24320952|Typha, a genus with widespread distribution in the United States, is a nuisance aquatic plant because of its ability to take over marshes and other freshwater environments usually to the extent of becoming monospecific. Many physiological characteristics contribute to this opportunistic invasion (size, growth habits, etc.) but release of allelopathic compounds into its surroundings seems to be an important mechanism in the encroaching of cattails at the expense of other plants. This annotated bibliography summarizes the chemistry of Phytotoxins produced by cattails, Typha spp. and release of Phytotoxins into the environment as the key to understanding its allelopathic behavior.
24319569|Colonial animals comprise slightly less than 1.0% of all of the extant species of animals and are restricted to a marine or fresh-water environment.
24321674|Phototaxis of zooplankton in the Indian River Lagoon (IRL) was investigated using light traps. Traps were deployed on two occasions, with six narrow bandwidth spectra supplied by light emitting diodes (LEDs: white, UV, blue, green, yellow and red). Simultaneous replicated plankton tows were collected from the nearby water column for comparison. Taxa found only in light traps included cumaceans, caprellid amphipods, isopods, planulae and larval fish, including juvenile flatfish and pipefish. Mysid shrimps (Mysidiopsis spp.), cumaceans (Cyclaspis sp.), megalopae (Rhithropanopeus harrisii), crab zoeae (R. harrisii), cyprids (likely Balanus eburneus), and gastropod veligers (unidentified species) showed significant positive phototactic responses. Phototaxis was species-specific, although all responding species responded to green light (peak transmission 501 nm). Response distance estimates ranged from 1.53 to 3.23 m and differed based upon species, habitat (water column vs. benthos) and color of light. Demersal (benthic) responders were estimated to come from shorter distances than planktonic organisms.
24320099|Chemical, physical and biological composition of the secondary effluents from municipal treatment plants is reviewed.
24319559|Aquatic macrophytic vegetation and chlorophyll content of phytoplankton were studied in two natural ponds, a natural lake and a borrow pit to determine effects of grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella Val.) introduction. Macrophytes were reduced in all study areas after grass carp introduction and several native species were eliminated although they remained where protected from grass carp. Chlorophyll a, b, and c content increased although generic richness of phytoplankton declined after introduction.
24321720|The hypothesis that the lure of a batfish emits chemical attractants to attract carnivorous, scavenging gastropod prey was tested for the polka-dot batfish Ogcocephalus cubifrons, on Nassarius vibex, a common gastropod that emerges from the substrate to scavenge. Water samples collected from the anterior region of actively luring batfish quickly elicited an emergence response from the snails, whereas samples taken from the same region of non-luring batfish elicited only a minimal response. The results provide the first experimental evidence of the presence of a chemical attractant which may be utilized by O. cubifrons to attract N. vibex. as well as other gastropod prey species.
24321823|This report summarizes the results of a geologic investigation designed to identify the factors responsible for the accumulation and preservation of a late Pleistocene coastal bone bed discovered during habitat restoration at the Pine Island Conservation Area (PICA), Brevard County, Florida. Paleo-environmental analysis of subsurface data suggests these processes were initiated subsequent to the 125 ka (thousand years before present) sea-level high stand as sea level lowered by more than 100 m. During this interval, the shell-rich sediments which had accumulated along the paleo-Atlantic shoreline of PICA were subject to intervals of dissolution and cementation. This led to the formation of coquina (shelly limestone) and a karst landscape replete with sinkholes and other dissolution features. Faunal remains accumulating in these depressions were less likely to be disturbed by the sub-aerial process of weathering and erosion. Their preservation potential was further enhanced when submerged by anoxic groundwater during the subsequent rise in Holocene sea level. The coquina at PICA is part of the Anastasia Formation, which has been mapped along much of the east Florida coast. So too have other late Pleistocene coastal bone beds and thus their formation and preservation may have been facilitated by the same geologic processes proposed at PICA.
24320325|Shoal grass, Halodule wrightii Aschers, is the dominant species of submerged marine vascular hydrophyte in the Indian River Estuary, Florida. Dissolved oxygen, temperature, salinity, pH, and redox potential or Eh measured over time gave evidence that shoal grass has resiliency and stability in the face of a major storm. Copper uptake by Halodule leaves was measured, and translocation of Cu through the plant to roots occurred. Monitoring of Cu in nearshore seagrass communities will directly reflect any abnormal amounts of metal into these systems.
44113157|Florida cattle ranches provide important habitat for the Florida panther (Puma concolor coryi), but rancher support of panther recovery efforts is influenced by the real and perceived risks that panthers present to livestock. Understanding rancher's attitudes towards panther recovery and potential compensation programs for livestock loss are important components of panther recovery efforts. We conducted a survey of Florida ranchers to: (1) evaluate the perceived risk of panthers and other predators; (2) evaluate perceived calf loss trends; (3) measure support for panther recovery; (4) measure support for different types of compensation and payment for ecosystem services programs; and (5) evaluate what factors influence support for those programs. We designed an Internet survey and administered surveys to Florida cattle ranchers through emails sent out by the Florida Farm Bureau and the University of Florida Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences livestock extension agents. Although results of the survey should be interpreted with caution due to low response rate, the majority of respondents supported panther recovery efforts, believed coyotes (Canis latrans) posed the greatest risk to calves, reported a yearly average calf loss of 5%, and indicated preference for a program that provided direct payments for calf loss to panthers.
24319609|Composition and derivation of the North American freshwater fish fauna is reviewed with reference to new fossil discoveries. Acceptance of the theory of continental drift has changed ideas regarding the derivation of this fauna and its relationship to that of Central and South America. Composition of the North American fish fauna is markedly different east and west of the Continental Divide north of the Mexican Plateau, although this difference was less pronounced before renewed uplifting of the Rocky Mountains began about 20 million yr ago, and several families now restricted to eastern drainages are known as fossils from western drainage areas. Six faunistic groups are defined and discussed in reference to origin of the extant fauna.
24320550|Limited data are available on the effects of the December, 1989 freeze on fishes of Indian River Lagoon, Florida. Air and water temperature data for this event are compared with data from 3 prior freezes in the last 2 decades. While air temperatures were clearly lower in 1989, water temperatures did not reach the extremes of previous events. Collection records for Rivulus marmoratus, a tropical killifish inhabiting high marsh habitats along Indian River Lagoon in Brevard and Indian River Counties, are compared before and after the 1989 freeze. An apparent impact on R. marmoratus populations is documented. Additional collection records are cited on both coasts of the state, adding to the distribution records for this little-known species.
24321563|The purposes of this study were to create an updated vegetation map for Florida and to measure land use change over a 1418 year period. We used Landsat Enhanced Thematic Mapper+ satellite imagery from 2003 to map Florida vegetation and land cover. We then compared the 2003 data with an earlier digital data set derived from 198589 Landsat imagery. About 611,845 ha of natural and semi-natural cover types were converted to urban or other developed uses, and 703,292 ha were converted to agricultural uses. About 355,437 ha of agricultural and pasture lands were converted to urban or developed uses over this 1418 year period. Pinelands experienced the greatest decline in total area with about 243,508 ha having been converted to other uses. Dry prairie experienced the greatest decline in percent area with about 25% of the area existing in 198589 converted to urban, developed, or agricultural uses by 2003. Upland cover types experienced greater declines than wetland types over the study period. Natural and semi-natural cover types were lost at a rate of 73,06393,938 ha per year, and agricultural lands declined at a rate of 19,74625,388 ha per year over this period.
24321207|Studies were conducted to assess the effect of group living early in life on brain development (cortical depth), locomotor activity, and spatial learning in males of Ochrotomys nuttalli, as compared to animals (single family groups, SFG) whose mothers had litters comprised of only one offspring and who only had contact with their maternal parent. Animals reared with related and unrelated adults and young (multiple family groups, MFG) were born in nests containing from 68 individuals and were thus exposed to a more complex early rearing environment with an increased variety of olfactory, visual, and tactile cues. There was a significant effect of environmental complexity on body weight, brain weight, and cortical thickness (at 3 months of age) between the single and multiple family groups. Subjects from the MFG exhibited a significantly higher level of running wheel activity as compared to SFG subjects. In addition, MFG animals showed a significantly improved level of performance in spatial learning ability in an 8-arm radial maze.
24320969|In Florida, female southeastern myotis (Myotis austroriparius) typically bear and rear their young in large maternity colonies in select caves. Because these maternity caves are rare and southeastern myotis females congregate in them each spring and summer, protection of the caves is important to the conservation of this species. Southeastern myotis maternity colonies have been reported from at least 19 Florida caves, but in 1991 and 1992 we found maternity colonies in 9 caves containing approximately 319,000 adults. Previous surveys found maternity roosts almost exclusively over water, but bats roosted over water in only 3 caves during our survey. Most caves showed evidence of past flooding, but risk of flooding was not significantly correlated with presence of maternity colonies. Of the 10 maternity caves we found unoccupied, all but 1 had entrances closed by landowners, the surrounding forest cleared, or showed evidence of vandalism. Failure of a roost to produce volant young was significantly associated with vandalism in caves. We suspect maternity colonies moved to new roosts following disturbance in their preferred caves, but lack of regular surveys and the potential movement of bats among caves precluded accurate assessments of trends in the number of occupied maternity caves or size of the maternity colonies. Our data suggest that the number of Florida caves that are both undisturbed by humans and suitable as maternity roosts for southeastern myotis is decreasing. We recommend that current and former maternity caves be protected from vandalism and that access into the caves be restricted during the maternity season.
24320734|The Florida dairy industry consists of 180,000 cows located on fewer than 300 farms. Most farms have 300500 cows while most dairy cows in the state are concentrated on farms with over 1000 cows. These confined animal operations produce large amounts of waste in manure and each farm must have a means of storing and utilizing it safely. In 1993, the Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences at the University of Florida conducted a statewide survey of 66 dairy farmers to determine how many were managing waste using best management practices. We found that most dairies in the state do not monitor the amount of waste that is generated or disposed of on the farm. However, depending on the size and location of the dairy, the majority of cows in the state are located on farms that utilize BMPs.
24320739|The collection of two A. jamaicensis on Key West, Monroe County, Florida, an adult female on June 1, 1995 and an immature female on March 23, 1996, provides the first well-documented record of Artibeus jamaicensis in the United States. A review of the cumulative evidence suggests that Artibeus jamaicensis is established in Lower Keys of Florida.
24319577|After a predator fish (Esox niger) was stocked in a 0.23 ha New Jersey pond, there occurred a decrease in population size and standing crop of bluegill (Lepomis macrochirus), an increase in abundance and standing crop of largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides), and an increase in the potential harvestability of the fish community. Schumacher-Eschmeyer population estimates for bluegill indicated a 72.9% decrease in abundance 1 yr after stocking chain pickerel (Esox niger). At the same time, largemouth bass increased 22.2% in abundance. Standing crop of bluegill decreased 49.2%; that of the largemouth bass increased 24.4%. Biological balance (F/C) decreased from 9.5 - 2.1 and potential harvestability (At) increased from 38.1 - 76.5% from 1970 to 1972.
24320517|This article describes the use of a soil vacuum extraction (SVE) as an engineering control to limit worker exposure to volatile chemicals; the method was applied during the excavation of contaminated soils. SVE was used at a manufacturing facility located in the subtropics during the construction of a concrete spill containment area. During the initial phase of construction, workers uncovered contaminated soils that released elevated concentrations of volatile organic chemicals and hydrogen sulfide gases. Under normal conditions, personal protection equipment that deliver either bottled or clean ambient air would have been used by site workers to complete construction. In contrast, soil gases were intercepted with wells that were screened above the water table, pumped through an explosion proof blower, and discharged downwind. As a result, gas concentrations were dramatically reduced and the work was completed without the aid of respiratory equipment.
24319882|An automated turbidimetric method for analysis of sulfate in saline water samples was evaluated. Dilution of samples to yield a salinity of 1  or less was required to eliminate ionic strength effects. The initial concentration of a saline sample requiring 1:100 dilution cannot be < 1000 mg liter-1 SO4-2 (10 mM), for a precision of 2-5% and an accuracy of 2-5%. The limit of detection, expressed as initial concentration of sample to be diluted 1:100, was 150 mg liter-1 SO4-2 (1.6mM). The method requires only 100 l of saline porewater or seawater. Fifty samples can be analyzed in an 8-hr day with 2 replicates per sample and 3 standard curves.
24319865|A brief summary of the Florida Scientist and the predecessor volumes is given. Three changes in name have occurred, and there have been 13 editors in fifty years.
24319607|Statements made at the U. N. Sixth Special Session, April, 1974, were coded according to the general causes for world economic problems mentioned, and for the solutions proposed. Existence of a Third World Consensus was then tested by comparing attitudinal positions against the U. N. categories: developing market economies (developing nations); developed market economies (western nations); and non-market economies (communist nations). Causes mentioned demonstrated significant consensus among developing nations and significant differences between developing and western or Communist nations respectively; differences within the Third World on the basis of economic status were not significant; the same was true of 3 of the 7 general solutions proposed; and 3 of the remaining specific solutions proposed by developing nations differed from proposals by developed nations.
24320488|Stylisma abdita is a rare endemic confined to sandhill and scrub habitats in the Florida peninsula. In much of its range the species is endangered by urbanization. Exact localities are given for the species in the southwestern Florida counties of Collier and Lee, from which areas the species will soon be extirpated. Phenology and species associates are also discussed.
24321069|Two stalagmites from the Florida Caverns at Marianna were dated using uranium series methods (230Th/234U). Both grew rapidly, one 73,000  5,000 years ago, and the other 53,000  7,000 years ago. The ground waters from which they precipitated carried U with different 234U/238U activity ratios, and the two exhibited different initial 230Th/232Th contamination ratios, as revealed by the isochron method of age correction. The times of growth of the Florida Cavern speleothems do not appear to have been governed by glacial and climatic cycles as is the case for those in higher latitudes.
24320673|Clearnose skates, Raja eglanteria, were trawled in 1993 and 1994 from the western Atlantic Ocean off Shackleford Banks, Carteret County, North Carolina. Aspects studied were: age and growth, food, environmental features, body surface areas and several body-organ weight and morphometric relationships. New data expand prior information on this common yet neglected skate. ANOVA analyses, by sex and year, did not substantiate specimens from two populations being sampled. Females were heavier than males and possessed slightly shorter tails than did males, even with increasing total lengths. Female disk widths were slightly smaller than in males. Male surface areas were larger than those of females. Clearnose skates were apparently more active than previously believed. A variety of foods were eaten.
24321197|White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus seminolus) inhabiting the wet prairie and tree island habitats of the Florida Everglades were subjected to a severe flood in the fall and winter of 199495. Water levels in the study area peaked at 1.3 m in January 1995, more than double the 0.6-m level that restricts deer mobility, and forced surviving deer to crowd onto the slightly elevated (1 m) tree islands. Of 51 radio-collared deer (1 year in age) being monitored in Big Cypress National Preserve and Everglades National Park at the onset of flooding in November 1994, 25 (49%) had died by 31 March 1995. Two of the dead deer, a 3-yr-old female and a 2-yr-old male, had symptoms typical of actinomycosis or lumpy jaw, which is manifested clinically by severe osteomyelitis of the mandibles. The disease likely was caused by malnutrition and gum injuries incurred from consuming woody forage on the tree islands to which the deer were confined. These apparent cases of lumpy jaw are the first reported from white-tailed deer in Florida.
24320547|The first specimen of the eastern big-eared bat, Plecotus rafinesquii, taken in southern Florida, was recorded roosting in an old cabin in northeastern Collier County, a short distance south of the Seminole Indian Reservation. It was an adult female, and this occurrence extends the known range of the eastern big-eared bat significantly southward from central Florida to the Big Cypress Swamp region of south-western Florida.
24322139|A high resolution, three-dimensional numerical circulation model with flooding and drying capabilities is used to simulate the Hurricane Charley storm surge in the Charlotte Harbor vicinity. The model-simulated surge is in sufficiently good agreement with observations at four stations for which data exist to allow us to use the model to explain the surge evolution and to account for the inlet breach that occurred at North Captiva Island. Despite Charley being a Saffir-Simpson category 4 hurricane the surge was only of nominal magnitude and hence the damage, while severe, was primarily wind-induced. We explain the relatively small surge on the basis of the direction and speed of approach, the point of landfall to the south of Boca Grande Pass and subsequent translation up the estuary axis, and the collapse of the eye radius as the storm came ashore. These inferences are based on lessons learned from hypothetical hurricane storm surge simulations for Tampa Bay. Under other approach scenarios the potential for hurricane storm surge in the Charlotte Harbor may be catastrophic.
24320335|The St. Lucie Inlet offers a unique opportunity to study the dynamic response oj a coastal tidal inlet to the construction oj an improvement project. A history oj the St. Lucie Inlet has been assembled, and aerial photography is being jlown throughout the project construction. Hydraulic measurements obtained prior to and during project construction document the original inlet conditions, and analysis oj the inlet stability indicates that the St. Lucie Inlet was hydraulically unstable. Construction oj the improvement project is nearing completion. A period oj readjustment will jollow, with the natural forces establishing equilibrium inlet and shoreline configurations.
24319506|Collection of single or multiple cores for the purpose of measuring mud and/or water Eh potentials in estuarine sediments similar to those encountered in northwest Florida estuaries is simplified by new modifications to corer design to reduce fabrication costs and facilitate collection and analysis of samples.
24321465|This study used a self-administered questionnaire (n = 249) to examine factors that affect risk perceptions and acceptance of the American crocodile (Crocodylus acutus) in south Florida. Respondents who expressed negative attitudes toward American crocodiles had the greatest probability of considering the species a high risk to humans. Respondents who believed American crocodiles presented a low risk to humans, and expressed positive attitudes toward the species, had the greatest probability of preferring a stable or increased future crocodile population. Knowledge of American crocodiles was not related to risk perceptions, but may indirectly affect risk perceptions through attitudes toward crocodiles. Demographic variables did not relate to risk perceptions or acceptance of American crocodiles. Results indicate that south Florida residents and visitors who have the potential to encounter an American crocodile generally have low risk perceptions of, favorable attitudes toward, and high acceptance capacity for the species.
24319700|We compared fish populations in Lake Conway, Florida by 3 methods for species abundance, composition, and species diversity. Sampling was from May through September 1976 in both vegetated and man-made beach habitats. Eleven species had strong affinities with vegetation, whereas 7 species were most common on beaches. The ichthyofauna associated with vegetation represents a climax and was more unique, more diverse, more evenly distributed in terms of individuals of each species, and more productive in terms of biomass. Beach fishes represent a seral community which is typified by a less distinct and diverse, but more numerous assemblage.
24319880|Late dry-season removal trapping in several wetland habitats of the southwestern Florida flatwoods caught only Peromyscus gossypinus and Sigmodon hispidus: 1.7 Peromyscus per 100 trap nights in a cypress strand and only 0.2 Sigmodon in both the cypress and a melaleuca swamp. In another melaleuca forest and its adjoining graminoid area, we caught no animals after 600 trap nights. Results suggest poor utilization of melaleuca habitats but do not indicate appreciably greater utilization of associated non-melaleuca habitats.
24320455|Edaphic algae were identified from five soil samples collected at one time from untreated acid sands and from slightly acid sands that had been limed and fertilized. The study methodology, which included culturing and close observations of each isolated species, yielded 17 green algae, 5 blue-green algae, 5 diatoms, and 1 green euglenoid. Numbers of taxa found in the limed and fertilized plots were similar to those found in the untreated soils.
24321910|The Green Iguana (Iguana iguana) is a successful colonizing species of southern Florida where it poses potential threats to both flora (through the spreading of exotic seeds) and fauna (by opportunistically eating eggs). Individuals exploit exotic, flowering plants found in urban areas, which in turn serve to disperse non-native plants. In this study, the home ranges of wild iguanas in southern Florida were estimated using the minimum convex polygon and were compared to literature sources to determine the extent to which these introduced populations could be sources of exotic seed dispersal. The data demonstrated that home range sizes of iguanas in Florida were significantly smaller than those found in their native range, perhaps a response to a nearly predator-free environment and an abundance of food. Although individuals still spread seeds throughout their home range and possibly farther during nest migrations and dispersing young, distances may not be long enough to have impacted nearby natural areas. Green Iguanas may reinforce existing exotic plant populations rather than spread them.
24320950|The southern dusky salamander (Desmognathus auriculatus) was found commonly at the Devil's Millhopper, Alachua County, from the 1950s through the early 1970s. On 12 survey trips between April 1996 and March 1997, no salamanders were found despite intensive sampling. Although the habitat appears ideal for this species, it is now extirpated at this location. Although extensive land use changes have occurred around the site, the cause of the extirpation is unknown.
24321676|Water quality and seagrass data collected from 1990 to 1999 for the Southern Indian River Lagoon (SIRL) were evaluated for a correlative link between water quality and the deep edge of seagrass bed depth and to use water quality at sites with the deepest edge of bed depths to establish water quality targets for protecting and restoring seagrass. Spearman's rank correlation revealed significant relationships between several water quality parameters and deep edge of seagrass bed depth. Color, turbidity, and light attenuation (K) were inversely correlated with edge of bed depth; while salinity and pH were directly correlated. Additionally, light attenuation (K) was significantly (p < 0.001) correlated with turbidity and color. The 25th and 75th percentiles for water quality parameters (associated with seagrass sites supporting the deepest edge of bed depths) were used to establish water quality targets for the SIRL: salinity (28.3 ppt), turbidity (4.6 NTU), color (13 PCU), and K (-1.0 m-1).
24319918|Ground surface populations of scorpions, pseudoscorpions, and opilionids were studied for one year using pitfall traps set in pond pine, sand pine scrub, and flatwoods communities in central Florida. Forty-two scorpions (1 species), 41 pseudoscorpions (5 families and 6 species), and 248 opilionids (2 families and 3 species) were collected.
24321425|The cellulosic material of choice for industrial applications, such as biofuels, has always been acid-pretreated Maize. Using pretreated corn as the substrate in biomass hydrolysis research, not only has adverse environmental effects, but also competes with a major human food source in years of modest harvest. For states in the Southeast, such as Florida, a similar process, where corn is used as the substrate, is far from being economically feasible. Therefore, local crops or agricultural residues, such as sugarcane bagasse, offer a more attractive alternative. The experiment reported here evaluated the cellulose decomposing potential of Thermomonospora fusca, Cellulomonas fimi and Cytophaga hutchinsonii in Vitro, using sugarcane bagasse without pretreatment. Several indicators of degradation, including residue decomposition and total reducing sugars and protein were monitored over a period of one year. Overall, T. fusca outperformed the other two microorganisms. In the T. fusca cultures, 5% more reducing sugars (p < 0.05) and 15% more protein (p < 0.05) were released, compared to the other two microorganisms. The results of this bench-scale study on non-treated sugarcane bagasse are promising with regard to transferring this environmentally friendly process to full-scale field applications.
24321119|Melaleuca quinquenervia and Casuarina spp. invade sawgrass prairies low in occurrence of mycorrhizal infection and nitrogen-fixers. The presence of mycorrhizae associated with roots of M. quinquenervia and Casuarina spp. was investigated in three populations of each species in Everglades National Park, as was the presence of nitrogen-fixing nodules on roots of Casuarina spp.. Both M. quinquenervia and Casuarina spp. were found to be infected by vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (VAM), and Casuarina spp. roots from all sites were nodulated. VAM infection rates did not differ among Casuarina spp. stands, but did differ among M. quinquenervia stands. Casuarina spp. seedlings showed better growth on soils from the interior of the Casuarina spp. stand, than on soils from the surrounding sawgrass prairie. Mycorrhizal associations with M. quinquenervia and Casuarina spp. and Casuarina's ability to fix nitrogen could alter plant community composition in this region.
24320131|While sampling various plant communities in north Florida for clearwing moths (Family Sesiidae) in 1985, using sex-pheromone attractants, three new state records were captured. These are the tree borers, Synanthedon tabaniformis, Synanthedon proxima and Synanthedon castaneae.
24319778|Excavations conducted in a portion of the Fort Brooke site located in downtown Tampa revealed no subsurface structural remains of the fort-period; however, several fort-period artifacts were recovered. These findings, revealed in a context of modern disturbance, provide some substantiation to the evidence available in historical documents. The nature of the archaeological evidence at the site demonstrates the nearby location of the Fort, as well as some of the circumstances of its existence. During the excavations a relatively intact aboriginal shell midden was also encountered. This aboriginal component consisted of lithic tools and debris, along with animal remains and pottery, and it tentatively associated with the late Weeden Island cultural period.
24319929|The relationship between manatees and power plants was investigated at 2 power plants on the Indian River in Brevard County, Florida from January 1978-February 1980. Manatee presence in the power plant effluent zones was correlated with cold air and water temperatures. When air temperatures were below 16C most manatees in the county were found in the effluent zones. Manatees in the effluent zones moved with the wind-blown warm water plume, demonstrating a sensitivity to small changes in water temperature. Some individuals were frequently resighted at 1 plant, while others moved between the 2 plants. Because industrial warm water sources are less reliable than natural warm water refuges, it is recommended that no new artificial warm water effluents be constructed north of the species' traditional winter range.
24321722|Interception records for three exotic snail species are presented. Granodomus lima (Frussac), Caracolus caracolla (L.) and Bulimulus guadalupensis (Bruguire) were intercepted on crushed vehicles entering Florida by barge from Puerto Rico. Other alternate pathways for the introduction of mollusks are discussed.
24321417|The history and properties of RDX (cyclotrimethylenetrinitramine, 1,3,5-trinitro-1,3,5-triazine), a popular high explosive are reviewed and considered as a guide to the removal of this material from Florida soils.
24320390|Three herbaceous species (Lechea deckertii, L. cernua, and Paronychia chartacea) appeared in postbum samples of plots in rosemary scrubs, that were rare or absent in preburn samples of the same plots and were also rare in samples of plots in unburned scrubs. Changes in cover levels with stand age suggest that these species are displaced by the increasing cover of rosemary and reindeer lichens within 9 to 12 years, their populations then being rejuvenated by periodic fires.
24321793|In many mammals with a polygynous mating system in which males compete for access to breeding females, large body size is more important for male than female reproductive success. Sex-differences in the relative size at sexual maturity could result in selection for bimaturation and sexual size dimorphism with females maturing earlier and males being larger. Growth in body length (BL) of free-ranging Florida black bears (Ursus americanus floridanus) was examined with mathematical models to test hypotheses regarding bimaturation and sexual size dimorphism in this polygynous species. Data for 399 females and 615 males indicate that growth in BL fitted the von Bertalanffy model better than Gompertz and Logistic models. Truncating the data revealed that individuals  3 years old affected the maturing index (K) and those older influenced asymptotic body length (BL). Males had smaller K and BL 1.23 times longer than females (p < 0.05) signifying an older age at physiological maturity. Growth was essentially complete after attaining > 90% of BL, a level reached by females at 2 years-of-age about 1.3 years earlier than males. Males grew larger than females before and after female sexual maturity suggesting selection for traits that enhance reproductive success. Females grew more slowly than males after reaching sexual maturity indicating greater energetic expenditure associated with parturition and rearing offspring that constrain body size growth. My models provide a basis for future efforts to assess the food requirements of Florida black bears and to detect warning signs of a population that may be experiencing nutritional stress.
24322462|Natural mortality is a poorly known aspect of fisheries biology, despite its importance in stock assessments and population analysis. Of potential sources of mortality and morbidity in fishes, the effect of internal parasites is perhaps the least studied even though these organisms are known to inhibit nutrient uptake and stimulate an inflammatory response in fish. Parasite taxa of the pelagic elasmobranchs silky and night sharks and pelagic stingray (Carcharhinus falciformis, C. signatus and Pteroplatytrygon violacea), and the mesopelagic teleosts sailfin lancetfish, oilfish, snake mackerel, escolar and Atlantic pomfret (Alepisaurus ferox, Ruvettus pretiosus, Gempylus serpens, Lepidocybium flavobrunneum, and Brama brama) are described from the western North Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico. Parasite taxa included cestodes, trematodes, acanthocephalans, and nematodes. Suggested protocol revisions to current accepted laboratory methods will enhance future parasite taxa descriptions from pelagic marine fishes. This work serves as the first parasite taxa and load descriptions for pelagic stingray, lancetfish, oilfish, snake mackerel, escolar and pomfret.
24320472|Brazilian pepper (Schinus terebinthifolius) has become an aggressive exotic angiosperm competitor in native southern Floridian habitats over the past few decades. Few environmental limitations to growth and reproduction of this problem exotic seem to exist. However, a native parasitic angiosperm, Cassytha filiformis, has been noted parasitizing Schinus terebinthifolius; field observation indicates that this parasite may not necessarily limit Schinus' vegetative growth in height, but may significantly limit its foliage production and reproductive capacity.
24320345|Low altitude aerial photography coupled with groundtruthing, was used to delineate seagrass beds, oyster bars, and other shallow water (<2.5 m) features in 3 contiguous east-coast Florida lagoons. Imagery analysis was used to produce maps, representing 182 km2 of grassbeds, 10km2 of oyster bars, and 16 km2 of dredged areas. Five areas, in 3 contiguous lagoons, were photographed in the spring of 1974 and winter of 1975. The areas and time of year were selected because of increased water clarity. Direct examination of color infrared transparencies over a light table proved to be the most effective method for delineation of submerged features.
24319660|Three hundred and seven measurements of the magnetic field with a proton precession magnetometer in Alachua County, Florida, yielded total intensity values of 50,06751,035 gammas. All values were tied to a single hase station and were corrected for diurnal variations. A regional trend reveals a westward dip of approximately 30 gammas/km and may reflect the flank of the Florida Peninsular Arch. Removal of the regional trend from an isomagnetic surface isolates residual magnetic anomalies ranging from -40 to 120 gammas. Interpretations of the local anomalies suggest mafic dikes and horizontal susceptibility contrasts within the Paleozoic basement rocks of north Florida. These features are consistent with previous concepts of diabase intrusions and graben structures which originated in the Florida basement during the early Mesozoic.
24319544|Nearshore current measurements in 10 m of water off Hutchinson Island on Florida's central east coast were obtained over 40 da. Data analyses reveal independent alongshore and crosshelf systems of subinertial waves superimposed on a weak southward, essentially alongshore mean current. The crosshelf current fluctuations appear to be wind driven, while only the 2-2.8 da along-shore current fluctuations are coherent with windstress.
24319602|The presence of an undescribed troglobitic crayfish in the St. Johns River drainage suggests that endemic populations of Florida troglobites and some fishes may be the result of the same geological phenomena.
24322277|During field surveys in May and June 2004, we confirmed the existence of the non-native butterfly lizard (Leiolepis belliana) in Miami, Miami-Dade County, Florida. We found L. belliana active during the daytime in an area encompassing six square city blocks, where it was observed basking and foraging on open grassy lawns and inhabiting burrows. The population of L. belliana originated from a tropical fish dealer and has been established there since at least 1992. If eradication of the Miami population is desired, it should be attempted while the population remains localized.
24319523|A mass mortality of Luidia senegalensis occurred February 18, 1977 on Captiva Island, Florida. The occurrence of the nine armed sea star in Florida Gulf coastal waters is well documented.
24321786|Gall midges (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae) were collected in light traps from Big Pine Key, Cudjoe Key, Grassy Key, Key Largo, Little Knockemdown Key, Long Point Key, No Name Key, Plantation Key, Raccoon Key, Tavernier, Upper Matecumbe Key, Vaca Key, and Windley Key. Twelve species were identified: Stomatosema trichodera Gagn, Stomatosema dominicensis Gagn, Didactylomyia longimana (Felt), Claspettomyia bidentata Felt, Asynapta cactophila (Samuelson), Endaphis maculans (Barnes), Odontodiplosis americana Felt, Feltiella curtistylus Gagn, Lestodiplosis laticaulis Gagn, Aphidoletes aphidimyza (Rondani), Dicrodiplosis guatemalensis Felt, and Ficiomyia perarticulata Felt.
24320219|Published accounts of seismic events reported in Florida are reported from the time of occupation of the Florida Peninsula to December 1981. Events are cited by date, time and geographic locality. Note is taken that a continuously recording seismograph has been operational since October 1977.
24320241|The seasonal abundances of 39 fish species in electrofishing collections were compared in the Escambia, Choctawhatchee, and Apalachicola rivers of northwest Florida. Relative abundances, as indicated by catch per unit effort of electrofishing, were examined in the Escambia River. Lepisosteus osseus, Dorosoma cepedianum, D. petenense, and Mugil cephalus were abundant during winter and spring high water in all 3 rivers, but seasonal patterns were less distinct in the larger Apalachicola. These seasonal euryhaline fishes and the catostomids contributed the greatest amounts to the fish biomass in the Escambia River. The abundance of Carpiodes cyprinus declined in the fall during low water, despite increased catch rates of other resident fishes. Female C. velifer outnumbered males during summer, but in winter sex ratios approached 1:1. Male C. velifer were more numerous downstream in late summer. A mark-and-recapture study of Moxostoma poecilurum, a dominant resident in the Escambia River, indicated 1095  504 in a 1 km segment of the Escambia River. Lepomis macrochirus and L. megalotis were 2 of the most abundant fishes in the Escambia River.
24321600|As part of a monitoring program to study the distribution of native frogs and toads and the introduced Cuban treefrog (Osteopilus septentrionalis) invasion, PVC pipe refugia were installed along the edge of 24 marsh, cypress, riverine, and borrow pit wetlands at a natural area in Hillsborough County, Florida. From June 2005 through September 2007, observations of 7,237 treefrogs were recorded, which included 673 green treefrog (Hyla cinerea) observations, 945 pinewoods treefrog (Hyla femoralis) observations, 1,530 squirrel treefrog (Hyla squirella) observations, and 4,089 Cuban treefrog observations. Overall, Cuban treefrogs were the most frequently observed species regardless of wetland type and season. Observations of all treefrog species were typically higher during the dry seasons as compared to those for the wet seasons, suggesting that the pipe refugia provided shelter from the dry and cold conditions. Observations of green or pinewoods treefrogs in pipes were not correlated with Cuban treefrog observations. However, there was a negative correlation between the squirrel treefrog observations in the pipes and the observations of Cuban treefrogs, suggesting that squirrel treefrogs were affected by the presence of Cuban treefrogs.
24321232|Construction during March and April of 2004 revealed extensive temporary exposures of the Anastasia Formation two kilometers inland from the Intracoastal Waterway in Boynton Beach, Florida. In addition to typical Anastasia shelly sands and conquioid limestones, the outcrops were characterized by a massive cap rock, 6 to 7 m above sea level, containing numerous solution holes believed to owe their rounding to wave abrasion during a higher stand of the sea.
24320790|A computer program, written in Q-BASIC, generates Maucha diagrams. These can be used to demonstrate significant changes in the relative proportions of eight major ions in lakes and other natural waters. The ionic diagrams are easily generated with minimum inputs with a user-prompting program.
24320992|Fourteen reptile and three amphibian species were present at the Kampong, a four ha tropical garden in Coconut Grove, Dade County, Florida. Only four species were native, indicating that the herpetofauna of the Kampong was an artifact assemblage dominated by exotic species, mostly small-bodied lizards. Eleven of the 13 exotic species present were established and comprised 42% of the terrestrial and arboreal exotic herpetofauna of Dade County. A new species for North America, Mabuya multifasciata (Lacertilia: Scincidae) of southeast Asia was recorded at the Kampong. The herpetofauna of the Kampong reflected the changing herpetofaunal community of southern Florida. The protected nature of the Kampong and recent acquisitions of adjacent land favor the persistence of both native and exotic herpetofauna.
24319664|Xanthic specimens of the speckled hind (Epinephelus drummondhayi) are described from the eastern Gulf of Mexico.
24319651|About 40,000 living species of animals are suspension feeders, comprising 16% of all aquatic species. Of all species of suspension-feeding animals, 43% are likely to be fossilized as compared to only 8% of all species of living animals. Nearly half of all living colonial animals are suspension feeders.
24319606|A small deposit of Quaternary freshwater sediments was trench sampled to analyze the total invertebrate fauna. Five bulk samples were disaggregated by the Amine 220 technique; taxonomic frequencies were adjusted to reflect standing crop; and adjusted data were programmed into standard diversity and equitability indices. A predictable pattern of community succession emerged with earliest environments of high stress and supporting a few eurytopic organisms. Under favorable conditions stenotopic organisms were dominant but as conditions deteriorated, the colonization process was nearly reversed.
24319547|A female longfin mako (Isurus paucus) was found in the surf at Melbourne Beach, Brevard County, Florida, 28 December 1975. This is the first North American record for this circumtropical species and is the first account of a specimen from continental shelf waters anywhere. Pigmentation pattern, pectoral fin length, and comparative jaw examinations with I. oxyrinchus of similar size were used to verify the identification.
24320619|Lyngbya, a cyanophyte, cyanobacterium, invaded the southeastern United States a few years ago. Because of phijsiological characteristics, it has opportunistically invaded a number of lakes, streams, and estuaries. Consequently, it has become a noxious aquatic plant. A considerable portion of the biomass is below the surface throughout the year, and control must inevitably involve sub-surface treatment. The annotated bibliography summarizes pertinent chemistry, biology, physiology, and ecology of Lyngbya spp.
24320303|I describe a method that I find successful for rearing 3 species of Simocephalus (Cladocera) in the laboratory under controlled conditions and present results of tests that demonstrate the effectiveness of the method.
24320260|Sharks are numerically important members of many marine communities, yet little is known of their role in these ecosystems. Recent technical developments in laboratory and field have facilitated investigation of the autecology of the lemon shark Negaprion brevirostris (Poey). This littoral shark is abundant, lives well in captivity and is ideally suited for investigation. Over the past 24 mo we have marked and released 984 young sharks during a study of population dynamics. Each was injected with tetracycline for age validation. We tracked individual sharks for hundreds of km via ultrasonic telemetry thus determining activity rates, movements, home ranges and diel periods. We evaluated blood gas parameters, food intake, digestion, growth, resting and routine metabolism in the laboratory. These data provide estimates of the energy budget of the lemon shark and form a basis for understanding the flow of energy from environment to shark. Our tentative conclusion is that an adult lemon shark must remove nearly 1500 g of fish daily (1.6  106 calories) to account for its vital activities.
24320013|Monthly plankton collections and water analyses were made at 7stations along the lower 42 km of the St. Johns River Estuary for a 2-yr period. Measurements included temperature, light extinction, salinity, dissolved oxygen, chlorophyll, nutrients, iron, copper, turbidity and pH. All of the stations exhibited major peaks in cell numbers and chlorophyll in June or July and secondary peaks in December or January. The total number of distinct population peaks decreased from 4, near the river's mouth, to 2 at the upper stations. Species diversity decreased with distance from the river's mouth, whereas, chlorophyll concentration increased. The chlorophyll concentration was correlated closely with cell counts at most stations. Population density appeared to be most closely correlated with salinity, phosphate, and pH. High N:P ratios occurred throughout the year, suggesting that phosphorus is more limiting than nitrogen in the St. Johns River system.
24320183|During an investigation of terra rossa in south Florida, a chlorite-like mineral was found to be the sole clay mineral present in the soils. The clay has accumulated and/or formed in the porous, well-drained oolitic facies portions of the Miami Limestone, especially on the Atlantic Coastal Ridge. This clay mineral is an aluminous, dioctathedral variety that shows x-ray diffraction characteristics indicative of a pedogenic origin. Previous theories that have been proposed for formation of pedogenic chlorite-like clays are not applicable to this occurrence. Therefore an alternative model, based on carbonate inhibition of gibbsite precipition, is proposed for hydroxyinterlayering of clays in carbonate-rich soils and for the formation of chlorite-like clay minerals in terra rossa.
24321898|This report describes for the first time the pathologic findings associated with mortality in 19 cetaceans (11 Atlantic bottlenose dolphins [Tursiops truncatus], 6 pygmy sperm whales [Kogia breviceps], and 2 short-finned pilot whales [Globicephala macrorhyncus]) which stranded along Florida's Atlantic northeastern coastline between May 2009November 2011. The cause of death could be determined in most necropsied cases, which demonstrates the importance of performing gross and microscopic examinations on freshly stranded marine mammals. Causes of death in decreasing order of frequency were infectious/inflammatory disease, cardiomyopathy, starvation and congenital disease. The primary cause of death in dolphins and pilot whales was infectious/inflammatory disease (n=12) and in pygmy sperm whales cardiomyopathy (n=3). In cases of inflammatory/infectious disease, multisystemic disease was common. The primary inflammatory/infectious disease lesions in decreasing order of frequency were pneumonia (n=9; 75%), gastroenteritis (n=6; 50%), hepatitis (n=3; 25%), meningitis (n=3; 25%), dermatitis/panniculitis (n=3; 25%) and pancreatitis (n=2; 17%). The primary cause of death in both this report and a similar study from the Indian River Lagoon (IRL), FL was similar. However, the prevalence of infectious/inflammatory disease in necropsied bottlenose dolphins in northeastern Florida was higher than that reported from the IRL. The prevalence of cardiomyopathy in pygmy sperm whales was similar to that reported in prior studies from other geographic regions of the eastern United States and Taiwan. Understanding the pathologic features associated with mortality in cetaceans is important for the future management of these species and may provide an insight into the health of the coastal ecosystem from this geographic region of Florida.
24319600|Behavior patterns of the United States Supreme Court during a period of progressive influence were examined. Decision patterns were analyzed by the use of cumulative scaling and the concept of a natural court. Justices appointed by progressive presidents were found in about half the instances not to conform to the expectations placed upon them by their appointer. For a variety of reasons, the progressive justices failed to significantly change the policy dimensions of the Court.
24320206|The type of species of the fossil annelid worm Rotularia Defrance, 1827, is Serpula spirulaea Lamarck, 1818, subsequently designated by Wrigley, 1951. Rotularia vernoni (Richards, 1948) is an excellent index fossil for the top zone of the Ocala Group (Eocene) of peninsular Florida.
24320266|Fossil foraminifera have been identified from the late Pleistocene Miami Limestone and Key Largo Limestone of the Florida Keys. The dominant foraminifera from the olite unit of the Miami Limestone are the same species that occur most commonly in the recent olite deposits of the Great Bahama Bank. The assemblage from the bryozoan unit of the Miami Limestone is typical of the shallow shelf sea behind the Cat Cay olite mounds today on the western edge of the Bahama Banks. The foraminifera of the upper part of the Key Largo Limestone suggest a shallow-water, coral reef deposit in the absence of a protective outer reef.
24319836|Changes in benthic fauna were monitored following excavation of an offshore borrow area in the vicinity of Fort Pierce Inlet, Florida. Sampling stations were established along 2 transects located in the borrow area, 1 control transect north of the borrow area, and 1 control transect south of the borrow area. Results suggest that relatively larger reductions in abundance, but not number of species, of the benthic fauna occurred in the borrow area following dredging as compared with the controls. Therefore the decrease observed appears greater than can be accounted for on the basis of seasonal changes alone. Both parameters returned to pre-dredging levels in from 9-12 months. Species composition, however, was altered in the borrow area and had not returned to the pre-dredging composition after 12 months. It is probable that this species shift is not detrimental in that it resembles the species composition at other undisturbed locations in this region.
24320228|Behavior patterns in West Indian manatees (Trichechus manatus) were observed and evaluated at Blue Lagoon Lake, Miami, Florida. Herd size, location, and time of day were correlated with various activities. Manatee movements were unrelated to tidal conditions. Submergence times of the manatees varied directly with size of the animal, except for female-calf pairs who breathed synchronously, possibly to keep the animals together. Submergence times for each of 3 size classes of manatees decreased with type of activity in the following order: resting, feeding, cruising. Submerged plants were eaten more often than either natant or emergent ones, and Hydrilla verticillata was the most commonly consumed plant.
24321646|Common snook Centropomus undecimalis in Florida are thought to move from open estuarine and coastal marine habitats into rivers during colder months to overwinter; however, this paradigm has never been formally tested. Seasonal electrofishing surveys (20042006) were conducted to determine the distribution, abundance, and size of common snook in the three major rivers leading to the Charlotte Harbor estuary, Florida. Common snook abundance in the tidal freshwater portions of all three rivers was high in spring and summer, and then doubled in fall. In the open estuary, haul seine data (19972007) were used to examine seasonal trends; common snook abundance was significantly lower during winter. No specific size group alone appeared to be involved in these seasonal changes, as length frequencies did not differ between seasons. Although these results provide evidence that a portion of the population moves between the rivers and the open estuary, the reasons for these movements require further study. The strong presence of common snook in the rivers during summer and their peak abundance in fall as opposed to winter, were unexpected and suggest that there may be interactions between their use of freshwater and marine environments that are more complex than previously considered.
24319617|A preliminary survey of the decapod crustaceans of the estuarine waters of Brevard County, on the central east coast of Florida, was made during the summer months of 1971 and the summer and fall of 1972. In all, 44 species and subspecies of decapods were collected from the estuaries and adjacent shorelines, and brief annotations are included for each. A three year summary of salinity and temperature levels occurring in the estuaries is also given.
24312038|Small groups of a rare, hystricomorph rodent, the Bahamian hutia (Geocapromys ingrahami), were studied in captivity. A repertoire of social behavior was determined for the species. Agonistic behavior was generally minimal in established groups except when estrous females were present. Social hierarchies and amicable, cohesive behavior were probably important in minimizing agonistic behavior. The cohesive wrestling behavior of hutias may be unique.
24321099|In January 2003, east-central Florida lagoon water temperatures plunged quickly to 5C. Twenty-nine Chelonia mydas (green turtles) became cold stunned and were found in a comatose-like state in Mosquito Lagoon, Brevard County. The turtles were retrieved from the water, and taken to a facility at the Merritt Island National Wildlife Refuge to warm and protect them from the elements. Researchers recorded retrieval times and locations for each animal. The turtles were examined, photographed and measured. Fifteen of the turtles were afflicted with fibropapillomatosis (FP) disease. The disease manifests as tumors normally on the eyes and fleshy parts of the body. The condition of each individual was documented including the location and size of FP tumors. Ten turtles were transported to a rehabilitation facility due to their advanced stage of FP or their overall health condition; five of these died in transport, at the facility, or their extremely poor condition warranted euthanization. Five days later, the remaining C. mydas were released in Mosquito Lagoon when water temperatures reached 23C. The details of this and previously documented cold stun events in Florida are discussed.
24319730|The diet of the Florida pompano (Trachinotus carolinus) was investigated by examining stomach contents of adults from the Indian River and juveniles from the surf zone off Brevard County. Juveniles consumed primarily benthic crustaceans, mainly Emerita talpoida, and the bivalve, Donax variabilis. The diet of the adults consisted mainly of bivalve molluscs in the families Tellinidae, Mactridae, and Arcidae. In comparison with juveniles, the adults displayed a decrease in the number of planktonic organisms that are selected as prey items. Availability of prey appears to be more important than caloric content of prey in determining the diet of T. carolinus. The diet of adult pompano may be more diverse in those individuals found near the inlet regions of the lagoon. Our findings differ from previous studies that have determined bivalves to be more important in the diet of juvenile Florida pompano and crustaceans to be dominant in the diet of adult Florida pompano.
24320963|Analysis of water and soil samples at six different sites along Delaney Creek in Tampa, Florida, revealed lead contamination of the creek water. This contamination arises from migration of lead from a lead-acid battery disposal site at the junction of U. S. Highway 41 as it flows toward McKay Bay in Hillsborough County, Florida. Water samples from the creek nearest the battery disposal site were found to have a lead level of 2.90  0.36 ppm, and creek bottom sampling detected a lead level at 269  36 mg/kg air dry basis. Lesser levels of lead were found in the creek water up and down stream with 1.92  0.36 ppm in water samples about 100 feet upstream and 1.17  0.36 ppm in water samples about 500 feet downstream from the contamination site, indicating that some lead migration is occurring. At sites further upstream no lead was detected in the creek bottom samples.
24320142|Packed cells from cultures of Ptychodiscus brevis and Nannochloris sp. were analyzed for fatty acids and sterol composition by gas chromatography following conversion to the methyl ester and acetate derivatives, respectively, and comparison with authentic samples. Cholesterol was the major sterol in both algae (ca. 40% of total sterols) but ergosterol (7-dehydrocholesterol) was specific for P. brevis. 23-Methylcholesta-5,22-dien-3-ol and 4-24-dimethyl-5-cholestan-3-ol and dinostanol comprised the rest of the sterol mixture in P. brevis. Stigma-sterol and 28-isofucosterol constituted the remainder of sterols in Nannochloris sp. Nannochloris sp. was distinguished from P. brevis by having C10, C14:1, and C18:4 fatty acids; P. brevis was unique in having a C20:2 fatty acid. Both algae have relative high concentrations of C16 fatty acids: myristic and oleic for P. brevis and Nannochloris sp., respectively. The other fatty acid compositions are described. The significance of ergosterol in P. brevis to an understanding of the mechanism of lysis of P. brevis cells is considered.
24320675|The Old World tropical house gecko (Hemidactylus mabouia) is reported for the first time from the Dry Tortugas where it occurs on buildings and surrounding vegetation of Ft. Jefferson on Garden Key. Its diet included hard and soft-bodied prey of various sizes, including roaches and scorpions. Colonization by this species was subsequent to that of its congener, H. garnotii, which is now nearly absent on Garden Key, but still numerous on Loggerhead Key where it occurs alone. Our findings of species replacement corroborate an assertion that among hemidactyline geckos, only one species remains dominant at a time on buildings in Florida.
24320606|Environmental parameters were quantified to develop a physiognomically based system for describing and predicting gopher tortoise (Gopherus polyphemus) habitat on the Florida Atlantic University Nature Preserve. There were significant correlations among gopher tortoise densities and all physiognomic features except saw palmettos. Some correlations were positive, others were negative. However, the only feature with predictive usefulness was bare ground. Burrows were regularly dispersed and the highest densities occurred in historic wet prairie associations. Tortoises located burrows in areas with less canopy and shrub cover but greater herbaceous cover and more extensive bare ground. If we are to maintain current densities of tortoises on the Preserve, management of exotic vegetation will have to be employed
24321140|Sawfish were once common in the southeastern United States, but became rare during the twentieth century before they were studied. They are protected from harvest in Florida, are considered "at risk of extinction" ' in North America by the American Fisheries Society, and listed as "endangered" by the World Conservation Union. Collections and observations of sawfish in southwest Florida from Charlotte Harbor to northern Florida Bay were documented by soliciting information from anyone who would encounter these fish (e.g., scientists, fishing guides, private citizens). We also circulated a poster (e.g., bait and tackle shops, boat ramps, fishing tournaments) that asked for anyone with any information on these fish since 1990 to contact us (by telephone, mail, or e-mail). Posters were distributed beginning in January 1999 and continue to be maintained from Port Charlotte, Florida (Charlotte County) south to Flamingo, Florida (Monroe County). Each person that had information was asked the same series of questions to determine the date and location of the encounter (collection or observation), estimated total length (ETL), and habitat characteristics. A total of 533 sawfish encounters that occurred between 1990 and 2001 were reported to us. Most sawfish encounters consisted of a single fish caught on hook and line, but groups of 220 similar-sized individuals were also reported. Neonates, juveniles, and sexually mature sawfish were found throughout the study area. These data indicate that the overall sawfish population is larger than previously thought; however, the majority of sawfish documented by this study were most likely sexually immature (89% < 3 m ETL). Thus, we support continued protection and conservation efforts and hope these efforts will allow the remaining sawfish populations to grow throughout their range. This study is the first survey on sawfish in Florida.
24322130|Seagrass species composition and distribution reflect environmental changes, making these measures potentially useful estuarine indicators. An annual seagrass transect and quadrat monitoring survey program including 50 locations in Charlotte Harbor, Florida, began in 1999. This six-year data set was analyzed in conjunction with a monthly water quality monitoring program covering the same time period to examine trends in seagrass species composition and distribution. Analyses of the maximum depth of seagrass distribution for each transect did not indicate any large-scale changes in seagrass depth distribution. This suggests a stable overall area of seagrass distribution in the Charlotte Harbor area during the study period. However, abundance of Halodule wrightii and Thalassia testudinum has significantly declined, along with the overall frequency of seagrass occurrence among quadrats. Finally, the distribution of the three dominant seagrass species, H. wrightii, T. testudinum, and Syringodium filiforme, appear to be influenced by low, wet-season salinity and high variation. This study highlights the value of research into seagrass species abundance and distribution on a meter-to-meter scale to recognize the effects of water quality or environmental variables such as salinity on a small scale, prior to large scale loss.
24320786|The typical relationship between metabolic rate (VO2) and body weight is VO2= aWb. An argument is presented to illustrate that adjustments of observed metabolic rates by division by Wb does not "coorect" metabolic rates for body size. Instead, it adjusts metabolic rate to that of an organism of unit body weight, which is not normally the intent of such mathematical adjustments, and which can lead to misleading interpretations of data. A general equation is presented that will adjust metabolic rate to any desired weight (the mean weight of the sample series is recommended).
24319545|A preliminary investigation was made of the macrobenthos in an enriched (by secondary sewage effluents and urban runoff) east-central Florida lagoon, Sykes Creek, and in other less-enriched parts of the same system. Peterson grab samples were taken at 6 stations in Sykes Creek and at 2 control stations in the Indian and Banana Rivers, once during the summer and once during winter. Sykes Creek stations showed greater temporal variability than did the controls in almost all macrobenthic parameters measured (i.e., species diversity, density, biomass, and species ratio differences). Sykes Creek stations also had decreased species numbers and diversity values and a predominance of opportunistic species.
24319512|Calculated X-ray powder diffraction patterns for the crandallite-goyazite series compare reasonably well with observed patterns and serve to identify minor indexing errors. Minor deviations between the calculated pattern for crandallite and observed patterns are due in part to the prevalence of Sr-substitution in natural crandallite. Intensity variations associated with substitution between Ca and Sr serve as a means of determining specific composition in the crandallite-goyazite series. Computed absolute scale factors allow the calculated patterns to be used in quantitative analysis of crandallite-bearing sediments.
24320703|Historically, the Kissimmee River was a complex braided channel with an extensive floodplain wetland that was channelized and converted to a series of five impoundments by the U. S. Army Corps of Engineers from 1962 through 1971. Restoration of the Kissimmee River system has begun and includes a South Florida Water Management District program to evaluate the success of the restoration and provide input for adaptive management during the recovery of the system. Invertebrate community composition can serve as a useful system attribute for evaluating the success of the Kissimmee River ecosystem restoration project. The research reported here: 1) identifies the regional species pool of aquatic insects that potentially occur in the Kissimmee River Basin; 2) evaluates the process of assigning functional groups based on feeding, habit, and voltinism and using calculated ratios to make assessments of ecosystem attributes. An initial study on partially restored remnant channels of the Kissimmee River indicates that the littoral-floodplain habitats can be readily distinguished from each other on the basis of invertebrate functional relationships. In addition, this organization promises to be a good predictor of general ecosystem attributes such as the autotrophy-heterotrophy index (P/R) and the availability of invertebrate food for wading birds and drift- and benthic-feeding fish.
24320528|In an effort to protect public drinking water supplies, the Florida Legislature enacted the "State Underground Petroleum Environmental Response Act" of 1986 (SUPER Act). This bill created a trust fund which provides monies for the state to conduct site rehabilitation projects or for reimbursement to persons who have voluntarily or through negotiated enforcement cleaned up their sites. Participation in the program is encouraged by the establishment of a grace period (July 1, 1986-December 31, 1988) during which owners or operators of petroleum storage systems that report suspected contamination will not be held liable for the costs of restoring their sites. More than 9,000 applications were received during the 30 month grace period. Rules covering the order of site cleanup and reimbursement, establishing cleanup guidelines, and providing for reimbursement of reasonable costs have been adopted by the Environmental Regulation Commission.
24319562|Movement and attachment of labeled curly-top virus (CTV) in resistant and susceptible pepper seedlings were investigated by macro and micro autoradiography. The 35S label remained localized in the tissues where the insect vector was feeding and the cytidine-5-3H label indicated virus transport in the phloem and 2 hr after inoculation appears to be attached to the nuclei of phloem parenchyma in both resistant and susceptible peppers. pH in plant tissues and body fluid and saliva of the insect vector is the major factor regulating stability of nucleocapsids and infectious and non-infectious forms of CTV.
24321431|Fifty epiphytic algal species on the seagrass Halodule wrightii in Hillsborough Bay, Florida, were identified based on spring, summer, and autumn collections between 1995 and 2008. There were 16 species of Cyanobacteria, 16 of Chlorophyta, 6 of Heterokontophyta, and 12 of Rhodophyta. The low number and infrequent appearance of the algal epiphytes, in part, reflects the wide ranges in temperature (16 to 35 C) and salinity (8 to 35 PSU) in the northeastern estuary of Tampa Bay in the spring, summer and autumn over 14 years and the lack of large nutrient fluctuations and stability of H. wrightii. Seasonally, the number of species of Cyanobacteria, Chlorophyta, and Rhodophyta increased during the wet season (summer into early autumn), while members of the Heterokontophyta occurred mostly in the spring and summer. The study was carried out in the northeastern subsection of the Tampa Bay estuary where H. wrightii cover had increased from 0.2 ha in 1986 to 56 ha in 2008 after a decrease in nitrogen loading. Although a fraction of Hillsborough Bay supported seagrass cover in 2008 compared to the estimated cover in 1950 (ca. 1000 ha), epiphyte abundance and number of species over 14 years suggests that nitrogen loads in the Bay are presently low and stable.
24322345|Data are presented on seasonal abundance, microhabitat preferences, diet composition, growth rate, gestation period, clutch size, sperm web construction, courtship and mating behavior, egg sac construction, maternal behavior, and diel periodicity for the wolf spider, Arctosa littoralis Hentz from a scrub habitat in Florida. Arctosa littoralis is active during diurnal and nocturnal periods. During daylight hr, 84% percent of immatures was found either under leaf litter, plant debris or rocks, whereas 72% of adults and subadults was found under shaded bushes, rocks, or plant debris, or on the surface of leaf litter. At night, 70 and 73% of immatures, and adults/subadults, respectively, were found under plant material, on surface of litter, under bushes, or in open areas devoid of vegetation. This spider is a generalized predator and feeds primarily on a variety of ground-dwelling insects and spiders. Under laboratory conditions sperm webs were rectangular and required 1.56 min to complete. Induction of sperm into palpi required 59 min. Egg sac construction required 4390 min. Clutch size ranged from 2081 eggs (mean: 48.83  8.03 SE). Gestation period ranged from 913 days (at 22  0.4 C, 6575% RH; mean: 11.85  1.86). Upon emergence, spiderlings climbed on the female's back and remained there for 1114 days, after which they dispersed. A. littoralis exhibited 1011 instars. By instar 7, spiders had increased in size (carapace width) from 1.523.22 mm, and to 4.154.43 mm by instar 11. There was a significant positive correlation between female mass and size, offspring mass and size, female size and clutch size, and female size and clutch mass.
24322348|Microhabitat use by Neotoma floridana, Peromyscus gossypinus, and Rattus rattus in the tropical hardwood hammocks of Key Largo, Florida was modeled using logistic regression in order to determine the habitat needs of these species as well as determine if the species exhibited shared or distinct preferences. Models were created to determine which microhabitat variables could predict the presence or absence of a species at a trapping station. Data from the stations where a species was captured were used to create models describing the intensity of use. The presence of N. floridana at a location was predicted by characteristics of the understory, while their intensity of use of a location was predicted by canopy characteristics. The presence of P. gossypinus was predicted by characteristics of the canopy, while intensity of use of a location was predicted by understory characteristics. R. rattus intensity of use of a location was predicted by canopy characteristics. Our results suggest that N. floridana and P. gossypinus prefer intermediate age class hammock habitat and efforts should be made to minimize anthropogenic disturbance to Key Largo's hammocks.
24321840|Coastal eutrophication is a worldwide environmental concern, but especially so in Florida where there remains an inability to predict possible impacts on the chemical, physical, and biological features of the State's estuaries. An empirical approach developed for freshwater systems was used to examine the potential impact of suspected eutrophication on Choctawhatchee Bay, an estuary in northwestern Florida. Special attention was given to the hypothesized impact on submersed aquatic vegetation (SAV). A mass balance phosphorus-loading model accurately predicted phosphorus concentration within the bay. Similar to freshwater systems, significant empirical relationships were established between phosphorus and chlorophyll concentrations, and chlorophyll concentrations and water clarity as measured by using a Secchi disc. Secchi depth measurements were used to estimate the maximum depth of plant colonization and these predicted depths showed that the measured abundance of SAV in Choctawhatchee Bay was significantly less than the potential abundance, assuming light was the sole limiting factor to SAV distribution and abundance. The suspected eutrophication of Choctawhatchee Bay was not apparent using the chain of eutrophication models and was likely not a factor determining the distribution and abundance of SAV in the bay.
24319484|Alligator ponds or gator holes are ecologically important components of the marshes and swamps of southern Florida. Pond limnology was strongly influenced by southern Florida's subtropical environment and its alternating wet and dry seasons. Three morphological types of alligator ponds, peatland, rockland, and cypress ponds, are maintained by the activities of the American alligator. The study pond included emergent and submerged plant zones and was surrounded by swamp and marsh plant communities, particularly cypress swamps. Temperature varied seasonally and was strongly influenced by seasonal plant growth that inhibited mixing and resulted in temperature differentials equivalent to 12 C/m. The water was relatively clear and slightly brown. Physicochemical characteristics varied seasonally being affected by concentration in the dry season, dilution in the wet season, and the effects of fish kills. Oxygen supersaturation was frequent and diurnal fluctuation was great, particularly in the dry season. Low dissolved oxygen, high community respiration, and high fish densities caused fish kills. Reserve pH was consistently 8.2-8.3 and in situ pH was usually 7.1-7.8. The water was highly buffered; total alkalinity generally was 130-200 ppm. Nutrient concentrations were generally low. Specific conductance usually ranged 184-290 mho/cm2. Most constituents reached extreme levels during a fish kill. Although remote, the pond showed evidence of pesticide contamination.
24321885|From 2004 to 2008, 1,834 Environmental Resource Permits were issued for development projects in coastal wetlands within the Charlotte Harbor National Estuary Program. We evaluated 118 sites utilizing three wetland functional assessment methods (WFAMs): Hydrogeomorphic Method (HGM), Wetland Rapid Assessment Procedure (WRAP), and Uniform Mitigation Assessment Method (UMAM). All functioned as designed and produced similar assessments of wetlands but yielded different mitigation results. The study results showed that HGM was most effective in identifying and quantifying wetland fuctions of coastal wetlands. UMAM and WRAP are useful but delivered mitigation ratios less than one in both function and area, resulting in net wetland losses. The wetland area lost over the study period was small relative to total wetland area, but the permitted wetland elimination is gradually reducing the extent of wetlands. The process relocates wetland functions out of impacted watersheds toward off-site mitigation areas. The WFAM site evaluations indicated an equal or greater balance of ecosystem functions within the total service area when utilizing off-site mitigation. However, there is loss of wetland area and function in the donor watershed and an increase in function, but not area, of wetlands in the receiving watershed.
24319832|The present paper analyzes the dental health of a prehistoric population excavated at Highland Beach on the southeast coast of Florida. The main subsistence activity of this group was thought to be hunting of small game animals, exploitation of marine resources and gathering of plants. Archaeological evidence suggested that it was a pre-contact Indian society dating from 600 to 1200 A.D. Seven dental lesions were analyzed from a sample of 46 males and 62 females. A relatively low frequency of both caries and hypoplasia was detected in both sexes (about 1 %). Sexual differences were observed in antemortem tooth loss, periodontal abscess, alveolar resorption, and attrition, all of which were more common in males than females. These findings are in general agreement with other studies of similar pre-contact coastal American Indian populations practicing foraging subsistence strategy.
24320342|Capture of 1167 juvenile and adult snook, Centropomus undecimalis, in marine, estuarine and freshwater habitats of east-central Florida from 1974 to 1980 made possible determination of spawning periods, migratory habits, growth rate, general feeding habits and principle habitat associations. Although some juvenile recruitment to the estuary took place throughout the year, recruitment peaked from June to August and October to January. Early juveniles, 15-20 mm SL were most abundant in freshwater and marsh habitats. After 4 to 6 mo, juvenile snook reached 100-150 mm SL and were no longer caught in freshwater tributaries and marsh habitats. Snook 150 to 300 mm SL (mean of 240 mm) long typically began to migrate into seagrass beds during March. Age of a 240 mm snook is estimated at 7 to 9 mo. Seagrass beds 5 to 15 km away from ocean inlets were preferred habitats for juvenile snook over 150 mm SL and significant correlation was apparent between the percentage seagrass cover and number of snook caught per unit effort. Snook remained in seagrass beds from 2 to 5 mo until they reached a length of 300 mm. Snook over 300 mm SL were found to occur in a variety of estuarine and marine habitats. Snook as small as 11 mm SL were piscivorous in freshwater feeding primarily on neonatal Gambusia affinis, secondarily on palaemonid shrimp and microcrustaceans. However, small marsh snook fed principally upon microcrustaceans until large enough to take fish and palaemonid shrimp. Seagrass bed snook preyed on abundant fishes (e.g., Anchoa mitchilli and Lagodon rhomboides) and penaeid shrimp.
24319414|The distribution of Betula nigra, the river birch, was determined for the United States by field observations over 13 years, personal communications from field botanists, data from herbarium specimens and literature reports. A plot of the species is given by counties. The species extends from the northern part of Florida into Minnesota, Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York and New Hampshire and from the east coast into the eastern parts of Minnesota, Iowa, Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas. This northern range closely follows the southern limits of the last major continental glacier.
24321881|To help refine pollutant loading estimates throughout Sarasota County, the County and the Southwest Florida Water Management District monitored multiple medium-density residential areas to quantify the difference in pollutant loads between areas served by swales and areas served by curb and gutter. Sites were selected to be as similar as possible (e.g., soils, age of development, lawn care intensity, imperviousness, etc.) so that differences in results could be attributed to use of curb and gutter versus swales. Conditions favorable to higher confidence flow monitoring and proximity of sites to each other were also considered in site selection. Monitoring results showed significant differences in flow volumes and pollutant concentrations between the two types of areas. Pollutant loads from the swaled areas were substantially lower (10-fold less for some pollutants) than those from curb and gutter areas. Additionally, the swaled areas demonstrated runoff response patterns characteristic of an area without directly connected impervious area. The findings from this study are highly supportive of low impact design and demonstrate the effectiveness of source control higher in the stormwater system, particularly for systems with disconnected impervious areas.
24320349|Variations of dissolved ammonia and phosphate in pore water at depths of 2 to 40 cm were examined every 3 hrfor 27 hr. Eh values were consistently negative and pH ranged from 7.2 to 8.0. Ammonium and phosphate were greatest at 10 cm and both steadily decreased to 40 cm. Maximum ammonium concentrations were 2.7 M in surface water and 169 M in the sediment. Maximum phosphate concentrations were 6.4 M in surface water to 30.4 M in sediment. Nitrate concentrations were 2.2 to 9.9 M at 2 cm and 0.1 to 0.8 M in surface waters. No nitrate was detected below 2 cm. Dynamic changes in the levels of phosphate and ammonium were observed during the period.
24320318|Nestling pelecypods lack stout byssi. They live in crevices, rocks and holes left by boring pelecypods or dead barnacles. They characteristically have distorted shells that conform to the constricting cavity. Almost all nestlers have eulamellibranch ctenidia and all are marine suspension feeders. The earliest nestling pelecypods are probably Jurassic in age, but they increased greatly in diversity during the Cenozoic.
24321719|The ability of Tetrahymean vorax V2S, a unicellular, ciliated protist, to incorporate exogenously supplied inositol isomers was investigated by GC-MS analysis of inositol trimethylsilylimadazole derivatives prepared from hydrolyzed fractions containing free intracellular inositol plus polyphosphoinositols, and hydrolyzed fractions of total lipids. The predominant endogenous isomer found in each fraction was identified as myo-inositol. Following addition of exogenous inositol to a concentration of 100 M and incubation at 20C for 10 h, the cells internalized each of the seven isomers tested into the free inositol/polyphosphoinositol fraction. scyllo- and neo-Inositol were found in the lipid fraction. Less than 3% of myo-inositol uptake occurred via transport by food vacuoles as indicated by radiolabeling studies. When cells were supplied with any of the inositol isomers tested and incubated at 2C for 10 h, up to 24% of the total inositol detected in the free inositol/polyphosphoinositol fraction was identified as scyllo-inositol. Cells incubated at 2C and not supplied with exogenous inositol showed no relative increase in scyllo-inositol in the free inositol/polyphosphoinositol fraction.
24320460|Estimates, from laboratory and aquarium studies, were obtained of light compensation levels for the race of monoecious hydrilla [Hydrilla verticillata (L.f.) Royle] established in the Potomac River and of the effects of reduced light levels on plant growth and development. Results of this investigation indicate that hydrilla growth is retarded at Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) levels below 100 e/m2/sec. This is approximately equivalent to Secchi disc transparency, which is 5% of incident solar PAR. Our results suggest that depth and areal distribution of hydrilla in the Potomac River will be restricted to the limnetic zone. Growth should not occur below 1 % of incident solar PAR, and probably will not occur below the 5 % level.
24321410|Characters are proposed for the identification of the undescribed larva of Megadytes fraternus Sharp in southern Florida. A linear regression analysis of larval head lengths and total adult lengths was used to predict head lengths for the undescribed mature larvae of M. fraternus and Cybister occidentalis Aub. Head length estimates indicated that head length of the mature larva of M. fraternus is likely to be less than 6 mm. Measurements of C. fimbriolatus (Say) larvae and estimates computed for the undescribed mature larva of C. occidentalis indicate that crania of both Cybister species should be greater than 6 mm in length. Observations of the prosternal plates of C. fimbriolatus (Say), M. fallax (Aub), M. giganteus (Laporte), and M. marginithorax (Perty) revealed that the distance between these plates is less than the proximal depth of the profemur on C. fimbriolatus but greater than this depth on the Megadytes species examined. Thus, distances between the prosternal plates of M. fraternus are also expected to be greater than the proximal profemoral depth.
24319916|The present study was undertaken to analyze skeletal remains unearthed during a construction project at the Nebot site in Palm Beach, Florida. Based on the artifacts, the site was dated as Glades IIIc indicating contact period with Europeans. The partially fragmented remains were those of two females approximately 16-17, and 35-39 years of age. The older individual was taller and more robust. Metrical and morphological analysis of the crania indicated that these individuals may have belonged to genetically different families or groups. While their general health was relatively good, both showed evidence of dental abscesses, caries and moderate attrition. The older individual also exhibited signs of degenerative arthritis along the thoracic and lumbar vertebrae, and inflammatory swelling of the right tibia. Osteometric comparisons between these individuals and prehistoric Florida populations indicate that the Nebot skeletons most closely resembled Indians from the east coast of the state.
24320769|Slash Pines (Pinus elliottii var. densa) were studied in sites within and outside of Everglades National Park (ENP) to determine if high mortality (8099%) in sites out of ENP following Hurricane Andrew could be related to tree water status, nutrient status, or growth rate. Tree ring chronologies and carbon isotope measurements were used to compare growth rates and water stress levels from recent and old wood. Needle N, P, and C and their ratios were used to compare the nutrient status of surviving trees. Contrary to expectations, carbon isotope ratios of recent wood from trees in ENP indicate water stress levels similar to and in some cases higher than water stress levels of pines outside of ENP. Similarly, leaf nutrients and basal area increments were relatively low in the ENP stands compared to those of Dade County sites outside of ENP. Basal area increments of recent wood were positively correlated with 13C and leaf N and P, suggesting that growth is limited by water and nutrient stress at some of the sites. Furthermore, isotope ratios from most of the sites, including those within Everglades National Park, imply that water stress may have increased relative to 2535 years ago. While the results do not provide the basis for explaining widespread pine mortality outside of ENP, they indicate that in some sites, water stress and nutrients may limit regrowth of these stands.
24319719|Experiments were conducted in the spring of 1978 to compare the effect of seepage and drip irrigation on the yield of broccoli (Brassica oleracea L., Italica Group cv. 'Green Comet Hybrid'), sweet corn (Zea mays cv. 'Silver Queen') and zucchini squash (Cucurbita pepo cv. 'Fordhook'). Fertilizer rates were 2.77 kg N, 1.07 kg P, 3.8 kg K, and 0.3 kg Mg/100 row m in both irrigation systems. Seepage irrigated plots received water at a constant rate of 13.31 l/m2/da, while the amount of water with the drip system was adjusted every 10 da throughout the growing season. During their respective growing seasons broccoli received 752 l of water/m2 in seepage and 216 l/m2 in drip irrigation, sweet corn received 978 l/m2 and 355 l/m2 and zucchini squash 1124 l/m2 and 359 l/m2. Broccoli had a higher per plant and per ha yield with seepage irrigation. Sweet corn and zucchini had a higher/ha yield with drip irrigation due to higher plant density/ha. To produce l kg of marketable yield with seepage and drip irrigation, broccoli used 1,999 l of water and 684 l, sweet corn 916 l and 193 l, and zucchini 249 l and 59 l, respectively.
24320384|This study was designed to describe the distribution patterns of rice rats in coastal marshes and identify environmental variables that influence these patterns. Rice rat abundance increases from the forest-marsh ecotone toward the shoreline. Tidal flooding also increases along this gradient, but appears not to present a problem. Plant community composition, height, or cover density are not significantly correlated with distribution. These findings lead to hypotheses on the relation of predator and food resource densities to rice-rat distribution.
24320710|While water quality measurements traditionally have served as the surrogate of a water body's viability, ongoing work for the Tampa Bay National Estuary Program emphasizes a critical "next step" by linking water quality direcdy to the environmental requirements of Tampa Bay's most important habitats and to the faunal communities these habitats suppon. Under this strategy, resource-based water quality requirements for seagrass, mangrove, emergent marsh, and benthic communities wl be developed and incorporated into mandated federal and state programs for point and non-point source pollution control.
24320715|The need for regional wildlife habitat planning is critical in the Tampa Bay region because of high rates of growth and habitat removal. The commitment to regional wildlife habitat planning in order to help maintain regional species viability and diversity, has been adopted in Goal 10 of the Tampa Bay Regional Comprehensive Plan (1992) and in several local government comprehensive plans. The plan includes identification and protection of large preserves linked by coastal, riverine, and large mammal wildlife corridors. Implementation techniques to protect identified wildlife habitat include regulation, acquisition, and incentive programs. The difficulties of establishing the plan include resolving multiple-use land conflicts, the applicability of conservation biology theory to real world situations, and the need for accurate, basic information on regional biology.
24321237|Habitat relationships and seasonal activity of the greenhouse frog, Eleutherodactylus planirostris, were studied at Archbold Biological Station in south-central Florida and Everglades National Park in south Florida. In addition to its occurrence in developed areas, the species is well established in natural habitats in both study areas, occurring in mesic habitats in ENP and both mesic and xeric habitats, particularly long-unburned sites with well-developed tree canopy and a dense understory, on the ABS. The prevalence of E. planirostris in long-unburned sandy uplands of south-central Florida historically subject to relatively frequent (e.g. sandhill) or infrequent but intense (e.g. sand pine scrub) wildfires is in contrast to the negative effect of fire exclusion on the xeric-adapted native plant and animal species characteristic of these associations. In both study areas, this species is nearly active year-round, with a SeptemberDecember peak in numbers that included the appearance of young individuals. Calling is seasonal and correlated with warm and humid conditions defined by monthly temperature minima and rainfall. Based on threshold values of temperature and rainfall, predicted calling seasons in different geographic regions are longest (710 months) in extreme southern Florida and the West Indies, shorter (67 months) in southern, central, and much of northern Florida, and shortest (5 months) in extreme northern Florida and Mobile, Alabama, a coastal community where we expect the species to colonize.
24320471|This study describes the magnetic properties of nickel(II) chelates of Schiff-base derivatives of -diketones as a means of inferring their geometry. These compounds exist not as associated species (pseudo-octahedral structures) but as a paramagnetic (tetrahedral or distorted planar) of diamagnetic (planar) compounds. This geometrical isomerism is described for [C6H5COCHC(NC6H5)CH3]2Ni and [C6H5COCHC(4-ClC6H4N)CH3]2Ni. Magnetic susceptibilities of these compounds are consistent with the shift in the planar to pseudotetrahedral equilibrium.
24322001|Spatially distinct areas of intense biological utilization by a species are known as "hot spots." The objectives of this study were to determine the feasibility of utilizing hot spot analysis in an estuarine environment, and to specifically delineate the spatial distribution and the factors that influence the patterns of silver perch (Bairdiella chrysoura), an ecologically important species in northeast Florida due to their abundance and role of transferring energy within estuarine systems. Silver perch from the St. Marys, Nassau, and St. Johns Rivers were collected monthly from April 2001 through December 2005 by the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission Fisheries-Independent Monitoring program. Dense aggregations or "hot spots" of silver perch within these three estuaries were identified using a spatial statistic, Hot Spot Analysis Getis-Ord Gi* in ArcView GIS. Analysis of the abiotic factors driving the hot spots indicates salinity may be an important factor in silver perch habitat utilization. Further analysis revealed a distinct spatial distribution of the hot spots, and utilization varied with silver perch size class. Our results suggest that the hot spot analysis has an application in fisheries research and management and further use can delineate critical habitats and finer scale patterns.
24319574|The card for heterosite in the Powder Diffraction File lists 14 lines of which 3 do not belong to the mineral. We observe 55 lines for heterosite of composition (Fe.82Mn.18)PO4, and these have been indexed, checked against the known structure by calculation, and should serve as better reference data for identification of this mineral.
24319492|Largemouth bass fry hatched in mid-February 1974 were stocked into 7 central Florida hatchery ponds. At 9 and 10 mo bass were observed sweeping nests in 6 of 7 ponds. At 11 mo nests building and spawning activity was observed in all ponds. Bass in a single pond were allowed to remain 12 mo, at which time three distinct size classes of fry were collected. At drawdown 87% of the fish dissected were in, or had passed, reproductive condition. Lengths of males with mature gonads ranged from 120 mm to 320 mm and females from 122 mm to 352 mm.
24320789|An automated analysis system capable of providing speciation and concentration information for several atmospheric NOx compounds was used to obtain diurnal and location variation data during a five day research cruise in the southeastern Gulf of Mexico between May 18 and May 22, 1987. Speciation of these nitrogen compounds was achieved by selective preconcentration onto a series of chemically coated glass hollow tubes. Analysis was performed by thermally desorbing the collected analytes into a chemiluminescence detector providing sub parts-per-billion level determinations.
24320555|The aquatic herbicide fluridone (Sonar) applications to control the exotic aquatic macrophyte Hydrilla verticillata (L. f.) Royle were monitored in 1985 and 1987 in several shallow lakes located within the upper St. Johns River, Florida. Herbicide residues within the monitored treatment plots in 1985 and 1987, peaked above 200 g/L within six hours after application but could no longer be detected (detection limit 1 g/L) by 36 to 48 hours. Seven days after treatments in 1985 and 1987, fluridone was detected moving out of the treated lakes; concentrations ranged from 11 to 26 g/L in 1985 and 1 to 9 g/L in 1987. By 14 days after treatment in 1985, fluridone (7 g/L) was detected at the potable water intake located 8 km downstream of the treatment areas; finished water contained no detectable residues. Fluridone residues (1-4 g/L) were detected entering the potable water intake and in finished water (1-2 g/L) in 1987. Concentrations were well below the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency tolerance of 150 g/L. Fluridone reduced the area covered by hydrilla 40% to 90% in treated lakes in 1985; the plant reduction lasted four months to one year. Fluridone residues were detected for 50 days in 1985 and for 28 days in 1987 within the river system downstream of the treatment plots. Increased rainfall-induced water flow occurred in 1987 versus 1985, and most likely accounted for the greater persistence of fluridone in 1985. Little aquatic vegetation reduction could be demonstrated in 1987, probably due to insufficient concentration/contact time.
24320387|The light absorption coefficients of 17 Florida spring waters ranged from 0.038 to 1.144 m-1. Most springs had absorption coefficients less than 0.3 m-1. Fannin Springs, Rainbow Springs and Weeki Wachee Springs had absorption coefficients less than 0.065 m-1, and absorption spectra similar to that of pure water. Weeki Wachee Springs is among the clearest of natural waters.
24320389|A probe method for measuring radon in soil-air has been developed and applied to studies of radon in Hillsborough County and Polk County, Florida. Application has been in a general survey of Hillsborough County and to selected homesites. In low radon locations, from 4 to 100 pCi/L alpha activity was found. In phosphate mineralized or reclaimed land, alpha activity ranged from 200 to 8000 pCi/L.
24319604|The marine algae associated with a sublittoral reef at Vero Beach, Florida were investigated over a two month period during the summer of 1974. Habitat descriptions, zonation patterns, and floristic information are based upon field observations and laboratory determinations. One hundred nine species are reported, including 15 Cyanophyta, 19 Chlorophyta, 13 Phaeophyta, and 62 Rhodophyta; Gelidiopsis gracilis is newly recorded for Florida waters.
24321867|Euryhaline predatory fishes use river systems in south Florida, but the degree to which they compete with resident freshwater fish predators is unknown. The objectives of this study were to determine the abundance, distribution, habitat, and diet of a large diadromous euryhaline predator (common snook Centropomus undecimalis) in a southwest Florida river relative to large freshwater predators. Fish were electrofished in the mainstem of the Peace River 20072010, and gastric lavage was used to acquire stomach contents. Common snook and resident freshwater predators were found throughout the river. Common snook were most abundant in the lower section of the river, whereas the two dominant freshwater species, Florida gar Lepisosteus platyrhincus and largemouth bass Micropterus salmoides, were most abundant in the upper section. Both euryhaline and freshwater predators had affinities for structure (e.g., snags) and ate similar prey (predominantly crayfish Procambarus spp. and brown hoplo Hoplosternum littorale). Separate niches likely resulted from innate differences in seasonal movement patterns (e.g., spawning locations), habitat preferences (e.g., water depth and flow), and tolerance of environmental conditions (e.g., temperature) that either spatially separated common snook from freshwater predators or reduced competition for resources.
24319394|Man is one of the main sources in contaminating the air quality in a conference room. Air quality was measured while the room was occupied. Miran Infra-red analyzer, MSA Lira analyzer and Ecolyzer carbon monoxide analyzer were used to analyze the air samples. Carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, alcohol, methane and acetone were found. A mathematical model was derived to predict the instantaneous pollutant production rate from human beings, and to select an optimal ventilation rate to avoid excess pollutant accumulation in the room.
24320499|Buried seed densities in bottom sediments near the shores of Newnans Lake, Florida were estimated in 21.24 cm2, 10 cm deep cores collected at each of five water depths: 30, 40, 55, 80 and 120 cm. Germination in a greenhouse was used to determine viable seed density in the 32 samples. Ten herbaceous species and zero woody species germinated over a 12 week period. The number of germinated seeds ranged from 0 to 51 seeds per 21 cm2 sample and averaged 2,766 seeds/m2; there was no apparent trend with depth. Relatively low densities of buried seeds in bottom sediments in Newnans Lake compared with other lakes may be the result of 24 years of dampened lake level fluctuations due to a dam across Prairie Creek, the lake's major outflow.
24321568|The Texas horned lizard, Phrynosoma cornutum, was first introduced into Florida prior to 1928 in Palm Beach, Palm Beach County. Since then, this species was recorded from numerous Florida counties, including Duval, Escambia, Indian River, Lake, Marion, Miami-Dade, Orange, Palm Beach, Polk, and Putnam. We combined data from the literature, by examining preserved specimens in systematic collections, and recent herpetofaunal field surveys to help summarize the historic and present geographic distribution of P. cornutum in Florida. We document this species from four previously unreported counties, including Alachua, Levy, Okaloosa, and Santa Rosa. Phrynosoma cornutum currently occurs in Duval County in the northeastern peninsula and Escambia, Okaloosa, and Santa Rosa counties in the western panhandle. However, it appears that this species may have been extirpated in all other areas in Florida where it was once found. This non-native species should be removed when encountered in the wild and surveys should continue to determine if it is having negative ecological impacts on native species.
24319479|Air quality is a matter of great importance to future development of Florida. In this analysis we attempt to quantify Florida's air quality by using reports based upon measurements of air pollution levels. To carry out this analysis we must utilize some form of Air Quality Index (AQI). Because there is no universally established AQI we utilize several of the proposed air quality indices which have appeared in the literature as well as an AQI which we have developed ourselves. To place these indices on a common scale we calculate factors of safety (FS), by using an air pollution "load limit" specified in terms of the current National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS). With this common feature we can assign factors of safety using the combinative rules involved in a variety of air quality indices. This methodology is applied to a number of cities in Florida, from which we develop a pattern demonstrative of the present quality of Florida's air. We also examine two possible regulatory practices which are presently under consideration by the Florida Department of Environmental Regulation. The Factors of Safety which would result should these regulatory scenarios be adopted, show patterns which should be of interest in public considerations of Florida regulations.
24319403|The ichthyofauna of a tropical marine lagoon in the upper Florida Keys was censused in early spring and mid-summer in 1973. Visual counts revealed a fish standing crop of 0.01 kg/m2 (wet wt) in 1973. Carnivores represented the greatest percentage of the total standing crop of fish by wt. The visual censusing method employed may underestimate herbivore standing crop in tropical marine lagoons.
24321108|We present a complete, updated inventory of free-living copepod crustaceans from Everglades National Park and outside its northeastern border, and adjacent Big Cypress National Preserve, based both on published information, and on unpublished data collected during recent long-term research on surface- and groundwater-dwelling copepods. We provide detailed information on the ecology of the species, and a taxonomic key for their identification.
24319623|Observations of the 82 day incubation and hatching of Sceloporus woodi eggs deposited by a captive female revealed that the hatchlings had a snout-vent length of 19.5-21.4mm and tail 23.5-24.5mm long. Pigmentation was like the adult female even in the ventral markings.
24321413|Warmouth (Lepomis gulosus) biomass and density were positively related to percent area covered with aquatic vegetation in 60 Florida lakes. Warmouth biomass and denity were sampled in Lake Baldwin for nine years and found to be higher in the littoral than limnetic habitats. These data support conventional wisdom and suggest that the primary factor affecting warmouth biomass and density in Florida lakes is aquatic macrophytes abundance. Also, data examined from 60 Florida lakes showed that warmouth biomass averaged 10% of the entire fish population but reached as high as 50%. Because warmouth biomass and density can dominate other fishes in some systems they have the potential to direct a large portion of the energy flow through that system. Additional studies should be conducted to examine the ecological importance of warmouth, especially in macrophyte-dominated aquatic systems.
24321578|Data on 316 biology majors in a small, private university (19932002) revealed statistically significant correlations among SAT scores, GPA's, and performance on the comprehensive final exam in their first biology course. Verbal SAT scores (but not Math SAT scores) and high school GPA were statistically significant though relatively weak predictors for final semester average for the introductory biology course required for all majors; 23% of the variation in final course average was explained by Verbal SAT and HS GPA, leaving 77% of that variation unexplained. We caution admissions personnel and undergraduate advisors against over-reliance on SAT scores and GPA's as sole indicators of success in college biology.
24320453|Both the National Uranium Resource Evaluation and the Florida Statewide Radiation studies indicated a high potential for elevated indoor radon-222 activity levels in Dade County. This was confirmed by readings in one home which exceeded 40 pCi/L. Radium-226 and Radon-222 concentrations were determined in ground water and soil samples in order to understand better the cause of this apparent anomaly. Results indicate the radon-222 source materials are of natural origin, concentrated near the surface, primarily in a region in south Dade County known as the Redlands.
24319962|The geology and physiography of the island are described and the natural plant communities mapped and characterized. The vascular flora of the island consists of 393 taxa representing 92 plant families. The Poaceae, Asteraceae, and Cyperaceae constitute over 35% of the species diversity. Aquatic and wetlands plants predominate. A large number of species common to the Carrabelle area of mainland Franklin County are not found on the island. Although its flora is depauperate, the island has notable plants: the Sand Pine, Pinus clausa, is older on the island than on the adjacent mainland, and the subtropical species Avicennia germinans and Thelypteris interrupta have their northernmost populations on the island.
24320552|The survival of many species of Florida wildlife is threatened by widespread habitat loss. In order to assist in the identification of critical wildlife habitats before they are developed for other uses, a map of 22 land cover types (i.e., wildlife habitats) was created for the entire state of Florida using georeferenced Landsat Thematic Mapper imagery dated 1985-1989. During the study period, lands supporting relatively natural vegetative cover occurred over 58% of Florida, and lands showing evidence of disturbance occurred over 42% of the state. Pinelands were the most abundant upland cover type, freshwater marsh was the most abundant wetland type, and grassland/agriculture was the most abundant disturbed land type.
24312039|Approaches are discussed for integrating biological, hydrological, and cultural features of lakes in central and south Florida to determine operating stages and fluctuation schedules designed to approximate historical conditions.
24321569|Linear least-squares temperature trends were investigated for coastal sites and near-shore areas around Florida. Land air temperature data are from the Historical Climatology Network, littoral water temperature data are from Coast and Geodetic Survey tide gauges, and near-shore pelagic marine air temperatures and sea surface temperatures are from the Combined Ocean-Atmosphere Data Set (38 independent time-series in all). Over the last 160 years or so, Florida coastal air and water temperatures seem to have increased at a rate of about 0.2 to 0.4C per century, but the statistical significance is uncertain. No single dataset is consistent with any one other (r2 = 0.1 between trend pairs), and there is no geographic organization to temperature change as an indicator of Florida's coastal marine climate variability.
24319504|On 13 January 1976 a mature specimen of the naked sole was captured while night-light sampling in water 39.6 m deep. Only one previous report of a surface capture is known.
24320724|Over 1,400 attached blades (above-sediment tissues only) of Thalassia testudinum (turtle grass) were collected from Biscayne Bay over five years (1988-1993). Of these, 1,152 blades came from the Bear Cut Channel near Key Biscayne. The 1992-1993 samples were collected after Hurricane Andrew. These were compared with a smaller sample of 262 blades collected from the Crandon Marina (Key Biscayne) in 1990-1991. Blades from both sites showed the same patterns and proportions of fresh and decayed tissues: decay and epiphytic/epizootic organisms tended to increase along the distal portions of blades. Parrot fish tended to graze selectively on completely decayed portions near the tips of the blades. The data suggest parrot fish grazing in the Bear Cut site decreased over the last five years (over 95% of the sampled blades from Bear Cut had bites in 1988, while only 30-35% of the 1990-1993 Bear Cut blades had bites). The establishment of an artificial reef near Bear Cut in 1988-1989 may have had an influence on abundance of parrot fish, though this seems unlikely. (Funded partially by NIGMS-MARC Grant, Barry University).
24319720|The monotypic cirriped genus Xenobalanus is reported from the Gulf of Mexico for the first time.
24320290|A deformed female blacknose shark (Carcharhinus acronotus) was caught on longline in North Carolina exhibiting an encirclement at the level of the fourth gill slit. Subsequent examination revealed the encirclement to be a continuous monofilament line that had apparently been sewn into the shark rather than a remnant of gill net enmeshing.
24319581|The ichthyofauna in this Collier County estuary varied seasonally as salinity changed. Apparent salinity tolerances are noted for 31 species.
24319906|The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of food quantity and stocking density on the growth of juvenile snook. Two experiments were performed: 1 ) uniform stocking density (4 fish/38 L aquarium) and variable food quantity (7%, 10%, 20%, 30% body weight); 2) uniform food quantity and variable stocking density (1, 4, and 8, fish/38 L aquarium). Over ten weeks and 15 weeks respectively, standard length (SL) and weight were measured weekly. Growth rate was greatest in the 20 % ration and groups of 4; least in 7% ration and groups of 8. Coefficient of Variation (CV) was greatest in the 10% ration and isolated fish; least in the 20% ration and groups of 4. Taken together, these measures suggest that the food quantity of 20% body weight and the rearing conditions in groups of four are most conducive to sustained maximal growth in aquaria.
24321737|Rapidly rising sea-levels are changing the structure and composition of coastal ecosystems in Florida and around the world. Monitoring and predicting the spatial and temporal extents of these changes are important for numerous reasons including future conservation planning. In this study, remotely sensed data and geographic information system models coupled with permanent plot monitoring data were used to track vegetation changes in Waccasassa Bay State Preserve Park for the period of 19732003. Then, using logistic models for land-use change based on elevation and two different climate change scenarios, future changes in vegetation cover were predicted. The most dramatic change observed in land-cover during the monitoring period was a 17.5% reduction in coastal forest due to conversion to salt marsh. The land-cover change models estimate that 50% of the forests present in the Preserve in 1973 will disappear between 2108 and 2228 and all of it will be gone by 22732393. Lamentably, faunal and floral migration into upland areas on private land adjacent to the Preserve is likely to be impeded by development in the region.
24320286|Because of the great variability in outline of the valves of specimens of Exputens ocalensis, we think that this species was a nestler.
24320701|Current meter time series recorded simultaneously at three study sites along the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway (AIW) are used to characterize tidal and nontidal flow in the northern sub-basin of Florida's Indian River Lagoon near Sebastian Inlet. The semi-diurnal M2 constituent dominates all other tidal constituents with amplitudes decreasing from 11.0 cm s-1 near the inlet to 7.6 cm s-1 13 km north. The relative importance of the tidal variance in the current meter records decreases from 49% to 33% of the total over the same distance. The propagation of the M2 tidal wave is 5.5 km hr-1, based on phase angle and distance relationships between two of the study sites. Net along-channel flow is to the south, or towards the inlet, ranging between 0.5 and 2.1 cm s-1 in this section of the AIW during the 42-day study. Low-frequency motions at all three sites are inversely related to wind stress.
24320060|Mithrax spinosissimus in Lower Florida Keys canals has an avg density of 2-4 individuals larger than 6 cm carapace width per 100 sq m of canal wall; abundance increased with more and larger crevices. Tagged adults had an 18 mo molt period. Males comprised 25%, were territorial, and showed a marked increase in claw size near 8 cm carapace width. Avg crab size was estimated, 5-10% were missing claws, and 15-20% were missing walking legs. Although loss of a claw seems to have little effect on survival, claw removal and release is not recommended for commercial use. Commercial exploitation does not appear sustainable at this time.
24319868|Water level data collected over a 25-year period of time, and from 23 locations, are used to characterize the tides of Florida's Indian River lagoon. Diurnal and semi-diurnal tidal constituent amplitudes decrease rapidly with distance from each of three inlets. Beyond a point 25 km north of Sebastian Inlet, all diurnal and semi-diurnal constituent amplitudes are 1 cm or less, and tidal period water level variations account for less than 5% of the total variance. South of Sebastian Inlet, and especially south of Fort Pierce Inlet, tidal amplitudes increase, and the variance of tidal period water level variations is approximately equal to that of long-period fluctuations. Fortnightly and monthly constituent amplitudes are all a few centimeters or less. Semi-annual constituents show considerable variability in amplitude and phase because the data are from different time periods. The amplitude of the annual variation is consistently about twice that of the semi-annual variation, however.
24320747|Vertical profiles for concentrations of Ag, As, Cu, Hg, and Zn in two sediment cores from Crane Creek, Florida indicated that metals were present at 5 to more than 30 times natural levels. Comparison of sediment metal concentrations with values for sediment quality criteria predicted occasional adverse biological effects due to the presence of Ag, Cu and Zn, and frequent adverse biological effects due to Hg contamination. Sediment geochronologies determined by Cs-137 and excess Pb-210 suggest that Crane Creek has been stressed by elevated levels of heavy metals since the early 1950s.
24319608|Eight species of exotic cichlid fish were present in Dade County in March 1975. Three species have expanded their known ranges in the county by 8-16 km between July 1972 and October 1974; Cichlasoma meeki and Tilapia mariae are newly established cichlids in Florida's open waters and Tilapia zillii, a voracious herbivore, was collected in a small enclosed lake.
24320024|Vallisneria americana Michx. and Potamogeton pectinatus L. were collected over a four-year period in the winter and summer from a spring-fed river in central Florida and analyzed for proximate constituents (dry weight, ash, protein, solvable carbohydrate, lipid, fiber and lignin) from which energy content was determined. The stolon of the freshwater species did not store carbohydrate seasonally, and kilojoules per g dry weight were substantially lower in both winter and summer samplings in blades and stolons than reported for seagrasses of the same taxonomic families. Although leaf biomass increased significantly in the summer, a similar increase was not noted for the stolon again in contrast to their marine counterparts. Blade fiber levels in V. americana were higher (to 34%) than that reported for seagrasses or even some terrestrial grasses, suggesting that the broad, linear blades have adapted to high water movement by allocation of a large part of their organic content to structural carbohydrate.
24320016|Dehalogenation of chloroform in 50% chloroform-methanol (v/v) at 63C is assisted by bis(N-n-butylsalicylaldiminato)nickel(II). The reaction was studied in the presence of cyclohexene, and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectra were evaluated at varying times for the appearance of 7,7-dichloronorcarane, the logical product of dichlorocarbene and cyclohexene. The NMR spectra indicate the formation of 7,7-dichloronorcarane, 7,7-dichlorobicyclo[4.1.0]heptane.
24321400|Old World climbing fern (OWCF) is a serious pest plant in natural areas of central and south Florida. The fern has proved to be impossible to eradicate from natural areas in Florida using current management techniques once it has become established and produces spores. Previous studies indicate that multiple herbicide treatments are required for control of the fern. We tested two commonly used herbicides (glyphosate and metsulfuron methyl) at twice the label rate allowed under federal law under controlled conditions in the greenhouse to determine if increased herbicide rates can control OWCF, and concomitant spore germination and sporophyte development. Glyphosate (9.4 l a.i./75.7 l/ha) and metsulfuron methyl (168.0 g a.i./75.7 l/ha) applied at twice the maximum label rates provided complete control of OWCF under greenhouse conditions. No re-sprouts from the treated plants were observed with either herbicide treatment 52 weeks post-treatment. While herbicides applied at twice the recommended rate are effective in eliminating mature OWCF, they are not effective in controlling spore germination and the subsequent development of new sporophytes. Therefore, it is likely that re-treatment of OWCF will be required for control, regardless of the herbicide used or the application rate.
24320133|Tarpon Springs, Florida, consists of three major "enclaves", blacks, Greeks, and non-Greek Anglo-Americans. Hemoglobin data for the first two groups are presented. For 284 blacks, Hb allele frequencies are: A = 0.938, S = 0.051, C = 0.011. For 70 Greeks, the frequency of the thalassemia allele is 0.036. These blacks fit well with the genetic patterns displayed by other black American groups. For Tarpon Springs Greeks the frequency of the thalassemia allele is considerably lower than one would expect from a group primarily derived from the Dodecanese Islands of the southern Aegean Sea. Redirected selection accounts for some of the difference. Age analysis generally documents redirected selection favoring normal hemoglobin genotypes in both Greeks and blacks. The Sewell Wright Effect and/or Founder's Effect may account for the rest. Genetic data also document a lack of admixture between these groups in Tarpon Springs, but not in nearby Tampa.
24320158|The third and fourth known metamorphosed specimens of the fringe-limbed hylid frog, Hyla fimbrimembra, are reported. The first report of colors in life are provided for one of these specimens, a juvenile female from near Monteverde, Costa Rica; this includes a distinct brown-green metachrosis of its lichen-like color-pattern. Summarized are morphometric data on the four known metamorphosed individuals, all females, which range in body size from a 30.5-mm juvenile to an 86.5-mm adult. Available data suggest that the species is a nocturnally active, cloud forest form.
24319472|Necrotic, spreading, nonwalled skin lesions developed in 140 pen-reared hatchling loggerhead sea turtles and most died within a week of the first appearance of the disease. Treatment with mixed penicillin and streptomycin was begun after 131 had died, and before pathogenic determination had been completed. Bacteroides sp. Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphlococcus epidermis were found in lesion pus cultures. Bacteroides sp., common in the feces of warm-blooded animals, was considered the primary pathogen.
24321127|Control of invasive, non-native plants requires constant vigilance and reporting on the occurrence of non-native plants in natural areas. We report the documentation of 122 species of non-native vascular plants from 49 families on the Florida Panther National Wildlife Refuge. Non-native species were predominantly represented by the Poaceae (21%) and the Fabaceae (12%). Of the 122 species observed, 22 (18 %) were categorized as category I invasive plants by the Florida Exotic Pest Plant Council. Most species (69%) were reported in areas associated with previous or current human activity, such as roads, canals, spoil areas, and areas previously inhabited by humans.
24321214|The effects of salinity on the growth and survival of wild celery, Vallisneria americana Michx., from the Caloosahatchee Estuary (southwest Florida, USA), were examined experimentally using indoor mesocosms. Plants were exposed to 5 constant salinity treatments (0, 3, 9, 12, 15) for 43 days. Two factors (position in the estuary, season) which might lead to different exposure regimes and hence different salinity tolerances were also examined. Two independent experiments were conducted: one during the winter dry season and one during the summer wet season. In both seasons, plants were collected from two sites, one 5.5 km upstream of the other. The nutrient and chlorophyll concentrations in the plant tissue were analyzed at both sites. Salinity effects did not vary as a function of site, however, plants grown in sediment from the more upstream site had a higher concentration of phosphorus in blades. There was no seasonal effect on salinity tolerance limits. In both seasons, plants survived exposure to 15 for 43 days and net production of blades ceased at this salinity. There were seasonal differences in the pattern of response to salinity. Growth, as measured by blade elongation and production of blades and shoots, exhibited a threshold response in the dry season, with growth higher at salinities less than or equal to 3 and lower at salinities greater than or equal to 9 (0 = 3 > 9 = 12 = 15). In the wet season, growth declined monotonically with increasing salinity (0 > 3 > 9 > 12 > 15). At salinities  9, growth was greater during the wet season than during the dry season. Depending on the parameter, seasonal differences disappeared at 12 or 15.
24321151|The forces associated with a culture of Karenia brevis with a magnetic stirrer were calculated and related to the release of toxins by the affected organism. Even under seemingly mild conditions (3.5 rpm with a 2.5 cm stirring bar) enough shearing energy was provided to release toxins. Parameters calculated were: the Reynolds Number, tangential velocity, mean velocity gradient, and the power.
24320723|Conditions related to existing boat docks in submerged seagrass beds are analyzed for Pine Island Sound and San Carlos Bay in southwest Florida. Docks located over shallow grass flats were found to be associated with a distinct seagrass "shadow" underneath and adjacent to the docks which is nearly devoid of vegetation. Shadow area is significantly correlated with total dock area but not to dock width, height above mean high water or orientation. Additional dock effects observed include boat motor prop generated scarring of grass flats, changes in seagrass species composition and differences in epiphytic loading on blades. Ramifications of results for government permitting programs are discussed in regard to marina citing, dock specifications and densities.
24320283|The relations of carapace length and skeletal mass to body mass in several turtle species were examined. In nearly all species the log of body mass varies in proportion less than 3 times the log of carapace length. This differs from the usual condition in other reptiles where the proportion is 3 or more. The exponent of the power function relating skeletal mass and body mass averaged 1.11 and was similar to published data from other vertebrates and invertebrates. Some intraspecific (populational and sexual) variation in the relationships of both carapace length and skeletal mass to body mass was evident. Relative percent of body mass in skeletal mass was significantly higher in most turtles examined (2.440.4%) than in other animal groups studied (418%), except freshwater mollusks (1234%).
24321436|Microzooplankton grazing was measured with the dilution method in the central and southern sectors of the Indian River Lagoon during summer 2006 and 2007. Microzooplankton actively grazed phytoplankton during all experiments. Grazing rates averaged (SD) 0.95 0.19 d-1 and ranged from 0.54 to 1.36 d-1. Phytoplankton carbon, measured by microscopy, averaged 314  251 g C L-1 and ranged from 115 to 936 g C L-1. Microzooplankton ingestion rates averaged 303  260 g C L-1d-1 and ranged from 90 to 907 g C L-1d-1. Microzooplankton potential productivity, a first-order estimate of microzooplankton productivity, averaged 91  78 g C L-1d-1 and ranged from 27 to 272 g C L-1d-1. Microzooplankton grazing rates were not related to salinity. In contrast, the magnitudes of phytoplankton carbon concentration, microzooplankton ingestion rate, and microzooplankton potential productivity were statistically significantly greater in lower (<20 psu) salinity waters. An examination of data from another Florida estuary and other Gulf of Mexico coast estuaries suggests that microzooplankton productivity may, in general, be highest in lower salinity waters.
24321380|A total of 30 scale-bearing protistans were observed from 51 freshwater sites in Florida. Ten are new records for the United States.
24321170|During field surveys from June 2002 through August 2003, we documented an established population of the veiled or Yemen chameleon (Chamaeleo calyptratus) in Fort Myers, Lee County, Florida. We recorded at least 70 individuals, including both genders and all size classes in consecutive years, indicating a reproducing population. Additionally, ca. 100 individuals were reportedly removed from this site prior to our study. Chamaeleo calyptratus has also been reported from areas near Lehigh Acres and Alva, Lee County, and Naples, Collier County, suggesting independent introductions of this popular exotic lizard. Monitoring of this population should continue, and eradication should be attempted if ecological impacts on native species are observed.
24320972|Age and growth were determined on a newly established white bass (Morone chrysops) population in Lake Talquin, Florida from 19841993. Back calculated lengths at age were utilized since fish were sampled in the fall, prior to annulus formation. Regression analysis (R2 = 0.67, P < 0.001) demonstrated a linear relationship existed between fish total length (TL) and the arc sin transform of otolith radius. Age analysis indicated unprecedented growth and recruitment into the fishery (x = 267 mm TL) by age-1. Only 13% of 320 white bass back calculated for age were older than age-3. Mean back calculated lengths at age-1 for all yearclasses surpassed published minimum standards deemed as quality size (TL  230 mm). Differences in length (P < 0.0001) between males and females was noted as early as age-1. No significant difference (P > 0.05) in median total length at age-1 was found for all male yearclass combinations. A significant difference (P < 0.05) was apparent for age-2 males in 1984 and 1990. However, all other year-class combinations for age-2 males did not differ significantly (P > 0.05). Median lengths for all female year-class combinations showed no significant difference (P > 0.05) at age-1 or -2. A slight, yet significant downward trend (R2 = 0.0879, P < 0.01, b = -1.005, N = 1004) in relative weight was present from 1984 (Wr = 112) to 1993 (Wr = 98). However, relative weights for all sampling years fell within or slightly exceeded the target goal of 100  5. White bass age and growth, for all age-classes, have varied little over its first 10 years. The cyclical nature in year-class strength and the absence of older aged cohorts are likely contributing factors. No white bass (N = 1004) were ever collected during the course of this study deemed by published standards as trophy size (TL  460 mm).
24321165|We collected natural history data for the nonindigenous Mediterranean gecko (Hemidactylus turcicus) during three nocturnal surveys from summer 2001 through spring 2002 on the University of Florida campus in Gainesville, Florida. Adults consistently occurred at heights > 1m off the ground, whereas subadults usually occurred at heights  1m. Neither adults nor subadults demonstrated a tendency for social interaction. Adults occurred on both exposed and non-exposed wall surfaces, whereas subadults were generally found exposed. Adults chose substrates with higher mean temperatures than those chosen by subadults, and adults were typically located on warmer substrates in spring than in fall. The substrate temperature range for adults was smaller in spring than in fall, and larger than that for subadults in the fall.
24321785|This study examined the site fidelity, group size, and seasonality of dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) in the Atlantic Ocean along Florida's east-central coast, and evaluated dolphin movements between the coastal waters and the adjacent Indian River Lagoon Estuary (IRL). Dolphin sightings occurred in each month surveyed (2/20068/2008); of 221 photo-identified dolphins, 185 (83.7%) were seen 2 times. Low sighting frequencies suggest an extended geographic range beyond the 80 km latitudinal study area, or transience. Twenty-five dolphins seen during exploratory surveys (10/200210/2005) were re-sighted, indicating some level of longer-term residency for particular individuals. Increases in relative abundance in winter and spring indicate that at least some of the population may be migratory. Group size averaged 6.0 (SD = 7.8), and most frequently contained two individuals (22.8%). Calves were present in 88 of 167 (52.6%) groups encountered. Four dolphins that exhibited year-round site fidelity to the estuary were observed once in the ocean within 1 km of an inlet. One female and a dependent calf, which were first observed in the ocean, immigrated into the estuary. The limited movement between the coastal Atlantic and the IRL populations supports discrete management units, with low potential for disease transmission.
24321065|We applied the "leaf pack" technique (e.g., Merritt et al., 1979) that has been successfully used to characterize freshwater ecosystems, worldwide (Cushing et al., 1994), in a pilot study to test its feasibility in an estuarine environment of southwest Florida using Thalassia testudinum, and Rhizophora mangle. Our purpose was to investigate the utility of the "leaf pack" technique as a suitable means of indicating estuarine ecosystem health in this region. Evidence that weight loss of Thalassia leaf packs was substantially influenced by confounding factors were interpreted as indicating an unsuitability of the employed leaf pack procedures for this species, whose blades are both positively buoyant and exceedingly fragile, as a means of reliably characterizing ecosystem health. In contrast, Rhizophora leaves appeared to be more practical for use in leaf pack experiments. In certain instances both species experienced a weight-gain phenomenon, in the early stages of processing, which appeared consistent with extensive microbial colonization and growth. Weight gains recorded of certain Thalassia leaf packs were consistent with observations of heavy epiphytic growth whose visual appearance was different from that found on Rhizophora.
24321449|This study examined final exam scores of distance-education students who utilized supplemental learning resources and those who did not, as well as final exam grades of students in distance education and traditional students enrolled in a finite mathematics class, to determine if distance education is better, worse, or as good as traditional classroom instruction and to determine if supplemental learning resources are improving distance education. Significant differences were found in student performance between students who utilize MyMathLab as a learning tool in Finite Mathematics and those who do not take advantage of MyMathLab through Course Compass. There was no significant difference in final exam scores for students in distance education as compared to traditional instruction.
24321130|Several aspects of digestive function (digestive and assimilation efficiencies, DE and AE, and rate of gastric evacuation) were examined in three species of hemidactyline geckos from Florida: Hemidactylus turcicus, H. garnotii and H. mabouia. The DE and AE values for H. mabouia were significantly higher (88.4 and 75.8%, respectively) than those recorded for H. turcicus (80.7 and 67.2%) and H. garnotii (78.4 and 68.4%). Hemidactylus mabouia also exhibited a higher rate of gastric evacuation than the other two species. Forty-eight hr after feeding, the percent gastric evacuation for H. mabouia was 92.5% whereas the values for H. turcicus and H. garnotii were 75.6% and 70.4%, respectively. Differential values of DE and AE revealed in this study could provide a competitive advantage to H. mabouia and provide a mechanism for its superior colonization success over its two congeners in Florida.
24321857|The Charlotte Harbor National Estuary Program (CHNEP) updated its Comprehensive Conservation and Management Plan (CCMP) in March 2008. Two months later, CHNEP updated its Environmental Indicators Technical Report. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency requires each of the 28 NEPs in the country to produce a "State of the Bay" report or report card from their environmental indicators rooted in their CCMP. This paper describes the process CHNEP used to develop and complete its report guided by a Citizens Advisory Committee. Using survey techniques, CHNEP selected environmental indicators that best represented the state of the Charlotte Harbor estuaries and watershed. Survey respondents included members of each of the four committees (representing citizens, scientists, resource managers and elected/appointed officials) which make up CHNEP's "Management Conference". Over the next three years, the Management Conference issued contracts to fill data gaps, decided on the report title and format, reviewed deliverables from the contracts, compiled and analyzed available data, collected additional data through volunteer citizen efforts and considered representations of the data analyses. The triennial watershed summit featured much of this work and served as a kick-off for the final review of the draft report. The published report can be requested or downloaded at www.chnep.org.
24319746|An exceptionally large specimen of this open ocean genus extends the range of the species some 5400 km from off the coast of western Africa to New Jersey in the western North Atlantic. The specimen is described and figured, and meristics and morphometrics agree well with large individuals from near Japan.
24319452|Spiny lobsters grown under several regimes of temp were intolerant of sustained temp below 15.6C and above 30C. Thus, "marching" of lobsters across deep straits as previously theorized seems unlikely.
24319693|Evapotranspiration (ET) is an important process of the hydrological cycle, but it is difficult to be accurately estimated. When adequate records of ET for a crop are not available, 2 empirical formulae are commonly used to estimate ET: pan evaporation method and Blaney-Criddle method. According to the results made from both correlation and multiple regression analyses between pan evaporation and climatic factors, it was found that solor radiation was the most important factor affecting ET; temperature was the next important factor. Based on that, the Blaney-Criddle method was modified by using the solar radiation. The result showed that the modified Blaney-Criddle method was more applicable than the other 2 methods. The actual record data of ET for sugarcane, sawgrass, alfalfa, bahiagrass, bare soil, and cane trash were used to establish the vapotranspiration coefficients, which carried with vegetation types and time.
24319438|A proposed procedure for counting middorsal spines provides for a reliable separation of the Atlantic stingray (Dasyatis Sabina) from other sympatric species (D. sayi, D. americana, D. centroura) on the U. S. Atlantic coast. Middorsal spines were apparent when D. Sabina reached 149 to 170 mm disc width and increased with body size. Rate of spine development decreased when disc width reached 250 mm. Rate of spine development was similar in both sexes of D. sabina although females reached a much larger size.
24322280|Current research is demonstrating that turtles can readily navigate through their environment, even to the point of taking the shortest distance between subhabitats or subpopulations. The mechanisms behind large-scale spatial orientation have been attributed to several factors, including following magnetic forces, lunar location, and water currents. However, on smaller scales it is likely that adult turtles have learned the location of surrounding habitats (rather than relying on external spatial cues), and are therefore familiar with the spatial location of nearby resources. The life stage at which turtles begin to explore their environment and become familiar with their surroundings is currently unknown. Using radio telemetry, I investigated whether hatchling gopher tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus) returned to burrows they previously inhabited, indicating they can re-locate learned resources within the environment. Hatchlings returned to previously used burrows, and this was dependent upon the total number of burrows excavated. Body size and longevity did not affect this behavior. The longevity of turtles and tortoises suggests that they may gather spatial information on their surroundings throughout their entire lives. When designing conservation plans it is important to take into account the familiarity of the focal species with surrounding areas so that spatial disorientation does not occur.
24321205|The use of the Lemna minor L. species of duckweed is an emergent technology that may be effective for the removal of nitrogen and phosphorus from enriched waters. The goal of this project is to find a cost-effective method of removing nitrogen and phosphorus from fresh water resources that have received loadings of these nutrients in stormwater runoff. This research examined the uptake of nitrogen and phosphorus by cultures of duckweed, L. minor L., cultivated in the laboratory under controlled environmental conditions. L. minor L. was grown in Plexiglas reactors (1600-mL) using modified Hillman growth medium. The effect of Lemna on phosphorus and nitrogen uptake and plant growth was measured over a two-week period. Two approaches were used: a batch and continuous flow method. For the latter method, a mass balance calculation was performed using measurements of the mass of phosphorus and nitrogen added in the influent, the mass taken up in the growing Lemna biomass, and the mass exiting in the effluent. A mass balance for high nitrogen, low phosphorus media (650 ppm N and 150 ppm P) indicated that 7% of the nitrogen and 10% of the phosphorus was removed by the plant uptake over the 14-day period of operation.
24321084|We document an established population of an Asian agamid lizard commonly called the bloodsucker (Calotes versicolor) in St. Lucie County, Florida. This population was apparently introduced in 1978, and approximately 100 specimens have been captured by two commercial collectors in the past 10 yr. All specimens were captured from nocturnal roosts 19 m high in weeds, vines, bushes, and trees. We deposited voucher specimens consisting of 10 juveniles and an adult female with 19 oviductal eggs captured in August 2003. The known population boundaries extend ca. 10 km east-west and north-south, and they encompass citrus groves, Brazilian pepper fSchinus terebinthifolius) thickets, mesic flatwoods, and canals. We do not know what ecological impacts this species might have on native wildlife species, although it has been documented feeding on small vertebrates in Asia.
24320545|This review synthesizes over 40 years of studies on the ecological resources of the Kissimmee River. Prior to 1962 the Kissimmee River ecosystem supported diverse fish and wildlife populations including waterfowl, wading birds, and a nationally recognized fishery. The historic floodplain consisted of a mosaic of broadleaf marsh, shrub and prairie wetland communities. Between 1962 and 1970 the river was channelized and transformed into a series of impounded reservoirs. The physical impacts of channelization, including alteration of the system's unique hydrologic characteristics, largely eliminated the wetland and fish and wildlife values of the river and floodplain. Attendant "restoration" studies, including the recently completed demonstration project which documented habitat, water quality, avian, fish, and invertebrate responses to water level manipulations, reestablished floodplain inundation, and reintroduced flow, confirmed the feasibility of restoring both the structure and functions of the historic Kissimmee River ecosystem. The integration of available data on pre-channelization resources, impacts of channelization, and restoration-related studies forms the basis of the current plan to restore the ecological integrity of the Kissimmee River.
24321142|From May 1999 through March 2000, a thorough search for dolphin-watching companies was performed and recorded in a database to determine the abundance and distribution of commercial dolphin-watching companies throughout Florida. Companies were classified based on the level and/or type of dolphin-watching they performed. Frequency of tour operation per day and per season was analyzed for Pinellas County. More than 100 dolphin-watching companies were found in Florida. These results indicate dolphin watching is much more abundant throughout Florida than previously believed. Potential effects from high levels of dolphin watching are discussed.
24321800|Eight lakes in central Florida were inspected for their freshwater bryozoan faunal composition. Floatoblasts were sampled by means of a special bryozoan surface net. Nine species were found: Pectinatella magnifica, Plumatella bushnelli, Plumatella casmiana, Plumatella repens, Plumatella reticulata, Plumatella vaihiriae, Plumatella sp., Plumatella geimermassardi, Plumatella vorstmani. The last two are first records for U.S.A. More investigation is needed to determine if the floatoblasts were produced locally or if they were introduced from other lakes by vectors such as migratory birds, fish and boats.
24321667|We assess seagrass status and trends by two methods: (1) seagrass mapping every 23 years since 1986, plus 1943, and (2) monitoring of 59 fixed transects twice a year since 1994. In 2005, there were 26,101 ha of seagrass between Ponce de Leon Inlet and Vero Beach, which is at least as much as the 1943 coverage. Trends based on mapping show an increase in coverage in 12 of the 18 segments from 1994 to 2005. Similarly, average extent of seagrass beds from shore to the deep edge (transect length) increased from 1996 to 1999, then leveled off through 2006. The hurricanes of 2004 did not alter these positive trends, but may have contributed to reduction in seagrass densities in 2006 from Melbourne to Vero Beach.
24320583|Redear sunfish (Lepomis microlophus), largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides), and bluegill sunfish (Lepomis macrochirus) were collected from stormwater ponds and natural lakes and ponds in the Greater Orlando area and analyzed for silver in order to determine: (1) if fish that live in stormwater treatment ponds bioaccumulate significant concentrations of silver and (2) if differences in silver concentrations between species with different foraging strategies occur. Redear sunfish from stormwater ponds (0.458 mg/kg) contained significantly higher (p<0.005) concentrations of silver than fish from control sites (0.001 mg/kg). Largemouth bass and bluegill collected from stormwater ponds (0.419 mg/kg; 0.0278 mg/kg, respectively) contained higher concentrations of silver than those from control sites (0.0418 mg/kg; 0.0014 mg/kg, respectively), but the differences were not statistically significant. No significant (p<0.05) correlations between silver concentration and length and weight of any of the three fish species were found.
24321802|In this study, the amount of living coral was examined over a 3-year period within a frequently used patch reef adjacent to (< 75 m) South Water Caye, Belize, an increasingly popular ecotourist destination for international student-groups and snorkelers. The total number of intact coral formations observed within sampling transects decreased 17.6% from 20062008. The percentage of intact corals that supported living coral tissue differed between years in our study (ANOVA, F=20.695, P<0.001). The percentage of intact corals that supported 100% living coral cover decreased from 14.2% in 2006 to 8.3% in 2008, whereas the percentage of intact corals that supported no living coral tissue increased from 13.2% in 2006 to 24.1% in 2008. Such information on the magnitude and distribution of coral mortality in high use areas is an important component of any strategy to manage tourism on coral reefs.
24320995|Emydid turtles were surveyed in a man-made south Florida pond in 1993 and 1994. A total of 80 Pseudemys nelsoni, 70 Trachemys scripta elegans, and 13 Pseudemys floridana peninsularis were captured and marked. Mean carapace lengths and length to weight relationships for P. nelsoni, T.s. elegans, and P.f. peninsularis were described.
24321739|The invasive green mussel, Perna viridis (Mytilidae), was first reported in Tampa Bay, on the west coast of Florida. Using multiple-choice experiments, we examined whether native predators, the blue crab Callinectes sapidus (Portunidae) and the Caribbean spiny lobster Panulirus argus (Palinuridae), would prey on P. viridis. Predators were offered equal numbers of three bivalve prey: P. viridis, eastern oysters Crassostrea virginica (Ostreidae), and northern quahogs (=hard clams) Mercenaria mercenaria (Veneridae). Consumption was recorded for 1314 days. We found that only blue crabs consumed non-indigenous P. viridis, consuming twice as many green mussels as hard clams or oysters. Spiny lobsters did not consume any P. viridis during the experiment, although green mussel shells showed evidence of chipping along the posterior margins. It is unlikely that foraging by either of these native predators will provide a natural control mechanism for green mussels.
24319785|The participation of males in infant care among the primates is linked to both evolutionary and ecological factors and is positively correlated with the intragroup to intergroup competitive ratio experienced by the primary social group. Not only does such caretaking enhance offspring viability, but it also permits reducing aggressivity within the social group by altering neonatal hormonal secretions, thereby affecting later adult endocrine responses. As most primate societies are comprised of kin groups, the raising of aggression thresholds in high intragroup competitive situations would permit the operation of kin selection and secure enhancement of reproductive success. Conversely, a clear correlation of high male aggressivity and low male caretaking of young is demonstrable throughout the primate order, including the social groups of man.
24321187|Two seepage bogs in Blackwater River State Forest, Okaloosa County, Florida, were surveyed using funnel traps along drift fences for 165 trapping days from 23 September 1998 to 1 September 1999. Fourteen amphibian and 23 reptile species were trapped, and two additional anuran species were heard calling in bogs. Bogs were used by some species from the surrounding pine uplands and provided ideal habitat for Pine Barrens treefrogs (Hyla andersonii), dwarf salamanders (Eurycea cf. quadridigitata), southern coal skinks (Eumeces anthracinus pluvialis), and several snake species. Most species were apparently more common in the herbaceous than the shrub portions of bogs. The species composition of amphibian and reptile communities differed between bogs and often between shrub and herb portions of the same bog. Much of this difference was probably due to incomplete sampling of the herpetofaunal community, but some of the difference was due to habitat variation. The warmest months, June and August, produced the greatest diversity of species. Stream temperatures in shrub bogs never dropped below 10C during the sampling period. Herpetofauna inhabiting seepage bogs is primarily threatened by improper fire frequency or timing, alteration of hydrology, and siltation from and impoundment by roads.
24319953|While using sex-pheromone attractants to collect clearwing moths (Family Sesiidae) in north Florida near the Georgia and Alabama borders, a maple clearwing (Synanthedon acerrubri) not previously recorded in the state was captured at two locations.
24321841|Landscape mulch is applied to plant beds to enhance aesthetics, improve soil characteristics for plant growth, and suppress weed germination. Despite conventional use of mulch, few studies have examined its influence on soil hydrology and impact on urban stormwater runoff and leachate. Eighteen runoff boxes were backfilled with two soils representative of those observed in newly constructed urban landscapes in Central Florida. Pine bark, pine straw (needles), a cypress/pine blend, and shredded rubber tire mulch were applied at depths of 0, 7.6, and 15.2 centimeters (cm). Simulated precipitation was applied at a rate of 2.5 cm per hour (cm hr-1) for a duration of 15 minutes (min) to replicate local historical precipitation patterns. Differences in mulch application depth (between 7.6 and 15.2 cm) did not influence (P0.05) runoff or leachate volumes. Application of cypress/pine, pine bark, and pine straw mulch reduced runoff and leachate volumes and are recommended to minimize nutrient discharge from urban landscapes.
24319948|Four collections of airborne algae obtained along a transect across northcentral Florida yielded 111 species. Fifty-nine were members of the Cyanophyta, 48 of the Chlorophyta, 3 of the Chrysophyta and 1 of the Euglenophyta. The larger number of species isolated in the warmer months are attributed to meteorological conditions and farming activities during this period that provide transport of algal propagules from the disturbed soil.
24321393|Rhizophora mangle L. (red mangrove) is one of the three mangrove species in South Florida. This species is distinguished from the other two species by its aerial prop roots and its elongated viviparous propagules. Although most propagules are abscised from the parent plant between JulySeptember when hypocotyls are >20 cm long, the proportion of propagules surviving to that stage is low. Many propagules are lost prior to being fully developed. This then led to the question: Is seedling survivorship related to its size? Propagules collected ranged from 2.120.1 cm in length, with 40% of propagules <8.0 cm long. There was little variation in seedling morphology across a wide range of sizes. Seedling survivorship was related to propagule size; 42% of propagules <8.0 cm died but all the propagules in the largest size class (17.020.1 cm) survived. Therefore, at time of abscission from the parent plant, approximately 50% of the seedlings were small and not viable. Survivorship probabilities of seedlings could be predicted from linear regression against hypocotyl length, diameter and (fruit + propagule) mass. Causes of mortality are discussed in the context of: (1) nutrient deficiencies, (2) hormonal imbalances or deficiencies, and (3) physiological breakdown.
24319905|The relationships among egg weight, chick weight, yolk sac weight, and carcass weight (chick weight minus y.s. weight) in Bobwhite quail chicks at hatch were determined. Three egg weight groupings (9.6,10.4 and 11.2 g) were used. Chicks were removed from the incubator at 4-hr intervals from the start of hatching and body and yolk sac weights were determined immediately. Larger eggs produced larger chicks with larger yolk sacs and larger carcasses. As egg size increased, the chick weight as a percentage of egg weight increased. Yolk sac as a percentage of chick weight and yolk sac as a percentage of carcass weight were significantly lower for chicks from small eggs. The following correlations were found: egg weight to chick weight, 0.88; egg weight to yolk sac weight, 0.38; chick weight to yolk sac weight, 0.37; egg weight to chick carcass weight, 0.73.
24319433|Those who seek to understand ancient carbonate rocks must first pursue knowledge of modern carbonate depositional environments. Those who study modern carbonates in tropical areas quickly learn that plants and animals exert significant influences upon the depositional environment, affecting the sedimentary record in a variety of ways. Many geologists and paleontologists, therefore, have entered into studies of modern organisms and their effects upon the carbonate sedimentary framework. The foraminifera are important both as members of the biota and as skeletal constituents of carbonate sediments in areas such as south Florida and the Bahamas. Most studies of modern foraminifers from the south Florida-Bahama region have concentrated on distributions among sediment samples, with living and dead populations distinguished on the basis of rose bengal stain. Rose bengal is found to be an unreliable indicator of living specimens and methods of direct observation are suggested for the recognition of live foraminifers. Generally, a larger living population is found on marine vegetation than in the sediments of these areas. The assemblage among the bottom sediments commonly is sorted by waves and currents and does not necessarily accurately reflect the biocoenosis of an area. Attempts must be made to discriminate between those factors of the environment that influence the distribution of living populations and those that determine the thanatocoenosis in the sediments. More biologically oriented investigations are necessary for a better understanding of the foraminifera in their natural habitats. Such investigations should include both field studies and laboratory cultures.
24320397|A comprehensive study (1967-1973) of Key deer resulted in 129 rumen samples from mortalities. Analyses yielded 164 plant foods of which 28 comprised about 75% of the total volume. In order of importance value, red mangrove, black mangrove, Indian mulberry, silver palm, brittle thatch palm, blackbead, grasses, pencil flower, acacia, and sapodilla were the 10 top ranking. Woody browse contributed 42% of total volume; woody plant fruits 27%; palm flowers, fruits and spathes 14%; forbs 13%; and miscellaneous 3%. There was seasonal change in use, reflecting individual plant phenology as related to weather. Clearly evidenced was diversity in the deer's diet suggesting habitat management must address variety between and within plant communities.
24320544|Since Europeans first arrived in Florida, at least 9 vertebrate taxa have been driven to extinction, 5 of which disappeared in the last 50 years. In addition, Florida is home to 56 taxa listed as threatened and endangered, and 44% of all vertebrate taxa in Florida are probably declining. The reason most often cited for the problems now facing Florida wildlife is habitat destruction. Data from the U.S. Forest Service were reviewed to quantify gross changes in land use, land cover, and wildlife habitat over time. During the period 1936-1987, Florida lost 1.74 million ha of forest and 1.57 million ha of herbaceous wetlands to development, predominantly to the expansion of urban areas, agriculture, and range lands. The preponderance of forest land lost was covered by pines (Pinus sp.). Longleaf pine (P. palustris) forests suffered the most, declining 88% in 51 years. At observed rates of loss, longleaf pine forests will disappear from unprotected lands in Florida by 1995, sand pine (P. clausa) scrub forests by 2047, and pond pine (P. serotina) wetlands by 2024. Since 1970, upland hardwood forests have decreased 27%, and forested wetlands have decreased 17%.
24320125|Two additional specimens of the mole snake, Lampropeltis calligaster, and reports of 2 other individuals confirm the occurrence of this wide-ranging species in peninsular Florida. Circumstances of capture and meristic data from the available specimens indicate that these records represent native populations.
24319590|Corniger spinosis is newly reported for the Gulf of Mexico; Pomacentrus fuscus, P. partitus, Pomacanthus arcuatus, and P. paru are new to Pensacola. Pearlfish-sea cucumber symbiosis occurs frequently in the area.
24320057|A pre- and post-storm SCUBA inspection of relative abundance of fish species was conducted at a rock jetty in the northern Gulf of Mexico. As little or no change occurred in the fish fauna between the sampling dates, it is concluded that the storm had little effect on the fauna.
24321791|The intensity of biological interactions between invasive and native fish species may be inferred from the degree of overlap in their food habits and feeding behavior. In this study, the kinematics and mode of prey-capture were compared between young-of-the-year (YOY) native Florida largemouth bass, Micropterus floridanus, and invasive pike killifish, Belonesox belizanus. Principal component analysis revealed a pattern of overlap in prey-capture kinematic space between species. Subsequent t-tests comparing the loading scores of each of the first two principal components, using species as a grouping factor revealed that in general, the kinematics of prey-capture were similar between M. floridanus and B. belizanus. However, both species differed in feeding mode; B. belizanus employs ram-feeding whereas M. floridanus uses ram-suction to capture prey. Similarity in prey-capture kinematics and disparity in feeding mode may facilitate the interaction between these coexisting native and invasive species.
24319673|The habitat requirements of apple snails at Lake Woodruff National Wildlife Refuge were studied during the summer of 1971. Snails were observed throughout the 19,000 acre refuge, but were most abundant in Spring Garden Creek. Three transects were established to sample snail egg clusters as an index of snail abundance. Transects were located at the head, middle, and mouth of the creek to best represent the diversity of water and vegetational conditions. Quadrats along the transects were studied in August and October. Fewer snail egg clusters were found at the mouth than at the head of the creek. Eggs in 70 clusters were counted and the following parameters recorded: range 3-50, mean 28.3, and median 27. Height of 67 egg clusters were: range 0-38", mean 9.1", and median 6". It appeared that snails had no preference for egg laying substrate and used whatever plant species were most available. Seven chemical and physical water characteristics were analyzed. Apparent color and turbidity increased from the head to the mouth of the Creek, while hydrogen ion concentration (pH) decreased. Several snails were observed laying eggs beginning 2 to 3 hr after sunset. Eggs were laid at the approximate rate of 1 every 4 minutes, and total time to lay an average cluster was 1 to 2 hr.
24321071|An inventory of amphibians and reptiles is provided for Everglades National Park (ENP), with special attention to temporal changes associated with the list. The 55 native, non-marine species in ENP comprise 40.4% of the entire native non-marine Florida herpetofauna, whereas 21.1% of Florida's exotic species occur in ENP. The native herpctofauna of ENP is comprised mostly of southeastern U.S. coastal plain species at the southern end of their geographic ranges, and is best represented by snakes and anurans. The status of ten species recorded in areas near the park, but not within the park, remains in question. Taxonomic uncertainties are identified in four polytypic species found in the park. Past changes in, and future predictions regarding, the Park's herpetofauna are associated with activities of humans. In the past 40 years, three species have disappeared from ENP, and six exotic species, mostly lizards, have invaded the park. Changes in species abundance, more than the presence/absence of strongly aquatic and upland species, are predicted to occur following proposed hydrological changes in ENP. New exotic species are likely to appear in ENP because of increases in human traffic in Dade County and the influx of exotic species in southern Florida.
24321235|The effect of colored plastic panels was studied on a model system, duckweed, Lemna minor L., to determine if light could control emergent aquatic plants. Wavelengths of incident light were controlled using three different colored plastics (red, green, and blue), for which the UV-visible spectrum was evaluated using a spectrophotometer. Plants were exposed to light passing through the plastic, and their growth was compared with ordinary light of the same intensity (100 Es/m2/sec. as measured by a light meter). Temperature was maintained at 25  0.2C. Growth was measured by the number of fronds produced as a function of time, a relationship between frond count, fresh weight, and dry weight was established. Plants grown under green plastic (420580 nm) and blue plastic (400470 and 620660 nm) grew less than control samples; plants under red plastic (550700 nm) grew better than control samples.
24320218|Field collections and laboratory bioassay experiments were conducted comparing various rotenone compounds and solutions with regard to their ability to stupefy and kill marine fish. Crystalline rotenone (97% pure rotenone), rotenone resin (42-45% rotenone) and premixed 5% emulsified rotenone solutions were tested as were alcohol, acetone and Aromatic 150 solvents. Marine fish and invertebrates tested were both effected by emulsified rotenone while crystalline rotenone was more specific for fish and not the marine invertebrates tested. The pure emulsifier, ATLOX 3335, caused fatalities in Cyprinodon variegatus.
24319682|The species was first found in west Florida near Sumatra along Owl Creek.
24320947|A recent review of control and mitigation cirteria for red tide is reviewed, misunderstandings are corrected, and alternative points of view are presented. In particular, literature concerning marine allelopathy seems to have been neglected, criteria for an effective control agent are reviewed, and advantages of a degradable organic compound versus a non-degradable inorganic substance are considered. An attempt is made to overcome some evident misunderstandings and misconceptions that appear to exist in the literature.
24319399|A stereotyped behavior pattern exhibited by dolphins preying upon mullet in the northern Gulf of Mexico is briefly described.
24319707|I discuss 2 topics in the philosophy of space which are related to fundamental questions in mathematics: the dimensionality of the space continuum and Zeno's arrow paradox. For the former, it is demonstrated how the discipline called dimension theory in topology, coupled with real-world data, completely settles the question, though not without some subtlety. However, for the latter it is argued that the explication offered by rigorously formulated differential calculus, though logically unassailable, actually skirts the phenomenological issue, which is discussed and tentatively identified.
24319401|Known range is extended 75 km eastward.
24319666|Range of the introduced Brazilian shrimp is extended 190 km northward to Volusia County.
24320179|This paper describes the introduction of Asian rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta, subfamily Cercopithecinae) into the area in and around Silver Springs, Florida, in 1938 and the subsequent history of the monkeys.
24319971|The Engineering Sciences Section of FAS held a panel discussion at the 1988 Annual Meeting to discuss ways in which engineers impact Florida's Economy. Representatives of engineering education, construction engineering, high-technology industry, health and safety engineering, agricultural engineering, municipal engineering and space engineering all outlined specific impacts and made suggestions for increasing these impacts in positive ways. The panel and the FAS Section feel that these need wider dissemination to Florida's scientists and engineers.
24321824|Scrub pawpaw (Asimina obovata), is a characteristic but scattered long-lived shrub in upland Florida ecosystems. We report on results of two field germination experiments that help define its requirements for seed germination and seedling survival. In our first experiment (begun in 1999), germination rates were low (7%) and nearly all seeds germinated under shrubs (vs. in gaps). Some of these seedlings survived a 2001 fire by resprouting. A larger second experiment (2002) showed that time-since-fire and nearby canopy height were the best predictors of germination ( overall rate 42%). Locations with intermediate time-since-fire or intermediate canopy height had higher germination. In both experiments, we did not find evidence that protection from mammalian herbivory by caging affected observed germination. Although most germination occurred during the first year, calculations suggest about 20% of seeds enter a persistent seed bank, 30% of seeds survive in the seed bank annually, and 30% of surviving seeds can germinate in each of the next three years. Seedling survival through 2009 from the 2002 experiment was high (usually > 80% annually) and unaffected by caging. Survival varied among sites and was highest in the long-unburned site. Although pawpaw persists at frequently burned sites by resprouting, seed germination and seedling recruitment are favored by infrequent fires.
24320337|Epibenthic marine fish populations were sampled in order to establish quantitative baseline data for use in long-term monitoring of the northern Indian River lagoon system, Florida. Fish samples were taken by trawling monthly at 8 fixed stations from June through September 1979 and 1980. Fifty-seven species representing 29 families were collected. The community was numerically dominated by a very few species. Anchoa mitchilli alone accounted for 87% of the 105,853 individuals collected. Abundance, dominance, and species diversity were compared among the 3 lagoon subdivisions  Mosquito Lagoon, Indian River, and Banana River. Greater numbers of fishes were collected in the Indian River, whereas the highest diversity levels were in the Banana River. Although most species were collected in all 3 subareas, inequities occurred in the numbers of individuals taken. For example. Mosquito Lagoon produced significantly more Micropogonias undulatus and Leiostomus xanthurus than either the Indian or Banana rivers. Significantly more Syngnathus scovelli and Anchoa mitchilli were collected in Indian River than in Banana River, and Banana River produced significantly more Lagodon rhombodes than did Indian River. The only measured environmental parameters that appeared to be significant in determining fish populations were vegetative cover and salinity. An importance value (IV) index, combining relative abundance, relative frequency of capture, and relative size (biomass) per individual, was calculated for each species in the community. Dominance ranking by IV has advantages over dominance ranking by relative abundance alone and is valuable for making comparisons in a long-term monitoring study.
24319420|A survey was conducted of first year biology textbooks and their utilization in Florida public high schools in the Spring of 1974. Of the 278 high schools listed in the Florida Educational Directory, 140 schools were randomly selected. Textbook utilization throughout the state was compared by geographic regions, school size and community size. Instructional time tended to be greater in small schools in small communities while the laboratory time tended to be greater in medium size schools in urban communities.
24319384|The Florida Solar Energy Center was established in 1975, pursuant to legislative directive in 1974, with authorization to conduct research, disseminate information, and develop demonstration projects relating to solar energy utilization in Florida. Under the State Board of Regents, the Center is developing and conducting a variety of programs in research, development, demonstrations, education, information dissemination, and energy systems analysis. Federal research programs in solar energy are related to the programs of the Center and have impact upon the work pursued there. The congressional mandate for establishing a national solar energy research institute has resulted in both optimism and intense proposal effort within Florida to have that research institute headquartered within the state. The Solar Energy Center interacts with a task force appointed by the Governor of Florida which has responsibility for preparation of the state's proposal. Utilization of solar energy is possible in a variety of ways. Some end uses of solar energy are technologically feasible now; some systems are approaching economic feasibility in comparison with other forms of energy; and some systems require significantly more research to establish their feasibility. Commercialization of solar energy will proceed at a rate consistent with the progress in research and development for advancing systems feasibility. As solar energy technology advances, the Solar Energy Center will continue programs of current information dissemination and training. The Center is promoting and coordinating this effort in Florida and is directly involved in research and development work with support and participation from many other organizations and individuals.
24320336|Variations in concentrations of pore water constituents in sediments beneath mangrove communities in the Indian River lagoon are related to the physiology of the mangroves and tidal inundation regimes of the sediments. Both Rhizophora mangle and Avicennia germinans increase concentrations of sulfate and chloride in pore water by partial exclusion of salts from water taken up by transpiration. Sulfate is excluded by the plants to a greater extent than chloride, elevating pore water sulfate: chlorinity ratios. Changes in pore water sulfide, iron, phosphate, and nitrate concentrations appear to be coupled to seasonal and shorter term variations in tidal inundation frequency. Differences in sulfide concentrations of the 2 zones suggest that heterotrophic microbial activity is greater in Rhizophora sediments than in Avicennia sediments. Total rates of microbial metabolism may be similar in both zones if microorganisms in Avicennia sediments utilize a wider range of terminal electron acceptors than are available in Rhizophora sediments. Large variations in the dissolved Fe concentrations of Avicennia pore water may mean that iron serves as an important terminal electron acceptor for heterotrophic microorganisms.
24320023|Urban wet detention system investigations were conducted at a commercial shopping mall in Boynton Beach, FL. This study site possessed a permitted drainage area of 25.4 ha (62.8 ac), which was approximately 90 percent impervious. The water management area consisted of three interconnected ponds, each approximately 1.2 ha (3 ac), totaling 3.5 ha (8.7 ac). This site was instrumented with automatic water quality samplers to collect storm-generated runoff samples. In addition, digital stage measurement equipment continually monitored and recorded both surface and ground water elevation. Storm event sampling was initiated upon advent of rainfall in excess of 1.3 cm (0.5 in) of precipitation over the watershed boundaries. Surface runoff inflow automatic samplers were flow proportionally activated by an electromagnetic flow sensor device. Surface water results indicate the following treatment efficiencies for select nutrients: NOx-N = 87 percent, NH4-N = 55 percent, TKN = 58 percent, o-PO4-P = 69 percent, T-PO4-P = 76 percent, and TSS = 91 percent. These results were collated with previous results in the literature and comparisons indicated superior treatment efficiencies.
24321581|Large aggregations of juvenile lemon sharks, Negaprion brevirostris, have been repeatedly documented along Atlantic beaches of Cape Canaveral, east-central Florida, since November 2003. These sharks commonly inhabited sheltered longshore troughs along an otherwise high-energy coastline, a behavior facilitating both observation and collection. Repeated visual surveys along a fixed beach transect over a 16 month period, as well as 12 months of subsequent observations at other beach locations, demonstrated that lemon sharks, while present year-round, were most abundant from November through March at water temperatures ranging from 18 to 22C in densities up to 21.8 animals/km. Shore-based sampling yielded 267 juveniles from 48149 cm precaudal length (PCL) with a female : male sex ratio of 1.05 : 1. Tag returns to date suggest a northward spring migration as far as North Carolina (645 km). High lemon shark density may be the result of a predator refugia and foraging opportunities provided the region's expansive sub-tidal shoals as well as the protection from harvest afforded by a local de facto 250 km2 no-take marine reserve which was in place from 2001 to 2007. These findings indicate that nearshore waters of Cape Canaveral serve as one of the most valuable lemon shark nurseries in U.S. waters.
24321255|A survey was conducted by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to assess habitat quality on the St. Marks National Wildlife Refuge (NWR). Sediment samples were collected at 32 sites within (n = 14) or north (n = 18) of the NWR. The survey showed only site and use-specific contamination. Much of the surveyed area possessed little or no contaminant residues. Sediment composition around St. Marks NWR was comparable to coastal areas of the northeastern Gulf of Mexico. Metal contamination of sediments was not found on-refuge but was found at 6 off-refuge sites and included moderate concentrations of copper and mercury. Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) contamination was also not found on-refuge, however, off-refuge PAH contamination was slightly more widespread than metal contamination being found at 9 off-refuge sites. No organochlorine contamination was detected in samples taken on or off-refuge. Sixteen sites, including both on and off-refuge sites, were found to have relatively high concentrations of aliphatic hydrocarbons. Oil and grease contamination was found at 11 sites total, but at only 1 site on the NWR. The survey objective was to provide baseline information from which to determine the need for additional monitoring and for use in developing management strategies.
24321592|Presence of Cryptotis parva and Blarina carolinensis within Everglades National Park has not been documented in over 30 years. Between February 2007 and February 2008 we conducted live trapping, field reconnaissance, and an examination of owl pellets in Everglades National Park. We captured one C. parva and sighted one C. parva and two B. carolinensis. Dissection of owl pellets revealed five C. parva and 16 B. carolinensis. Analysis of owl pellets was the most effective method of detecting presence of shrews.
24321439|The response of Old World climbing fern (OWCF) and non-target vegetation to herbicide and fire was evaluated in three disturbed habitats in southern Florida. Aerial herbicide application and prescribed fire occurred at two sites, and a ground herbicide treatment with no prescribed fire occurred at one site. Significant (P < 0.008) reductions in OWCF cover at all three study sites were observed compared to pre-treatment cover. A significant increase in species richness (P = 0.002) and diversity (P = 0.0003) was detected following post-aerial treatments in open canopy freshwater marsh habitat, with most of these species being non-native graminoids and forbs. In hydric hammock, we observed no significant increase in species richness (P = 0.61) or diversity (P = 0.92), but we observed a shift towards non-native forbs. In the maple swamp where ground treatments were conducted, no significant difference in species richness (P = 0.34) was noted, but a significant difference (P < 0.0001) in native species diversity was detected. We hypothesized that herbicide treatment followed by prescribed fire creates open niches that provide opportunities for more competitive non-native plants. In disturbed habitat in Florida, land managers controlling OWCF may observe a shift from OWCF to other non-native plants.
24321652|We examined the riparian vegetation along the five main tributaries to Estero Bay, Lee County. Florida. Riparian vegetation serves as a non-motile integrator of salinity conditions over time, and may prove useful for detecting shifting salinity gradients associated with altered freshwater flow. An objective of this project was to refine our understanding of the freshwater/estuarine interface in the Estero Bay tributaries, using riparian vegetation as ecosystem indicators. We directly sampled 0.9 ha and documented 126 plant species or genera. Variation in riparian vegetation communities among tributaries and position along tributaries seemed to be related to degree and period of land use change. We examined changes in riparian vegetation through analysis of aerial photography from 1966, 1981 and 2002. Historic patterns of shifts in riparian vegetation communities of Estero Bay tributaries are dominated by a loss of upland vegetation and an increase in human modified landscapes. A suite of freshwater and saltwater indicator species proved useful in distinguishing among tributaries, and particularly between positions along the tributaries. These indicator groups may be utilized for: documenting the ecological effects of alterations in freshwater flow; establishing restoration performance measures; and establishing Minimum Flows and Levels for tidally influenced streams of SW Florida.
24319737|Forty-four species and 6 varieties of diatoms (Bacillariophyta) collected from the upper Big Wekiwa River in Central Florida are listed.
24321580|Larvae of Cuterebra species (Diptera: Oestridae) typically parasitize either native rodents or lagomorphs in the Americas, but they can also infest domestic dogs, cats and other atypical hosts. This affliction (cuterebrosis) can seriously impact the health of these animals, but little is known about its geographic and seasonal occurrence, and the causative species have seldom been identified. In this report, a second instar of a Cuterebra sp. removed from the nasal passage of a domestic dog in Lake Co., Florida, is described, illustrated and tentatively identified. Based especially on its serpentine posterior spiracles, it is C. cuniculi, a lagomorph-infesting species apparently found only in Florida and Georgia. This appears to be the first published record for Florida of a domestic dog with respiratory cuterebrosis, and only the second published, substantiated record of canid cuterebrosis in the state.
24319501|Compartmentalization within science at the university level has led to narrower specialization in education and to a breakdown of basic unity in science. Commonly, the method of science is inadequately treated in both science courses and textbooks. Science education should stress individual experience, development of self-reliance, sharpening of the critical observational powers, and an interdisciplinary approach to problem solving. In our field course in nearshore marine environments in the Florida Keys for biology and geology students we try to stress these elements. Students are introduced to basic principles and concepts and to fundamental data as a basis for field work in the south Florida area. After a field-oriented introduction to the region, they concentrate upon developing and carrying out a research project. Normally, students from biology and geology work together on projects.
24320532|Florida sand pine scrub is a community type found on well-drained ridges and dunes. Some of these uplands escaped the periodic flooding of the Florida Peninsula. Organisms of Florida scrub are adapted to sterile sand, drought, and fire. Some species appear to be relicts. An annotated list identified 46 species of scrub endemic arthropods. Species are concentrated on the central ridges, especially the Lakes Wales Ridge. There appear to be cases of divergent evolution on different scrub islands. The high proportion of flightless species in the list may not reflect adaptation for island life. Detailed studies of biogeography of scrub endemic arthropods may be thwarted by rapid eradication of many scrub sites.
24320010|From 1975-1982 the hydrologic and vegetation response of selected cypress domes and marshes in the Cypress Creek Well Field to deep underground pumping was compared to similar sites far removed from water production activities. After water production began, 5 of the 7 wellfield study sites experienced 1 to 5 consecutive years without standing surface water. Control sites had some surface water each year despite differences in yearly precipitation. Wellfield study sites with at least 2 yr without surface water showed a complete loss of typical deep-water aquatic plant species such as pickerelweed (Pontederia cordata) and rush (Juncus repens). At various wellfield impacted sites, maidencane (Panicum hemitomon), willow (Salix caroliniana), blue maidencane (Amphicarpum muhlenbergianum), dog fennel (Eupatorium capillifolium) and buttonweed (Diodia virginiana) became abundant. Vegetation at the control sites was quite stable from 1 yr to the next.
24320469|The demography of gopher tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus) is poorly known. We excavated 1019 tortoise burrows and determined the size class distribution of a west-central Florida population of gopher tortoises. We captured 400 tortoises. Both very small juveniles and very large adults were poorly represented in this population, relative to intermediate sized individuals. The estimated annual mortality rate was 92.3% from nest-egg through the first year of life. Using the correction factor (0.614) frequently employed to estimate tortoise population size, results in an overestimate of this population by a factor of 1.4. We caution against the generic use of this correction factor to estimate tortoise population size and suggest using site- or habitat-specific correction factors.
24320475|Studies were conducted from April to September, 1988, on the feeding ecology, dietary overlap, diel patterns of activity and temperature relationships of sympatric populations of the eastern spadefoot toad (Scaphiopus holbrooki) and the southern toad (Bufo terrestris) from Hillsborough Co., FL. A high degree of dietary overlap was found. Insects such as Coleoptera (19-31%) and Formicidae (12-18%), as well as spiders (8-11%), comprised a significant proportion (39-60%) of the diet by volume during spring and summer months. Termites comprised 7-1% of the diet during the spring. No significant overall dietary differences were found between sexes or seasons. Both species were active at body temperatures ranging from 23.5 to 24.4C. Bufo terrestris was not observed at the surface before 2000 hr. The peak period of ground surface activity was 2100-0100 h for S. holbrooki and 2200-0300 h for B. terrestris.
24320261|Twenty major groups of extinct animals with a good fossil record had some of the following characteristics. There is an uncommonly high percentage of suspension feeders and colonial animals. Most of the colonial animals were probably suspension feeders. Seventeen of these groups of animals were confined to a marine habitat and all were aquatic. None had a skeleton composed of silica. The skeletal material in these animals was calcareous, phosphatic, or chitinous, or some combination of these materials.
24320610|This work explores surface interactions between gypsum and selected prominent gaseous emissions in to the atmosphere. Gypsum is a common air-borne mineral particulate that has a potential two-fold relationship to the air pollution problem: as a particulate pollutant and as a catalyst or adsorbent for pollutant gases. The Florida atmosphere represents a situation where sources of gypsum particulates are especially abundant from both natural sources and anthropogenic activities. This work explored the adsorption of eight gases (nitric oxide, nitrous oxide, ammonia, hydrogen sulfide, carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, oxygen, and propane) at 24C as representative of gases present in the atmosphere. Propane, hydrogen sulfide, and oxygen were not adsorbed at pressures less than one atmosphere. Coverages were related to a monolayer based upon a surface area of 17.0 m2/gm as determined from a nitrogen adsorption isotherm and the B.E.T. method. Multilayer coverages were observed for ammonia, nitric oxide, carbon dioxide, and sulfur dioxide. Both reversible and irreversible adsorption were observed. Irreversible coverages of 0.52, 0.37, 0.41, and 0.33 monolayer were observed for SO2, CO2, NO, and NH3, respectively. Nitrous oxide and carbon monoxide did not have an irreversible component to their adsorption.
24321594|Identifying adult frog species in the field generally is straightforward; however, differentiating among tadpoles may be less clear and may complicate conservation and management activities. We described both the qualitative and quantitative morphological differences of tadpoles of a rare endemic species, Florida Bog Frog (Rana okaloosae), and a more common heterospecific, Bronze Frog (Rana clamitans clamitans). Rana okaloosae tadpoles had more pronounced tail spotting, greater pigmentation on the tail, and more defined ventral spotting than R. c. clamitans. The mean proportional tail height of fresh specimens and preserved specimens of R. c. clamitans was greater than R. okaloosae (fresh: P = 0.043, t = -2.10, n = 20/species; preserved: P = 0.026, t = -2.43, n = 10/species). The mean proportional length of the P3 tooth row was greater in R. c. clamitans than in R. okaloosae (P < 0.0001, t = 9.58, n = 10 and 5, respectively). In the field, qualitative assessment of tail coloration and ventral spotting patterns appear useful in identifying tadpoles of these species. Additionally, the differences in the length of the P3 tooth rows may help to positively identify the two species of tadpoles, but will only be feasible for anaesthetized or preserved specimens.
24320058|Stomach analyses were performed on 53 white marlin, Tetrapturus albidus; 11 sailfish, Istiophorus platypterus; and 5 blue marlin, Makaira nigricans captured in the Gulf of Mexico, 30-100 km S of Pensacola, Florida from May to October, 1974. Stomach content analyses were conducted using frequency of occurrence, numerical, and gravimetric (wet wt) methods. Stomachs of white marlin and sailfish most frequently contained Euthynnus sp., Auxis sp., squid, and Atlantic moonfish, Vomer setapinnis. White marli were also reported for the first time feeding on barracuda and puffers. Thunnus sp., Euthynnus sp., and Auxis sp. were most common food items of blue marlin, however, cephalopods may be of some importance in their diet.
24321812|This literature review relates to the ecological roles of native crayfish, Procambarus alleni (Everglades crayfish) and P. fallax (slough crayfish) in Everglades food webs. In freshwater wetlands, these keystone species influence community structure, alter landscape, and as herbivores and detritivores, enhance microbial decomposition and nutrient cycling. Crayfish are consumed by more than 40 species of vertebrate predators, and often are predators themselves. Hydrological and seasonal conditions affect crayfish abundance and distribution, and ecological roles. Researchers have relied on studies of crayfish from lakes and streams, with little focus on wetlands and on species-specific predator-prey roles and life histories of native crayfish. Presented here is a conceptual model of native crayfish relationships in Everglades food webs, and lists of possible prey and predators of these two species. Trophic roles of these crayfish may differ. The more aggressive P. alleni could be to top aquatic predators during times of low water levels and the initial return of the rainy season, while the less aggressive P. fallax may also function as top aquatic predators under other hydrological conditions. Future studies, including isotopic analyses, are needed to better understand the roles of both species in Everglades food webs.
24321983|Central Florida's Volusia Blue Spring is a hypoxic freshwater spring containing a large population of the non-indigenous air-breathing loricariid Pterygoplichthys disjunctivus. Our primary objectives were to describe the respiratory anatomy and air-breathing behavior of P. disjunctivus. We found that P. disjunctivus has gill filaments partially covered by fleshy gill rakers, and a large gastric air-breathing organ encased by an inelastic fibrous sheath, similar to that described in several other loricariids. We had hypothesized that P. disjunctivus would surface for air more frequently at the anoxic headspring (dissolved oxygen (DO) = 0.10 mg/L) than 360 meters downstream, where the DO is five times higher, however, this was not supported by our data. Because many air-breathing fish exhibit group surfacing behaviors to avoid predation, we had also hypothesized that P. disjunctivus would display temporal aggregation during air-breathing activity, and this hypothesis was supported. Our field results, along with laboratory observations of captive P. disjunctivus relying exclusively on oxygenated water, suggest that this species is a facultative air-breather with a DO threshold higher than that found in the Blue Spring run.
24321227|The alligator snapping turtle, Macroclemys temminckii, is capable of detecting and responding to the presence of chemosensory cues from two naturallyoccurring prey species, the Mississippi mud turtle, Kinosternon subrubrum, and the common musk turtle, S. odoratus. Preference tests were conducted in an experimental chamber in which juveniles of M. temminckii were exposed to dechlorinated water in one-half of the chamber and an odor plume from water that had been occupied by either S. odoratus or K. subrubrum. Juveniles of M. temminckii spent significantly more time in water containing prey odor cues and also exhibited more rapid movements and more frequent episodes of gular pumping, as compared to those exhibited by turtles in untreated water. The ability to utilize odor cues is discussed with respect to detection of prey and patch residence time.
24320751|In this paper we report a case of predation by squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus) on a solitary-roosting evening bat (Nycticeius sp., Veristomillidae). The monkeys, translocated to South Florida from South America, now inhabit a 35 acre home range on which they have been established for decades. The monkeys were successful in obtaining bat prey despite the presence of potential competitors for that prey, e.g., raccoons. Predation upon bats is very rare among nonhuman primates. This report is the only confirmed instance of bat predation by nonhuman primates living in Florida, and the only report for this species. Only squirrel monkeys of the closely related S. oerstedii species have been reported to be regular predators on bats in Costa Rica. The monkeys we observed have successfully adapted their foraging behavior to this unique South Florida habitat despite their having originated elsewhere in the Neotropics.
24319747|The morphological development of 27 prenatal Key deer (Odocoileus virginianus clavium) was described in 10 stages encompassing the late embryo and late fetus. Ages were estimated by interpolations involving length or the cube root of weight and assigned ages of youngest and oldest specimens. The chronological emergence of 37 characteristics was evaluated within Odocoileus. Although broad generic similarity was found, 3 discrepancies of 16-32 da were noted between the northern white-tailed deer (O. v. borealis) and the Rocky Mountain mule deer (O. hemionus hemionus). Comparisons involving O. v. clavium revealed inter- and intraspecific discrepancies greater than likely aging error. Based on the relative distribution of these differences, the chronology for O. v. clavium seemed no more similar to that of O. v. borealis than to that of O. h. hemionus. Also, 4 of the characteristics that reportedly developed at similar times in O. v. borealis were not synchronous in O. v. clavium. A rank order analysis indicated that the relative development of selected integumentary traits was less variable in Key deer than has been reported for the Columbian blacktail (O. h. columbianus).
24319846|Our method for fixation of the chick's inner ear involves puncturing the soft temporal bone with a needle and directly flushing the membranous labyrinth with cold glutaraldehyde. The temporal bone is trimmed and immersed in the same cold, aerated fixative. This improved method eliminates the need to perfuse through the oval window and preserves better than vascular perfusion. The method is easy to perform and with practice can be completed in 45-60 sec.
24319576|Sphaerodactylus cinereus Wagler is shown to be the name for the Hispaniolan lizard currently called S. stejnegeri Cochran. The proper name for the former is S. elegans MacLeay. S. cinereus (sensu nobis) has 2 subspecies: S. c. cinereus which occupies the Cul de Sac plain in Haiti, and S. c. stejnegeri which occurs in northern Haiti from Gonaves east to St. Michel de l'Atalaye, and south along the Golfe de la Gonve as far as Pont Sond and St. Marc. No intergrades are known. An isolated population at Plaine Thoman on the northern slopes of the Massif de la Selle remains unnamed.
24321122|The late Pleistocene (Rancholabrean) fossil record of harvest mice in Florida consists of two species, Reithrodontomys humulis and Reithrodontomys fulvescens. The only extant species in the state is R. humulis, which occurs at four Rancholabrean localities. Today, R. fulvescens occurs only as far east as Mississippi, but is represented by a single mandible from Vero, Indian River County, Florida. This specimen was previously identified as R. humulis and later as Peromyscus polionotus, but dental and osteological characters permit confident allocation to R. fulvescens. This is the first synoptic description of fossil harvest mice from the Rancholabrean of Florida.
24320651|Larval growth of the flatwoods salamander, Amby stoma cingulatum, is describedfor two populations on the Gulf Coastal Plain of Florida. Hatchling larvae measured 7.5-11.5 mm snout-vent length (SVL). Estimates of growth and length of larval period varied from 1.69 to 2.54 mm/week and 11 to 18 weeks depending on site and cohort. Size at metamorphosis was similar between animals held in the lab (mean = 39 mm SVL) and animals observed in the field (mean = 42 mm SVL). The metamorphic process required approximately 10 days in the lab and involved a sequential series of changes in morphology and pigmentation.
24320652|Platinum compounds are of interest because of their antitumor activity. The best known example is "Cisplatin", cis-diamminedichloroplatinum(II) (cis-Pt(NH3)2Cl2), which is effective against a variety of human tumors. More recent studies have shown that nitric oxide produced by macrophages in the body can kill or stop the proliferation of tumor cells. This work explores the synthesis of Pt(TV) complexes by action of nitrogen dioxide gas, NO2, on aqueous monoethylenediamine Pt(II) solutions, or by action of nitric oxide gas, NO, on solutions of the complex in 2 M HNO3. In these systems, rapid oxidation ofplatinum(II) occurs which produces a blue intermediate, presumably a platinum(TV) nitrosyl complex, Pt-NO. These species undergo further oxidation in air at slower rates, which are a function of counter ions to produce pale yellow solutions from which the Pt(IV) nitro complexes, [Pt(en)(NO2)(Cl)3], and possibly [Pt(en)(NO2)3Cl], and the complexes or mixtures of [Pt(en)(NO2)(ONO)2(Cl)], [Pt(en)(NO2)3(ONO)2], and [Pt(en)(NO2)(ONO)3] were obtained. Physical measurements on [Pt(en)(NO2)(ONO)2Cl] and [Pt(en)(NO2)(ONO)3] complexes suggest that in vivo reduction may occur to give "Cisplatin " type drugs and NO for inhibiting or immobilizing cancer tumor cells.
24319848|The Midas cichlid, Cichlasoma citrinellum, is a polychromatic fish native to Nicaragua and Costa Rica whose color morphs range from cryptic gray to bright orange. In 1981 an established population of the Midas cichlid was discovered in a south Florida canal that contains 6 other species of established exotic fishes. Preliminary food habit studies indicate Midas cichlids in Florida feed on molluscs and other benthic material. A mean lower lethal temperature of 13 C was determined experimentally indicating range expansion in Florida may be limited to the area south of Tampa (approximately latitude 28N). This species brings the total number of established exotic fishes in Florida to 16, of which 11 belong to the family Cichlidae.
24320646|On 25 January 1994, a basking shark, Cetorbinus maximus, estimated to be 4.5 m TL (Total Length) was observed actively feeding along a distinct ocean surface front, which was oriented north to south in the offshore waters near Cape Canaveral, Florida. Satellite observations and surface oceanographic measurements made in the area revealed an acute sea surface temperature and clarity difference across the front. Additionally, seaweed (Sargassum sp.) and anthropogenic debris had collected along the interface between the two apparent water masses, making the zone visible for several kilometers. The shark was feeding at the surface along the warmer and more clear eastern side of the frontal boundary. This observation, coupled with past records, lends further support to the hypothesis that fronts may serve as important foraging areas for basking sharks.
24312041|Except for the very largest species of calcareous benthonic Foraminiferida (10 mm or larger), there appears to be only a slight trend toward a higher percentage of large-sized species in warm water. The agglutinated Foraminiferida have a slight trend toward larger size in cold water, and all of the largest species (20 to 40 mm) live in water that is less than 5 C.
24320546|Clutch viability of American alligators was evaluated on lakes Apopka, Griffin, Jessup, and Okeechobee, Florida, during 1983-86 to examine its association with alligator population trends. Clutch viability was lower (P < 0.05) on Lake Apopka and higher (P < 0.05) on Lake Griffin than on any other lake. Annual clutch viability rates declined (P < 0.05) on Lake Apopka during the study, but no trends in viability rate were detected on other lakes. Juvenile alligator density was relatively stable during 1980-87 on lakes Griffin and Jessup, but plunged to 10% of the 1980 level on Lake Apopka (P = 0.002), coincident with falling clutch viability. Viability rates were not related to clutch size but did increase with clutch weight (P = 0.013). Egg banding rates declined on lakes Apopka and Jessup and increased on lakes Griffin and Okeechobee. Unexplained mortality of large alligators was commonly observed on Lake Apopka. We discuss several possible causes of low clutch viability including pesticide contamination, shifts in the age structure of the breeding population, and density-related stress of the adult population, and we recommend a course for further investigation.
24319946|Monthly phytoplankton and zooplankton sampling at 12 stations in the upper and middle St. Johns River between October, 1983 and May, 1984 provided data for comparison with historical taxonomic data. Although zooplankton communities varied in composition throughout the river, the phytoplankton data revealed several trends. Centrate diatoms and single celled green algae, primarily Chlorella and Chlorococcum, were common in the upper river, which was characterized by low chlorophyll a. The blue greens Anacystis, Anabaena and Lyngbya were dominant in the more eutrophic middle section of the river, however. Periodic bloom conditions of blue green algae have been noted previously in the upper river lakes, and blooms also occurred during this study. These blooms may be related to high nutrient loading from agricultural pumping activities.
24319570|Blue crabs (Callinectes sapidus) fed on the scyphomedusae Cyanea capillata and Stomolophus meleagris.
24321903|Despite well established relationships between urban stormwater runoff and water quality degradation, few studies have examined disturbed landscape soil hydrology under varying conditions. Confounding variables in landscapes may be responsible for the lack of available data. Eighteen runoff boxes were backfilled with three soils representative of those observed in newly constructed urban landscapes in Central Florida to examine the influence of soil physical properties, antecedent soil moisture, and precipitation rate on stormwater runoff and leachate. At lowest antecedent soil moisture (40% plant available water) or lowest precipitation rate (2.5 centimeters per hour [cm hr-1]) tested, runoff and leachate volumes were negligible. However, significant runoff and leachate was observed at higher antecedent soil moisture levels (70% and 90% plant available water) and precipitation rates (5.1 and 7.6 cm hr-1). Soil infiltration rates among soils were greater than assessed precipitation intensities, yet significant runoff was recorded. This suggests infiltration measurements may not be a reliable indicator of stormwater runoff potential. Rather, stormwater runoff should be estimated through development and use of empirically derived models.
24320340|Three sites in the Indian River, Florida were studied to determine primary production in seagrass meadows. Production rates were obtained for 3 species of seagrasses (Thalassia testudinum, Syringodium filiforme and Halodule wrightii), associated epiphytic flora, benthic microalgae and phytoplankton. Photosynthetic rates for Indian River seagrasses in March and July ranged between 0.009-0.395 mg C/g dry wt-h for H. wrightii, 0.005-0.79 for T. testudinum, and 0.009-1.72 for S. filiforme. Epiphytic productivity per g dry wt varied considerably between stations and from season to season. Productivity maxima for H. wrightii and S. filiforme occurred at the Jim Island station; Thalassia testudinum demonstrated maximum photosynthetic response at Link Port. Phytoplankton, benthic microalgae and epiphytic production were similar at each station and increased slightly from March to July. However, their absolute importance in community productivity changed dramatically depending upon the contribution of the seagrass species.
24321582|A long-term investigation of the group characteristics and social affiliation patterns of Atlantic coast bottlenose dolphins was carried out in the Indian River Lagoon (IRL), Florida. Group characteristics and photo-identification data were collected during 477 boat-based surveys conducted in the IRL from 1996 to 2004. A total of 2,132 groups were encountered and photographed over the study period. Group size averaged 4.1 (SD = 3.43) and did not vary by season, but was higher during some yearly periods, and for sightings in the afternoon than in the morning. Further, groups with at least one calf (x = 5.5, SD = 3.80) were larger than groups without calves (x = 2.4, SD = 1.85). Overall, half-weight Coefficients of Association (COA) indices for these frequently sighted dolphins ranged from 0.09 to 0.83 (maximum values), showed that they preferentially associate and that associations were higher within sex class than between sex class. In the aggregate, IRL group characteristics mirrored those found in other southeastern U.S. bays and estuaries and suggest that similar behavioral processes are important across these different locations. These processes include: resource and habitat optimizing while foraging and forming affiliations, and developing a balance between the demands of foraging, predator defense and maternal care.
24321896|The impact of nitric acid (HNO3) and ozone (O3) on the bulk degradation of several graphitic structures including single walled nanotubes, multiwalled nanotubes (MWNT), graphite dust, and exfoliated graphite is measured quantitatively. While these oxidizing agents are accepted approaches to open the end caps of nanotubes, both compounds significantly degrade the graphitic compounds as measured by mass loss. FT-Raman spectroscopy is used to measure the impact on the different carbonaceous structures.
24320653|Measurements of chemical properties of spring water from an active tufa-forming site in Illinois, and an analysis of published data from four tufa sites in England have identified properties of water that involve tufa formation. These properties include a pH less than 8.34, a partial pressure of dissolved CO2 hyperbaric with respect to its normal atmospheric partial pressure, and supersaturation with respect to calcite. We suggest tufa formation is also aided by filamentous algae which provide crystal nucleation sites and a holding mass for water to accommodate CO2 diffusion and the slow kinetics of calcite formation.
24319945|This study addresses the effects of a childbirth preparation program which includes education concerning the cultural influences that shape birthing experiences and the use of biofeedback-assisted relaxation techniques to facilitate labor and delivery. Methodology included utilizing hospital medical records to determine time in labor and use of medications, a post-delivery questionnaire and recorded interview, and participant observation of a number of the subjects during their labor and delivery (N = 8). The subject's time in labor was reduced (31 percent for first time mothers; 51 percent for those with prior birth experience), medications required were minimal and responses to the post-delivery interviews indicated successful incorporation of culturally specific information to individual needs. The childbirth preparation program which addresses both the influences of cultural patterns on childbirth behavior and the effectiveness of deep relaxation on the labor process appears to improve both quantitative and qualitative childbirth outcome measures.
24319749|Terrestrial movements of Procambarus alleni leaving and entering a seasonal forest pond in NW Hillsborough Co., Florida were monitored daily for 14 mo. Terrestrial activity occurred almost exclusively during the rainy season from June to October, with large numbers of individuals moving overland during or shortly after periods of heavy rainfall. Migration to and from nearby swamps, river, and terrestrial burrows may explain the overland movements.
24319908|A range extension is reported (from the Panhandle to southern Florida) for the purple moonflower (Ipomoea turbinata). The species, originally perhaps from Mexico, has been established elsewhere in the southeastern U.S.A. for some years.
24320289|Biweekly rainfall was measured from an 87-station rainfall monitoring network located in Shark River Slough for 22 mo beginning in December 1977. Mean cumulative rainfall (201.7 cm) was 24% less than that calculated from 3 NOAA stations monitored daily at the periphery of the slough. Areal variability of precipitation within the slough ranges from 150 cm in the northeast area to more than 230 cm in southern area. Information gained on rainfall was used to design an efficient and accurate long-term rainfall network for this 1000 km2 area.
24319861|Planting of tree seedlings on reclaimed strip mined lands in Florida is subject to low survival rate and high expense. Oak or pine tree seeds, coated with growing medium containing nutrients, were successfully grown in open sun, provided the coated seeds were mulched. The growing medium or coating was also given a final coat of either Plaster of Paris or foamable polyurethane polymer in order to prevent its disintegration by the elements. This study is concerned with comparision of polymer coatings (including foamable hydrophilic polyurethane) with other coatings.
24320529|Of the 469 Florida sites with potential contamination identified as of May 1988, 39 are National Priorities List (NPL) sites and 23 are State Action sitesmaking them eligible for either the federal Superfund program or the state funded cleanup program. Thirteen of the Superfund sites are under state lead and 26 are managed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Forty one percent of Superfund sites are in the design or construction steps. Interim Remedial Measures (IRM) have been completed or are underway at 25 Superfund sites. Three of the Superfund sites have been proposed for deletion from the NPLthe cleanup completed or long term treatment installed and operating. Fifty two percent of the State Action Sites are in design or construction. IRM's have been completed or are underway at 7 State Action Sites. Remedial actions have been completed at 5 State Action Sites. Progress from site discovery to cleanup for all Florida sites is discussed along with the technical and institutional issues that affect the time it takes to complete the various stages of a cleanup.
24321997|Several important questions regarding the evolutionary history of sturgeon remain unanswered, including the relationship between chromosome number and ploidy level. The Gulf of Mexico sturgeon (Acipenser oxyrinchus desotoi), currently listed as "threatened" under the U. S. Endangered Species Act, is an anadromous fish found along the United States Gulf Coast and its associated rivers. It and its sibling subspecies, the Atlantic sturgeon, are considered one of the 120-chromosome ancestral members of the Acipenseridae. We describe preliminary data that support the argument that Gulf sturgeon have undergone incomplete re-diploidization since the ancestral. Early Jurassic, genome duplication event. We present 10 unpublished Gulf sturgeon-derived microsatellite loci that show evidence of tetrasomic inheritance (out of 33 total tested loci). Support for this argument includes clear stepwise patterns among alleles at all loci, a lack of consistent allele peaks that could be non-specific amplifications, and sequences from three alleles representing a single locus in one individual that are clearly homologous. The pattern of limited tetrasomic inheritance contradicts the established assumption that 120-chromosome sturgeons are effectively diploid and suggests that the process of re-diploidization in Gulf sturgeon is incomplete.
24319598|The biomass of man now far exceeds that of any other large-sized species of animal that has ever lived on earth.
24319465|Samples taken June-August, 1970, yielded 72 Cyanophyta, 46 Chlorophyta, 3 Euglenophyta, 44 Chrysophyta, and 2 Pyrrophyta.
24320454|This study identifies rainfall anomalies, timed with major El Nino events, in seven climatic divisions of Florida. The study also determines the statistical significance of these rainfall anomalies. The seasonal and annual climatology of rainfall is presented for seven climatic divisions of the State for the period 1895 to 1989. Periodogram analysis indicates 5- to 6-year variability in rainfall throughout most of Florida, in particular during winter and spring. Super-posed epoch analysis, utilizing only rainfall during the year prior to and concurrent with a major El Nino, shows that State-wide rainfall anomalies are timed with these Pacific events. The most significant anomalies are: (1) below normal rainfall over all of the State during winter and spring the year prior to an El Nino; and (2) above normal rainfall over all of the State during winter and spring the second year of an El Nino. Largest rainfall anomalies have occurred in the southern climatic divisions of Florida. During winters of the second year of El Nino, south Florida rainfall anomalies range from + 76 to + 94mm ( + 3.0 to + 3.7inches) depending on the climatic division. These anomalies are 45 to 66 percent above normal winter rainfall, and are significant at the 0.999 level.
24320348|Meteorological and hydrographie data were recorded over a 29-da period in the summer of 1981 to describe wind effects on long-period net displacement of water along the navigational channel of the southern Indian River lagoon, Florida. Tidal motions decreased with increasing distance from the ocean inlets at either end of the study area, enhancing wind effects. Tidal current speeds in the middle of the study area were 50% of those at the Fort Pierce Inlet, while the nontidal current variance increased by 27% over the same distance, and by 64% over that at the St. Lucie Inlet. A net displacement of water toward the north throughout the study area was coherent with windstress over time scales in excess of 2 da.
24320029|Observed X-ray powder diffraction data were interpreted with the aid of a calculated pattern based upon the known crystal structure. The results consist of a high quality standard powder pattern with the usual supporting data for an important compound which is not presently included in the X-ray Powder Diffraction File.
24321137|The Indian River Lagoon, Florida has been touted as the most diverse estuary in North America, yet the biodiversity of most biota is virtually unknown. Diatoms are abundant microalgae in this estuary, in planktonic, benthic, and epiphytic habitats. This account utilizes published records supplemented with personal observations to provide the first comprehensive summary of the diatom flora in this unusual estuary system. Apart from novel and cryptic species, 436 taxa are recorded, in 129 genera. The most diverse benthic genera were Mastogloia (36 taxa) and Nitzschia (24 taxa). Among planktonic genera were 38 taxa in Chaetoceros and 19 taxa in Thalassiosira. Sixty-two genera were represented by one species.
24321564|We determined soil preferences of nineteen federally-listed species by overlaying GPS points on soil polygons in nine major protected areas on the Lake Wales Ridge in Highlands County, Florida. We collected 1173 GPS points representing 2577 occurrences of 18 species of vascular plants and one terrestrial lichen. Among species, there is continuous variation in degree and type of specialization for soil groups. Six species were specialized for xeric yellow sands, two species were specialists for xeric white sands, and one species specialized in xeric scrubby flatwoods. Ten species were soil generalists. Xeric white sands (especially St. Lucie) supported the greatest number of occurrences of these listed species, but xeric yellow sands and Satellite soils (supporting xeric scrubby flatwoods) were also important. Other scrubby flatwoods soils, flatwoods soils and depressional soils were not important for these plants. Soil specialists (as compared to soil generalists) were less likely to be post-fire resprouters and had fewer occurrences, but higher population sizes, among the Highlands County locations surveyed. Many locations of suitable soils are unoccupied by these species, most likely because of fire suppression and dispersal limitations. As fire management progresses in protected areas, these parcels should be re-surveyed for the presence of listed species.
24319491|Marco Island estuary has undergone intensive study during a 4-yr period from July 1971 through July 1975. A general summary of the area's physical, chemical and biological makeup is presented here with emphasis on water chemistry and analyses of macroinvertebrate and fish communities. The estuary may be characterized as seasonally hypersaline with low concentrations of dissolved nutrients. Diversity of animal communities is high with elements of both the West Indian and Carolinian Provinces present. Maximum diversity for epibenthic invertebrates and fishes was associated with seagrass meadows and for the benthic infauna with predominantly coarser substrates (100-500 m). In addition, several species of invertebrates and fishes exhibited distinct seasonality, becoming scarce during the cooler months. A comparison is also made between artificial waterways and natural mangrove tidal creeks and open bays. The results demonstrate that for the infaunal community considerable differences occur between the two areas. Less pronounced differences, however, are apparent in the canal fish community which most closely resembles that of the unvegetated open bay area.
24320962|The hammock region of Hernando County is part of a larger hammock belt, termed "Big Hammock" by Harper (1911, 1921), which occupies parts of Citrus, Hernando, and Pasco Counties in central Florida. The Hernando Hammock sub-region contains the most significant natural features of Big Hammock, in particular, its two principal geographic entitiesthe Annuteliga Hammock and the Chocochatti Hammock. Hernando Hammock is extremely diverse in terms of its topography, soils, plant communities, and animal populations; there-fore, it is characterized by unusually high quality wildlife habitat and exceptional species richness. Large parts of the Hammock have been altered as a result of agriculture, industry, transportation, and, more recently, by suburban development. Efforts are being made to preserve at least a small part of the area in its current condition.
24319530|The region of the West Florida Shelf known as the Florida Middle Ground is situated along the boundaries of three water masses, the Gulf Loop Current, the West Florida Estuarine Gyre, and the Florida Bay Waters. During the summer circulation patterns are principally derived from the Loop Current, tidal forces, and water column stratification. Winter circulation is primarily dependent upon wind and tide as the generating forces. The oceanographic conditions of the region result in high water column zooplankton standing crops. These populations are comparable to those reported from regions of upwelling.
24321900|Concerns over water estuarine water quality degradation have prompted Florida environmental agencies to examine potential ecological responses of the Caloosahatchee River and St. Lucie Estuaries (CRE and SLE) to excess nutrient inputs. Understanding estuarine responses to external nutrient loading requires knowledge of internal biogeochemical cycling. This study examined the sediment-water interface in January-February 2008 to quantify internal recycling of dissolved oxygen (O2), inorganic nitrogen (DIN), and inorganic phosphorus (DIP). Approximately 50 intact sediment-water cores were collected from each estuary and incubated under both light and dark conditions. Hourly changes in water column concentrations were measured to calculate sediment-water exchange rates and combined with a suite of sediment, porewater, and water column variables. Salinity, submarine light penetration, sediment chlorophyll, O2 efflux, and sediment DIN uptake were positively correlated in the CRE but not in the SLE. Sediments accounted for 6785% and 50%, of total ecosystem respiration in the CRE and SLE, respectively. Assuming Redfield stoichiometry, this level of benthic respiration could supply 1239% (CRE) and 6.529% (SLE) of the nitrogen required for primary production. Total internal production of DIN was 15.0 and 5.8 times greater than surface water loading to the CRE and SLE, respectively, with benthic DIN flux replacing water column DIN at double the rate of surface inflow during the particularly dry period in early 2008. The sediment-water interface is where light penetration and sediment biogeochemistry interact to influence primary production, material processing, and net metabolism at the estuary scale.
24321671|Horseshoe crabs, Limulus polyphemus, typically inhabit estuaries with pronounced tides that influence the timing of reproduction. However, many of the cues known to mediate spawning and larval hatching are absent in the Indian River Lagoon (IRL) since much of the area is microtidal. This review summarizes our recent studies of the reproductive ecology of L. polyphemus in the IRL that focused on the potential impact of microtidal conditions on the timing and frequency of mating, spawning, and larval hatching and abundance. Extensive surveys conducted throughout the northern region of the IRL indicated that spawning occurs year-round but is aperiodic. Throughout the sampling period, larval abundances were low, despite the fact that environmental conditions were suitable for their survival and development. Peaks in larval abundance were independent of spawning events but were linked to changes in water level. Laboratory experiments indicated that conditions associated with periods of high water, including inundation and mechanical agitation, may facilitate hatching, resulting in short-term peaks in larval abundance. In general, the reproductive ecology of L. polyphemus in the IRL differs markedly from populations in tidal areas. However, results indicate that spawning and larval hatching are cued by environmental conditions that are similar to those associated with tidal changes.
24320223|Eggs of Echinaster sp. (Type II) were fertilizd at field temperature and salinity levels of 25C and 32. Embryos were transferred to 20, 25, 30C and 25, 32, 39 S 2 da after fertilization. At 39, at all temperatures, approximately 45% of all metamorphosed individuals exhibited ray number abnormalities, with 4-ray individuals predominating over 3-ray individuals by a ratio of 2:1. Metamorphosed individuals at 25 and 32 S had the normal 5 rays. These data indicate that salinity can influence ray formation during early development.
24320148|In several mangrove and shoreline plant communities in the Tampa Bay area bryophytes were found in all of the sites examined. Thirty taxa of both mosses and liverworts were collected from a variety of soil and corticolous substrates including Avicennia germinans (L.) L., Conocarpus erecta L. and Laguncularia racemosa (L.) Gaertn. f. The occurrence of bryophytes in coastal plant communities which are influenced by maritime environmental conditions is briefly reviewed.
24321991|Sabal palmetto (cabbage palm) is a native palm species used commonly in urban landscaping throughout Florida. In addition to its aesthetic appeal and high tolerance to the variable environmental conditions found in Florida, the use of cabbage palms in landscaping should be expected to promote urban wildlife because the tree provides food and nesting sites for various organisms, including arthropods. In this study, we compared arthropod number, abundance, and biodiversity in cabbage palms between natural and landscaped environments. Trees in natural environments supported more individuals and greater species richness than trees in landscaped environments. Environmental factors, such as human activity and depauperate botanical communities, might explain why landscaped cabbage palms supported fewer arthropods. This suggests that landscaping with isolated native trees, such as the cabbage palms in this study, in an otherwise lawn-manicured environment might have adverse effects on biodiversity as predicted by island biogeography. Natural and landscaped palms supported a similar diversity of transient arthropods, which were primarily involved either directly or indirectly with pollination. Transient arthropods were found flying around cabbage palms, which might explain the ability of the arthropods to use landscaped trees. Increased use of native species such as S. palmetto in urban landscapes should have a positive effect on urban wildlife that can disperse broadly, such as flying arthropods and birds.
24321799|Lake Thonotosassa is a hypereutrophic lake in west central Florida and the largest natural freshwater lake in Hillsborough County. The Environmental Protection Agency established Total Maximum Daily Loads (TMDLs) for lead in Lake Thonotosassa in 2005. The lake was determined to be impaired for lead based on three exceedences of the EPA's chronic water quality criterion of 2.70 ppb during 2002. The EPA report suggested that a possible source for the lead was from resuspension of contaminated bottom sediments during storm events. The Environmental Protection Commission of Hillsborough County (EPCHC) conducted a study in May 2008 to test for sediment contamination from lead and other metals and to map the distribution of metals in the lake. Results from this study found that most metals, including lead, had sediment concentrations below the Florida state sediment quality guidelines. Highest concentrations for most metals were found associated with high silt/clay sediments in the deeper sites on the west end of the lake. Arsenic, tin, and antimony, however, had highest concentrations at shallow sites. This was attributed to the higher solubility of these elements under the reducing conditions found in the deeper portions of the lake and their subsequent precipitation in the more oxygen rich shallow areas. Overall, there was little evidence that sediment contamination for metals was an issue within Lake Thonotosassa.
24321467|A keystone species and ecosystem engineer, the eastern oyster Crassostrea virginica plays a vital role in estuarine environments. Recently, concern for this resource has arisen in Mosquito Lagoon, Florida. Intense boating activity has caused atypical dead margins (mounds of disarticulated shells) to emerge on oyster reefs located adjacent to major boating channels. Once dead margins are formed, little is known about their influence on reef communities. This study focused on the impact of dead margins on: (1) oyster reef architecture, (2) species diversity, and (3) predation on oyster spat. Structural differences were compared between oyster reefs with no dead margins (reference reefs) and those with dead margins. To determine if dead margins influenced the diversity of mobile species inhabiting oyster reefs, lift nets were deployed across both reef types. Lastly, structural variables (i.e. shell orientation, single versus shell clusters, reef slope) were manipulated in field experiments and effects on oyster predation were observed. Dead margins significantly reduced habitat complexity and species diversity on oyster reefs. Reference reefs had four-fold more live oysters, twice as many shell clusters, and significantly higher community metrics (i.e. species richness, density, biomass). Structural variables did not alter predation efficiency of any of the tested predators.
24322458|Minute black scavenger flies (Diptera: Scatopsidae) were collected in traps baited with octenol and a proprietary "human scent bait" on Key Largo, Long Key, and Vaca Key, Monroe County, Florida. Two species were identified: Holoplagia guamensis (Johannsen), new to the United States and Florida, and Neorhegmoclemina bisaccatum Cook, previously known from Iowa, New York, and northern Florida.
24321666|This study investigates the Holocene evolution of two distinctly different geomorphic regions of the barrier island system in east-central Florida. The northern region is comprised of high relief, shore-parallel beach ridges with a rhythmic lagoon shoreline. Subdued local relief in the southern region reflects the presence of a single primary dune and relict recurved sand spits with an irregular lagoon shoreline. A coarsening-upward sediment sequence observed in the Indian River Lagoon (IRL), is indicative of Holocene marine transgression. The barrier island in the northern region consists of a regressive sandy shoreline sequence reflecting the presence of progradational beach ridge sets. A transgressive sediment succession beneath the barrier island in the southern region is associated with the presence of recurved sand spits, relict tidal-inlet channelfill and flood delta sediment. These observations suggest temporal and spatial variation in sediment supply is responsible for the small-scale differential evolution of this barrier island segment. Radiocarbon dates indicate the IRL basin was initially flooded approximately 7,000 yr B.P. Late-Pleistocene bedrock elevations are relatively shallow beneath the barrier island in both regions. This antecedent topography stalled the landward retreat of the barrier island coincident with Strandline flooding.
24320756|The jaguar guapote (Cichlasorna managuense,) was added to Florida's list of established exotic fishes in 1995. Jaguar guapotes were collected for 12 consecutive months from the Little River Canal (C-7), Florida. Fish and insects were the primary food. Males grow larger than females (only three of 59 guapotes 301 mm TL were females). During 199495, jaguar guapotes spawned primarily between March and November with a peak in July. Fecundity estimates for ripe female jaguar guapotes averaged 4,053 (n = 17; 29 eggs/g whole fish weight).
24320479|Two species of Calystegia are known from Florida. Calystegia catesbeiana is a rare southeastern U.S. endemic, being known in the state from a single locality. Calystegia sepium ssp. limnophila is widespread in the state, extending from the southern tip of the peninsula into the western part of the Panhandle.
24322137|Life history characters of the spotted seatrout (Cynoscion nebulosus) have tremendous potential to discern trends in environmental conditions within and among estuaries. The species is widely distributed (i.e., from North Carolina to Mexico), is both commercially and recreationally important, and rarely leaves its home estuary. Thus, the estuarine conditions to which a population was subjected while growing could affect changes in its life history features such as growth. About 400 spotted seatrout were collected from April through July 2003 from the San Carlos Bay area of the southern portion of Charlotte Harbor in southwest Florida. Otolith sections were examined with enhanced imagery to facilitate recording age and annulus increments from the otolith. There was a significant relationship between otolith radius and fork length that differed between sexes. A comparison of back-calculated size at Age 1 for four year classes (19992002) indicated that there were significant differences in growth between year classes. Initial time-series analysis indicated the potential effects of seagrass density and salinity on fish growth. Salinity conditions are artificially manipulated in this estuary and this action may be responsible for the differences in growth rates observed for both males and females among year classes.
24320439|During winter and spring of 1986 a preliminary study to assess effects of large concentrations of manatees feeding on a Syringodium filiforme dominated seagrass flat in the north Banana River was conducted as part of the long term environmental monitoring program at the Kennedy Space Center, Florida. Aerial surveys were used to collect manatee distribution and abundance information. Data on the distribution, percent cover and biomass of seagrasses were collected from 50 randomly selected locations. Six exclosure cages paired with open plots (2.25 m2) were used to assess grazing affects. Percent cover of Syringodium filiforme at sites open to feeding was greatly reduced (90%) by manatees cropping the blades and mean shoot biomass was significantly (p = 0.03) reduced. Manatee distribution data showed a positive correlation with Syringodium filiforme (r = 0.65) and Halodule wrightii (r = 0.50), and a negative correlation with the macroalgae, Caulerpa prolifera (r = 0.74).
24321454|Amphibian populations worldwide have been declining for decades, largely due to habitat destruction, water pollution, and introduced species. Wetland impacts are often the cause of local amphibian declines. We studied the effect of alterations in wetland hydrology on frog and toad populations at Morris Bridge Wellfield (MBWF) in Hillsborough County, Florida. Frogs and toads in wetlands in zones of different surficial aquifer drawdown levels were studied to determine if hydrological differences resulting from groundwater pumping affected their populations. Nighttime call surveys and tadpole sampling were conducted at 16 wetlands in three drawdown zones from June through August 2004. While there was no significant relationship between the number of tadpole species and drawdown zone, the zone unaffected by groundwater pumping had significantly higher tadpole densities than the other zones. No correlation was found between the number of species calling in each wetland and the number of tadpole species captured. Cuban treefrogs (Osteopilus septentrionalis), an introduced species that competes with and consumes native frogs, comprised 48% of tadpoles captured and were found at 50% of the wetlands studied. This marks the beginning of a long-term study of the interaction between the impacts of hydrological alterations and introduced species on native frogs and toads at MBWF.
24319947|The role of age factors (e.g. where persons over 65 live in Florida) is considered in comparing the heart and colorectal cancer death rates in 67 counties in Florida. The degree of association with age (percentage of those 65 and older) and heart death rate was r2 = 0.77 (p < 0.001); for age and colorectal cancer rate, the value was r2 = 0.63 (p < 0.001). The results are compared with land factors and the influence of age is shown to be a dominant factor, even with age-adjusted data for the heart death rates. The association of percentage of persons over age 65 years is less evident with colorectal cancer death rates, even though the latter are not age-adjusted. The importance of age factors may be the result of the unique population in Florida; that is, a rapidly growing state that has traditionally attracted a post-65-year population. As a consequence, age-adjusted factors that are based on an idealized 1940s population used for age-adjustment reflect an inadequacy of the population base for the present population.
24321377|Early work on marine and mangrove fungi was conducted at Biscayne Bay, Florida, including taxonomic, physiological and ecological studies. In this study, some 250 samples of mangrove wood were collected in and around Fort Pierce and the Florida Keys from the mangrove tree species Avicennia germinans, Conocarpus erectus and Rhizophora mangle. In addition, Thalassia testudinum, Salicornia virginica, and sand were collected for investigation of other species of marine fungi. Fifty-three marine and mangrove fungi were identified bringing the total species reported for Florida to 90. The fungi collected are compared with those reported from the Bahamas and the Atlantic Ocean.
24320442|Nearest neighbor tests of spatial dispersion using Monte Carlo procedures did not reveal pattern in a fabricated data set until applied separately to population subsets (i.e., males and females). An index of association was needed for map data from field experiments, so the statistic Kappa was evaluated and found inadequate for our purposes. Alternative statistics unfortunately are not available.
24320438|During December, 1989 low temperatures resulted in the thermal mortality of large numbers of Tilapia melanotheron in manmade aquatic habitats on central Merritt Island, Florida. Estimates of the number of fishes killed at four locations ranged from 23 to 2662. All locations were characterized by shallow water (<1.5 m), low salinities (7), and narrow connections (culverts or canals) to the Indian River lagoon system.
24320581|Kraft black liquor (KBL), a by-product of the paper pulp industry, was neutralized, treated and diluted to produce a material (10% neutralized KBL) that has the potential to retard the growth of Hydrilla verticillata (Royle) by shading. Phase one of the research is concerned with the mechanism of action: light reduction versus chemical toxicity. A Warburg bioassay indicated that addition of the dark liquid (10% neutralized KBL) inhibited oxygen production within an hour. A non-contact bioassay indicated the dark liquid significantly affected the light that hydrilla could receive; both the percent fresh weight change of hydrilla and light intensity were directly related to the log of the black liquor concentration (dilution with 10% Hoaglands). Change in fresh weight of hydrilla in 10% Hoaglands and diluted black liquor mixture was measured every 3-4 days. Pseudo-first-order rate constants for fresh weight change were calculated and found to be inversely related to the black liquor concentration, another indication of shading as a major, but not exclusive, mechanism of action.
24319568|Because of the unusual humidity of the Florida environment a special closed system has been developed for handling the sensitive photographic plates used in astronomical photography. In this system the plates are protected by a dry nitrogen atmosphere at all critical stages, including exposure at the telescope. The system confers substantial advantages over unprotected plates in stability, consistency, and sensitivity.
24321389|Agricultural impoundments represent potentially important habitat, but little information is available on the use of these areas by wildlife or how that use varies seasonally. We conducted weekly surveys during a 5-year period to document seasonal, annual, and habitat influences on the avian community of a 10.5-ha agricultural impoundment in southwest Florida. The impoundment included a mix of wetland and upland cover types typical of impoundments in the region. We recorded approximately 1/3 of the 229 potential native resident and migratory avifauna known to occur in the region, including 5 species of state or federally listed wading birds. Of the 85 species documented, 65% nested in southwest Florida, many of which were augmented by winter migrants. The avian assemblage was relatively evenly distributed and 5 of the 7 defined guilds were represented among the 8 most abundant species. Wetland cover types attracted the most species and birds, many of the most abundant of which were species known to use wetlands with relatively dense vegetation. Seasonal effects associated with changing wetland conditions and migratory species were principal factors influencing changes in the bird community. Numbers of species and birds were inversely related to the rainy summer months and positively associated with improved foraging conditions created by seasonal changes in water level. Annual effects were less important but species and numbers of birds declined during the year of lowest annual rainfall. Southwest Florida has thousands of hectares devoted to agricultural impoundments, the collective contribution of which may be extremely important for conservation of regional and migratory bird populations, yet almost nothing is known about the value of these habitats in working landscapes or how best to manage them for wildlife.
24321391|Using a series of drift fences, we examined the movements of four amphibians at a breeding site in the Florida panhandle during three consecutive breeding seasons. More Ambystoma cingulatum immigrated from pine savanna than from pine plantation. Eurycea quadridigitata immigrated equally from pine savanna and pine plantation one year, but exhibited bias towards pine savanna or pine plantation in other years. Pseudacris nigrita immigrants were randomly distributed around the breeding site in one year, but biased towards pine savanna in another. Pseudacris ornata immigrated without directional bias both years they immigrated. Biased immigration orientation presumably reflects preference for particular upland attributes, whereas lack of directional bias suggests surrounding uplands provide equally suitable habitat. Among-year differences in immigration orientation indicate that single-season studies could yield erroneous results. Ambystoma cingulatum was captured up to 100 m from the breeding site, and both Pseudacris species were captured up to 200 m from the breeding site (the maximum distance of our upland drift fences). Eurycea quadridigitata was captured up to 180 m from another nearby breeding site. Our observations suggest that land management considerations for these species should extend a minimum of 200 m from known breeding sites.
24321913|In order to identify plant species and communities that may be impacted by increasing urbanization in the coastal Apalachicola region of the panhandle of Florida, our study integrates plot level species data collection with GIS remote sensing. Two hundred and eighty-nine plant species were identified during field survey including fourteen Florida listed rare species. Hierarchical classification of plant species cover data yielded the identification of five upland habitats: bayhead, flatwoods, sand pine scrub, sandhill, and scrubby flatwoods. Classification trees were used to classify Landsat Thematic Mapper images and identify and map pine dominated habitats in the study area. Using the predicted rate of land use change from natural habitat to urban for the state of Florida, we estimate the loss of 437 ha of globally imperiled sand pine scrub and 621 ha of Florida imperiled sandhill habitats in the study area in the next 50 years. This land is predominately located nearest the Gulf of Mexico and knowledge of the potential impacts of urbanization on the marine and estuarine communities in this area is needed. This data is necessary in order to inform urban planning and help find a balance between economic growth and ecological stability for this and other seaside communities.
24319874|On the basis of 7 characteristics, C. pulchella darlingtoni is found to be a subspecies distinct from C. p. pulchella.
24321894|Increased anthropogenic loading of mercury (Hg) has caused elevated levels in biota. Tissue samples were collected from Apalachicola in 1995 and Chassahowitzka in 1997 and analyzed by Florida Department of Environmental Protection for total mercury. Hair collected from four individuals within the Chassahowitizka subpopulation had a mean mercury concentration of 0.673  0.281 g/g and a body-weight weighted mean concentration of 0.712 g/g. Whole blood collected from 21 Apalachicola bears had a mean mercury concentrations of 0.050  0.003 g/g with a body-weight weighted mean concentration of 0.052 g/g. To our knowledge this is the first report of Florida black bear blood and hair Hg concentrations. A baseline for Hg levels in Florida bears is important to assess potential risk of mercury exposure to other populations of black bears throughout its range.
24321932|Beachrock formations in Dry Tortugas National Park, USA, function as important nursery habitats for many reef fishes. During low tide, the northeast Loggerhead Key nursery is reduced to a series of small rockpools exposing fish to rapid and sometimes extreme temperature changes. We estimated the critical thermal maximum (CTmax) of juvenile frillfin goby, Bathygobius soporator, sergeant major, Abudefduf saxatilis, cocoa damselfish, Stegastes variabilis, and sailors choice, Haemulon parra, collected from nursery pools. Frillfin goby exhibited the highest CTmax (40.1  0.20C) followed by sergeant major (39.0  0.11C), cocoa damselfish (38.3  0.09C), and sailors choice (36.8  0.42C). All CTmax measures were statistically distinct and when compared to likely rockpool temperatures, suggest that juvenile fishes may depend on both physiological and behavioral adaptations to cope with rapidly fluctuating nursery temperatures.
24319573|Supernatant fractions obtained by mild acid hydrolysis of yeast phase Histoplasma capsulatum cell walls were active in eliciting delayed hypersensitivity skin reactions in H. capsulatum sensitized guinea pigs. Two peaks of activity occurred. The first or early activity was recoverable from the supernates almost immediately and persisted for 7 hr. The second or later activity became apparent at 15 hr and persisted through 48 hr of hydrolysis. The majority of the early activity was found to be released in the first 2 hr, while the later activity was released continuously between 15 and 48 hr. At least a portion of the material exhibiting the early activity was acid-stable. Skin-reactive materials were shown to be different from those involved in passive hemagglutination and fluorescence of the cell wall, as well as from those involved in precipitin reactions.
24320614|X-ray photoelectron binding energies of inner shell electrons of platinum and ligand nitrogen atoms were obtained in the series of platinum(II) diethylenetriamine (dien) complexes, [Pt(dien)X]Y, where X = CN-, $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{O}}_{2}^{-}$, I-, Cl-, and $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$ and where selected counter ions, Y = I-, Cl-, or $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$. The ordering deduced for the coordinated anions X- in [Pt(dien)X]Y complexes was compared with the ordering for the same ligands in the spectrochemical series, the nephelauxetic series and the trans-effect of coordination complexes. It was found that the XPS Pt(4f5/2) and Pt(4f7/2) values for these anions correlated quite well with the ordering of the spectrochemical series, while the XPS Pt(4d5/2) values correlated very well with the ordering in the nephelauxetic series. The XPS(dien)N(1s) values fit also quite well with the ordering of the trans-effect; however, no evidence was seen with the ordering of the secondary trans-effect.
24319859|The tolerance of Schinus terebinthifolius to saline conditions was investigated in order to determine its ability to invade and establish in coastal communities of the Everglades National Park. Viability of seed soaked in salt solutions for 72 hours declined as salinity increased, although 60 % of the seeds were viable after soaking in 40 ppt salt solution. Germination rates in petri dishes declined more sharply with salinity increases, with only 12 % germination at 20 ppt salt solution. On native soils treated with salt solutions, germination never occurred at salinities higher than 5 ppt. Survival of seedlings transplanted into field sites occurred only where soil salinities were 5 ppt or less. The findings suggest that Schinus is a potential threat to halophytic plant communities only where freshwater has replaced the higher salinity waters that initially fostered the salt tolerant plants.
44113159|Seagrass habitats support marine food webs and provide essential habitat for a variety of species. Seagrasses and associated algae at three locations along the Intracoastal Waterway in Broward County, FL were assessed for their trophic contribution to the marine organisms in the area. Two seagrass species, along with associated algae, invertebrates, and vertebrates, were analyzed for stable carbon and nitrogen isotope ratios to determine trophic relationships. Significant differences were found in C and  between both seagrass species and among the three sites. The C of Johnson's seagrass Halophila johnsonii ranged from 16.28 to 11.27 while shoal grass Halodule wrightii ranged from 15.78 to 13.36. The N for shoal grass ranged from 4.69 to 7.08 versus 0.80 to 7.86 for Johnson's seagrass. Neither seagrass species was a dominant food source and epiphytes appeared to be the greater trophic contributor. However, the C (16.28 to  11.27) and N (0.80 to 7.86) of both seagrass species did fall in the fractionation range of potential consumers suggesting that seagrass material could be ingested incidentally while grazing on epiphytes and other primary producers. Our results indicate that seagrass in Broward County are valuable both as a direct food source and as substrate for epiphytes.
24319968|Twelve satellite-tracked drifting buoys were released, one each month between April 1984 and March 1985, at the 75 m isobath, 70 km southeast of Cape Canaveral, FL. Starting in May 1984, 500 drift cards were also released at each buoy deployment from the same site (28.0N, 80.0W). In addition, satellite-tracked buoys from May 1979, September 1983, and February 1985, which drifted into or through the area, were studied for information about surface currents and particle trajectories. All 12 buoys from the 28N/80W launch site drifted north past Cape Canaveral (28.5N); only the May 1984 buoy drifted into the coastal zone off Mayport, FL (30.4N), although several others showed a tendency to do so in that area. Every buoy deployed within 5 km of the western edge of the Gulf Stream was entrained into the current, and some as far as 25 km were also entrained. The September 1983 bouy, which was deployed slightly west of 28N/80W, and the February 1985 buoy, which was deployed in the Gulf of Mexico, both came ashore near St. Lucie Inlet, FL (27.2N), 140 km south of Cape Canaveral. Drift cards from May, September, October, and November 1984, and February 1985 were recovered west and north of 28N/80W. Forty percent of the cards recovered were from south of Cape Canaveral; Cocoa Beach, FL (28.3N), and Pontevedra Beach, FL (30.2N), reported most of the returns. For those months when drift cards were returned, buoy trajectories showed little correlation with drift card vectors. Drift cards established the possibility of materials coming ashore along the Florida Atlantic coast, both north and south of Cape Canaveral, particularly in the autumn.
24321908|This paper is the result of ongoing research conducted at the University of North Florida, School of Engineering regarding carbon sequestration activities in Florida, USA. The issue of global climate change has led great interest to bear on reducing carbon emissions through new technologies such as geologic carbon sequestration. Engineers, scientists, and governing bodies across the globe have studied the costs associated with transporting carbon dioxide from point sources to repository sites but few have completed analysis for Florida. In 2007, Florida power plants accounted for over 143 million tonnes of CO2 emitted into the atmosphere. This report continues recently published cost analyses and transport optimization techniques for transporting carbon dioxide from power plants in Florida to proposed carbon repositories throughout the state. New transportation scenarios are introduced along with revised costs and transport optimization results.
24320948|Sodium fluorosilicate, a by-product of the production of phosphoric acid, is a nuisance material because of the tendency to build up in pipes and the need to remove the material from pipes. Samples of scale from the industry were analyzed and were tested in the presence and absence of magnetic fields (1200 and 2000 gauss). Enhanced solubility was noted in the presence of a magnetic field. The effect is ascribed to an increase in entropy as a result of the field, and the entropy increase results in an increase in the solubility of the scale. At room temperature, the solubility of fluorosilicate scale was 1.70g/100g, and at 50 C in the presence of a magnetic field it was increased by about 2528%.
24320331|Reproductive biology of 3 species of sea anemones was studied over an 8 mo period in the intertidal zone along the central Atlantic coast of Florida. Actinia bermudensis on the north jetty at Fort Pierce Inlet spawned at the end of September 1977; planulae were brooded throughout the yr. The sex distribution of 82 animals examined was 41 females, 5 males and 36 without gonads. Aiptasia pallida from Sebastian Inlet spawned in September 1977 and possibly in March 1978; the skewed sex distribution of 134 animals examined was 34 females, 2 males and 98 without gonads. Bunodosoma cavernata from the south jetty at Jupiter Inlet spawned in October 1977; planulae were brooded throughout the yr. The sex ratio of 75 animals examined was closer to one-to-one (19 females, 29 males, 26 lacked gonads, and 1 hermaphrodite).
24319806|Field and herbarium studies of the morning glory (Ipomoea) were made for Florida. Keys and illustrations are given for the state's 26 species.
24319546|Following a fall tomato crop, 9 vegetable crops were grown with or without additional fertilizer. The fall tomato crops received 283 kg/ha N, 112 kg/ha P2O5, 393 kg/ha K2O, and minor elements. The vegetable crops were fertilized at a rate of 220 kg/ha N, 112 kg/ha P2O5, and 112 kg/ha K2O, or were grown on residual nutrients alone. Additional fertilizer restricted or prevented to a greater degree the germination of carrot, green onion, lettuce and radish seeds, whereas residual fertilizer did not. The survival and growth of broccoli, cabbage, cauliflower, and kohlrabi transplants were also affected by additional or residual fertilizers. Zucchini squash was not significantly affected by excess salts.
24321836|Florida apple snails, Pomacea paludosa, are the nearly exclusive prey of the endangered snail kite, Rostrhamus sociabilis plumbeus. Declines in snail numbers have been documented in wetlands critical to snail kite populations and are especially concerning given the raptor's dependence on them. Stock enhancement of hatchery-reared snails into wild populations has been proposed, but a method for distinguishing wild from hatchery snails should be developed to gauge stocking success. We measured carbon and oxygen stable isotope values of Florida apple snail shells to evaluate their potential as natural tags to distinguish wild from hatchery-reared snails. Shells were obtained from hatchery snails (n = 24) reared in south Florida and two groups of wild snails (n=12, n=15) collected from Lake Kissimmee, Florida four months apart. Shells were analyzed for 13C and 18O values with stable isotope ratio-mass spectrometry (SIR-MS). Both isotope ratios were significantly different among the three groups (ANOVA; p<0.001), thus suggesting shell stable isotope ratios may serve as an effective natural tag to distinguish hatchery from wild apple snails. However, significant differences in 13C and 18O values also existed between wild groups, suggesting disparities in food sources and ambient water temperatures existed between wild groups.
24321432|Permits are one method to manage state listed species located on lands proposed for development in Florida. The data recorded on an application and issued permit document impacts to a species and, if applicable, mitigation for the impacts. As the number of permits issued accumulates over time the impact and mitigation data can be analyzed to help determine population trends, determine the amount of habitat lost or gained, evaluate the management strategy, and review progress toward permit goals. The purpose of this study was to quantify permit data collected from 1990 through 2005 for two state listed species in Florida: gopher tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus) and Florida burrowing owls (Athene cunicularia floridana). The permits examined included Special Tortoise Relocation Permit, Standard Tortoise Relocation Permit, Incidental Take Permit, and Migratory Bird Nest Removal Permit. For three of the four permits examined we were unable to either verify or quantify impacts due to permitting because of missing or inconsistent data. We suggest that management plans for state listed species include protocols defining and documenting standards for the quality control of permit data collection, entry, and management.
24319648|Additional records of the xanthid crab Allactaea lithostrota Williams, 1974 obtained at 4 localities in the West Indies Province extended its geographic range from North Carolina to the coast of Venezuela.
24320091|Identification of genera included in Crum and Steere Mosses of Porto Rico is simplified by provision of a generic key not included in the original work. The key is artificial and based upon vegetative characters.
24320316|Maximum densities of east-central Florida populations of the tropical peripheral fishes, Oostethus brachyurus lineatus, Gobiomorus dormitor, Awaous tajasica and Gobionellus pseudofasciatus occurred during the winter and spring months in the lower portions of freshwater tributaries to the Indian River lagoon. All populations declined during the wet season, reaching minimum levels during peak rainfall periods. Specific microhabitat requirements were observed for each species. These species have a limited Florida range which is discussed relative to various environmental parameters and dispersal mechanisms, such as water temperature regimes, oceanic current patterns and particular microhabitat preferences.
24319910|Fungal filaments from Millepora complanata Lamarck were observed after mass expulsion of zooxanthellae. The hijphae were characterized using light and scanning microscopy and Gomori's methenamine silver stain.
24322460|Three hundred and seventy-two Florida specimens of the Bronze Frog (Lithobates clamitans clamitans) were examined to determine seasonal activity, gonadal cycle, growth, and sexual maturity of this geographically wide-ranging species at the southeastern edge of the species range. Post-metamorphic individuals were active throughout the year based on captures. Metamorphoslings were captured during February-September, although emergence may have been nearly continuous. Depending on location, calling ranged from May-September to continuous. Gravid females were captured during April-December, but evidence suggested potential for gravid females during January-March. Extended breeding, small metamorphoslings (mean = 24.1 mm), and rapid growth to sexual maturity (59 mo. after transformation) at small body sizes in males (40.7 mm) and females (49.1 mm) and small mean body sizes of adults (61.5 mm SVL in males, 66.8 mm SVL in females) of Florida populations typified the extreme southern pattern of this geographically wide-ranging North American anuran.
24321470|Nine species of saprophytic hyphomycetes (anamorphic fungi), collected on plant debris from two different localities of southeast Florida, are recorded for the first time from the United States. They are: Anungitea fragilis, Beltraniella havanensis, Canalisporium caribense, Circinotrichum papakurae, Dictyosporium micronesicum, Dictyosporium subramanianii, Dischloridium laeense, Gyrothrix verticillata and Piricauda cochinensis. Comments about their taxonomy, ecology and geographical distribution are included. Five infrequently reported species and twenty additional widespread taxa are also listed.
24319467|New localities are cited off Honduras, Yucatn, Florida and North Carolina for this species which is best known from southern tropical Atlantic coastal waters.
24321270|Rivulus marmoratus (Pisces: Aplocheilidae) is a small cyprinodontid indigenous to mangroves of the western tropical Atlantic. This species is well known as the only self-fertilizing, hermaphroditic vertebrate, and populations normally consist of genetically diverse groups of homozygous clones. However, male fish are known from a few populations, and outcrossing and heterozygosity have been documented from two areas in Central America. Rivulus marmoratus also exhibits a number of behaviors and environmental tolerances unusual in fishes, and since the species is secretive, rare in some habitats and difficult to collect, knowledge of its natural history has been limited until recently. Within the last decade field and laboratory work and ongoing investigations into R. marmoratus genetics have added greatly to our knowledge of this unusual fish. This study provides a general review of the biology and ecology of R. marmoratus.
24319413|The Ruby-Throat Hummingbird is known to feed from at least 31 plant species in 21 genera among 18 families. A review of prior records supplemented by personal observations seems to indicate that co-evolution may have occurred with some plants and the birds. A correlation also exists between flowering times and migration.
24321209|The mating behavior of the different live-bearing fish species within the family Poeciliidae varies widely. Several species, such as guppies (Poecilia reticulata), sailfin mollies (Poecilia latipinna) and swordtails (Xiphophorus hellerij are well-studied. However, very little information has been recorded regarding the largest poeciliid, the pike killifish ("Belonesox belizanus). This work documents the courtship behavior of male pike killifish, a species which persists within the United States, only in Florida. Unlike males in the non-courting Poeciliidae species, pike killifish males repeatedly conduct particular behavioral acts when in the presence of females. Females do not conduct this suite of behaviors. A courting male will position himself in front of, and perpendicular to a female, and fan his fins and gonopodium (male mating structure), in her direction, prior to attempting to mate. His coloration becomes more vibrant during a display, which is often followed by mating attempts. Pike killifish compose a monotypic genus that has previously been used as an outgroup when studying relationships between live-bearing species. Thus, documenting the courtship behavior of this species is relevant for use in studies where mating-behavior comparisons are being made across genera within this family.
24319704|Birds were sampled over a 1-yr period in a south Florida flatwoods habitat. Forty-nine species were recorded: 32 permanent residents; 13 winter residents; and 4 summer residents. The total number of species was high in the fall and winter and low in the spring. Granivores were dominant during the summer, but insectivores were dominant during the winter. Relative to granivores and insectivores, very few omnivorous and carnivorous species were observed. Density and species diversity of birds in the flatwoods were much higher than those reported for North American grasslands but lower than those reported from pine woodland areas in Georgia.
24321437|Copper contamination in south Florida citrus grove soils have led to concerns over the potential impact of copper (Cu) in the aquatic environment. Surface freshwater monitoring data for south Florida were collected from on-line databases to evaluate risk from Cu contamination by comparing those data to water quality criteria (WQC) based on both water hardness and the biotic ligand model (BLM). On average, BLM-based chronic WQC were 1.8 times greater than hardness-based chronic WQC at the same location. As a result, Cu concentrations at 11.8 percent of the sampling stations exceeded hardness-based chronic WQC, while Cu at 1.3 percent of the stations exceeded the BLM-based chronic WQC. Based on the available monitoring data and risk predicted by the BLM, there is a low risk of adverse impact from Cu contamination in the freshwater aquatic community in south Florida.
24320554|In south-central Florida, honey bees (Apis mellifera L.) of European descent occupied nest boxes with round entrance holes of about 7.9 cm2 (3.2 cm diameter), but rejected those with areas of about 31.7 cm (6.4 cm diameter). They also accepted boxes with nest volumes ranging from 10.2 to 13.2 L, considerably smaller than any recorded natural nest or human-made nest box occupied by honey bee swarms in northern regions. The strong behavioral difference between populations in semitropical and cool-temperate regions may reflect genetic differences or non genetic based flexibility in response to differing environmental conditions.
24319382|The introduction to the marketplace of solar equipment which does not meet performance expectations can have a serious detrimental effect on the industry and solar energy utilization in general. The equipment which industry produces must be efficient and well constructed. The best method of assuring that this will be the case is to have available a well thought out and executed solar equipment testing program. This paper reviews some flat plate collector and solar water heater testing literature and describes programs presently in existence. The theoretical basis for flat plate collector thermal performance criteria is discussed as are collector diagnostic testing techniques.
24321543|Four species of tardigrade were recovered from samples of mosses, lichens, and leaf litter collected at six sites in the Florida Keys. Diversity of tardigrade species in the Florida Keys was lower than on the Florida mainland, and was consistent with a documented decline in tardigrade diversity from north to south in peninsular Florida.
24320491|A stand of cogongrass was burned in February 1983, and the regrowth sprayed with 0.5, 1.0, and 2.0% solutions (v/v) of glyphosate in either April, August, or November of the same year. Plant density was estimated immediately before each treatment and again in July 1984 and 1985. Plant control with the 2% glyphosate treatment differed significantly (p<0.05) from the 0.5 and 1.0% solution treatments only after the November application date. Glyphosate as a 2% solution appeared to control cogongrass satisfactorily for at least 2 yr (91% mortality), while control after the August application never exceeded 40%. Controlling cogongrass in forests will be required to effectuate adequate natural regeneration of pines or survival of planted seedlings and to maintain natural diversity of plant species.
24319678|Quantitative data have been presented for the occurrence and primary productivity of marine algae growing on the roots of red mangrove in southern Puerto Rico. The wet weight of algae per root (of nine roots) averaged 274g. The average number of algal species per root (of ten roots) was 5.1 and the greatest number per root was ten. A list of species which were dominant on individual roots includes: Acanthophora spicifera, Anadyomene stellata, Batophora oerstedii, Caulerpa racemosa, C. verticillata, Dictyota dichotoma, Halimeda incrassata, Valonia ventricosa, Wrangelia bicuspidata, and occasionally others. In a set of typical physiological observations on 14 kinds of algae chlorophyll a content averaged 2.11 mg g-1, carbon fixed in mg per g dry wt per day averaged 34.1 with the oxygen method and 14.7 with the 14C technique. The flora of an average root was calculated to produce in gross photosynthesis 1.47 g C per day, and in "net" assimilation with the 14C method about 0.64 g C per day. The flora of a mangrove root appears to produce about as much organic matter per day as has been observed in a square meter column of phytoplankton in moderately rich tropical lagoons.
24319750|About 68.0% of all animal phyla have only free-living species, and approximately 11.0% of all animal phyla have only parasitic species.
24320191|A needs assessment of Cuban and Haitian refugees living in Tampa was conducted from November 1982 through May 1983 by using key informant interviews and by surveying 57 community leaders who had been involved with refugee resettlement. Forty-one (72 % ) respondents completed and returned a mailed questionnaire. The results yielded a priority ranking of refugee home management needs. The top-ranked needs were learning to speak English (35 responses), learning how to look for a job (31 responses), and medical care (26 responses). Social service agencies in Tampa have tended to give top priority to these needs.
24319605|Coca-cola is absolved. Bologna and potato chips are brain foods.
24319507|The perennial submersed aquatic plant, Hydrilla verticillata Royle has been grown in the laboratory in flasks (250, 500 ml), carboys (20 I), and large tank (350 I). Rates of oxygen production have been measured for each, and the advantages and disadvantages of each size container for measuring viability-growth studies are considered. Flasks could be used for screening studies, but were unsuitable for kinetic studies (rate of production of oxygen) which were done with 20 l and 350 I containers. Comparable kinetic data can be obtained with both containers, but the 350 I system is less likely to cause plant stress owing to oxygen supersaturation. The possibility for reducing plant growth by addition of Chelex-100 was explored.
24321254|Studies were conducted to identify the behavioral components of maternal behavior of the shrew, Blarina carolinensis, in non-manipulated litters, and to assess the effects of litter gender composition (LGC) on subsequent maternal behavior. Maternal behaviors consisted of nursing, licking, nest maintenace, retrieval of young, and miscellaneous (non-maternal) activities including eating, drinking, grooming, scratching, and sleeping. Weaning occured between 2324 days of age. On day 13, when male and female pups could first be distinguished from one another on the basis of the appearance of mammae in females, 13 litters containing 5 pups each were culled to 4 and randomly assigned to 1 of 3 treatment groups: MM (all males), MF (2 males and 2 females), and FF (all females). Behavioral interactions between mothers and their young were observed from day 2 to day 22. There were no significant differences in mass between the treatment groups for individual neonates and litters over the entire weaning period. At birth, neonates ranged from 0.670.74 g, and the weight of the entire litters ranged from 2.433.17 g. At weaning, the pups weighed between 8.849.47 g, with no significant gender differences. Maternal behavior was more pronounced in the days immediately following birth. There was a significant decrease in the frequency of nursing and licking between days 2 and 22 following birth, and an increase in miscellaneous activities. The amount of time spent in nursing, licking, and nest maintenance decreased significantly, with a similar increase for miscellaneous activities. MM mothers showed a higher frequency and duration of nursing and licking than those from the MF and FF groups. In B. carolinensis, LGC affects some aspects of maternal behavior but not the physical development of offspring.
24320612|We examined predation on artificial ground nests in southwestern Florida from May to July 1989. No predation was found on artificial ground nests in pine flatwoods (N=180) during three, 8-day trials. In contrast, 100% predation occurred on nests (N=30) in wetland and hammock habitat during one, 8-day trial. Predation was attributed to mammalian predators, most likely feral hogs and raccoons. Although feral hogs are thought to be important predators of eggs in ground nests, the results of this study indicate that feral hogs were not important predators on ground nests in the pine flatwoods habitat where most ground-nesting occurs. Our limited observations indicate that predation levels by feral hogs, and other mammals could have greater impacts in wetland and hammock habitats, and further study in these habitats is warranted.
24320671|Davian behavior was reported for two anurans, the Cuban treefrog (Osteopilus septentrionalis) and the southern toad (Bufo terrestris). The episodes were initiated by automobiles having killed the females with which the males amplected. Because of high probability of mortality on the road and no chance of successful reproduction, this behavior reduces the fitness of participating males. Davian behavior represents a Darwinian dilemma because the drive to mate overrides the loss of fitness incurred by a type of misdirected copulation for which adaptations to guard against do not appear to exist. Consequently, recent human-mediated circumstances that provide false mates at frequencies not realized in nature remain a novel counter-selective agent to indiscriminate mate choice in males.
24321022|Barbronia weberi (Blanchard, 1897), an Asian freshwater leech predaceous on invertebrates, is reported from Florida. This is the first record of this species in North America. Anatomical and distributional notes are given for the species.
24321087|The D-ribose high-affinity transport operon (RbsDACBKR) of Escherichia coli encodes the proteins necessary for high-affinity transport and utilization of D-ribose. rbsD encodes a 15 kDa protein that is not essential for D-ribose high-affinity transport. RbsD is unique as a component of a highaffinity transport system in that it has a TonB box at its amino terminus. Neither RbsD or RbsK are required for D-ribose high-affinity transport, but their potential interaction with each other has not been examined. Characterization of a rbs operon mutant at the TonB box of RbsD implicates the RbsD gene product as a regulator of ribokinase (RbsK) activity.
24319663|Kinosternon punctatum Gray is a junior synonym of Kinosternon subrubrum subrubrum (Lacpde), not Kinosternon subrubrum steindachneri (Siebenrock) as the type locality suggests.
24321106|Transmission electron microscope observations made from 1995 and 2000 phytoplankton samples revealed two protists new to Florida, Cochliopodium bilimbosum (Auerbach) Leidy and Lepidotrachelophyllum fornicus Nicholls and Lynn.
24320088|Samples of mature leaves from various plant species were collected from experimental plots located at Kennedy Space Center during August 1973 and April 1974. Concentrations of the following elements were measured in each of the samples using atomic absorption techniques: K, Na, Ca, Mg, Fe, Mn, Zn, Cu, and Al. The concentrations of B and Mo were found to be below the sensitivity of the method.
24319974|Groundwater in Florida has been contaminated by serveral classes of chemicals. Regulatory interest in these chemicals has focused on impacts such as the loss of potable water supplies as well as cleanup and reclamation strategies. Also of interest, but often overlooked, are chemical transformation processes that occur in the subsurface aquatic environment. Using laboratory microcosms as model groundwater systems, we studied: (a) hydrolysis reactions and related processes involving aldicarb, a carbamate pesticide, including possible changes that could occur upon interaction with surface waters; (b) the degradation of industrial and petroleum derived organic chemicals; and (c) the abiotic conversion of 1,1,1,-trichloroethane to 1,1-dichloroethene. The application of these laboratory model results to field sites can provide useful interpretive information about the fate of these classes of chemicals in groundwater.
24319961|Grass carp, Ctenopharyngodon idella 61/ha, were introduced into a 1900-ha North-Florida reservoir with dense populations of Illinois pondweed, Potamogeton illinoensis, and Eurasian watermilfoil, Myriophyllum spicatum. Aquatic vegetation and benthic macroinvertebrates were monitored for forty-one months. Grass carp feeding activities eliminated Illinois pondweed two years after initial stocking, and the Eurasian watermilfoil was greatly reduced three years after stocking. In spite of the reduction in the aquatic plant habitat, total benthic macroinvertebrates increased significantly. Much of the increase occurred among the Chironomini (Diptera), Oligochaeta, and Tanytarsini (Diptera). The progressive increase in total catch of invertebrates may be related to degree of macrophyte removal by grass carp. Partial control of vegetation was achieved during the second year and early third year, corresponding with an average 73% increase in benthos. Near total control of the vegetation occurred in late third and fourth years, with a corresponding 274% increase in benthic invertebrates over that present in the first year. We hypothesize that depletion of the macrophytes and deposition of partially digested plant material by grass carp could increase available food by release of nutrients for periphytic algal production and subsequent utilization by benthos (planktonic chlorophyll a decreased). The increase in particulate organic matter (indicated by a significant increase in turbidity and Kjeldahl nitrogen) would also favor an increase in benthic detritivores.
24321448|Sedimentary organic matter composition and distribution in the tidal reaches of the Alafia and Little Manatee Rivers were studied to compare such data for a river with extensive watershed alterations (Alafia River) to one that has a less altered watershed (Little Manatee River). Sediment samples were analyzed for percent sand, silt, and clay, organic matter, protein, lipid, carbohydrate, lignin phenols (LP), fatty acids (FA), and C:N ratios. Sediments in the Alafia River were generally higher in organic matter than in the Little Manatee River. Overall, the concentrations of LPs and FAs were high where organic matter was high in both rivers. Concentrations of sedimentary LPs were greater in the Alafia River sediments than in the Little Manatee River. Concentrations of FAs were higher in the Little Manatee River compared with the Alafia River. The data indicate that the dominant source of sedimentary organic matter appears to be allocthonous (external) in the Alafia river and autochthonous (internal) in the Little Manatee river. Sedimentary organic matter composition can be a potential tool for evaluating watershed influences on river systems.
24321183|The Florida Everglades, an ecosystem suffering from decades of human impact, will undergo hydrologic and nutrient restoration through surface water discharges from Stormwater Treatment Areas (STAs). The potential for vegetation change in response to these restoration efforts, as well as natural disturbances, may be influenced by the existing seedbank composition. Soils in Water Conservation Area 2A, which will receive STA discharges, were cored to a depth of 5 cm in May 1998 and to 5, 10, and 20 cm in October 1998. Seedling emergence assays were used to characterize the seedbank of these soils in relation to existing vegetation and restoration target species. In both assays, Typha domingensis seedlings only emerged from the 05 cm layer of soils collected from Typha-dominated sites. In contrast, two species that are primary indicators of unimpacted wet prairie/slough habitat (Rhynchospora spp. and Eleocharis spp.) were far more abundant in Cladium jamaicense-dominated soils. No emergence of C. jamaicense seedlings occurred in either assay. In addition, to observe natural seedbank recruitment from nutrient-enriched soils, vegetation was manually cleared from four 16m2 field plots at three different Typha-dominated areas. In each plot, a virtually monospecific plant community comprised of Amaranthus australis became established. The results of this study indicate that seedbank recruitment of T. domingensis outside the boundaries of existing populations in this region may be quite limited. Furthermore, the contribution of the seedbank to restoration of Rhynchospora/Eleocharis wet prairie and C. jamaicense habitat may be negligible given that viable seeds of these species appear to be few and have a narrow distribution range in this region. The results are discussed in the context of vegetation management and restoration.
24321597|The present study describes the effectiveness of efforts to produce on larger scale a material called Cuprilig, which is the copper(II) derivative of Octolig, a commercially available immobilized ligand. Octolig consists of polyethylenediamine moieties covalently bound to a high-surface area silica gel (CAS Registry number = 404899-06-5). Cuprilig is useful for removing from water arsenate, orthophosphate, nitrate, nitrite, perchlorate, and several other anions. Cuprilig, for example, is able to remove arsenate (300 ppb, > 99% removal) effectively through column chromatography, and other similar successes have been demonstrated. The usefulness of such a material is evident, as is the need to be able to produce it on a larger scale. Reasonable calculations have suggested that commercial synthesis of Cuprilig would not be feasible because calculations would indicated that no more than 5 ppm copper(II) ion could be used or the reduced pH would limit effective chelation. Nevertheless, successful syntheses did occur using 4255 ppm Cu(II) as copper(II) sulfate pentahydrate. A working hypothesis is that an impurity with base properties was produced during the synthesis and was adsorbed onto the high-surface area of the silica gel present in Octolig. The present study examined the pH, TDS (total dissolved solids), and the visible spectra of fractions produced in the preparation of Cuprilig using column chromatography with Octolig and elution with 0.0670 M CuSO4.
24320424|McCarty Woods is a 2.2 ha tract located in the Brooksville Ridge region of west central Florida. It forms the western portion of the larger Chinsegut Hill and Robins Memorial Forest Preserve. The vegetation of McCarty Woods is southern mixed hardwoods dominated by Quercus michauxii (Basket Oak), Q. virginiana (Live Oak), Q. nigra (Water Oak), Carpinus caroliniana (Hornbeam), Liquidambar styraciflua (Sweetgum) and other hardwoods. The site has not burned since before 1932. The vascular flora of the site includes 82 species in 45 families. Twenty seven tree species occur on the site and approximately 38 % of these are known to occur in southern mixed hardwood forests. McCarty Woods supports 55 species of understory shrubs, vines, and herbs, three of which are rare species currently listed as threatened or endangered.
24319558|Expatriates from upland streams found in the lower Mississippi River main channel may have illustrated the process of "tributary hopping" (ie., a stepwise movement from one habitable tributary to the next via the main channels of large rivers). Two types of tributary hopping exist: an active method, stimulated by behavioral mechanisms, entailing a brief migration; and a passive method, involving "waif immigrants" or floodborne transients. An analysis of Mississippi Embayment geology suggests that a large scale dispersal took place in the lower Mississippi River during Pleistocene glacial periods whereas tributary hopping by passive (waif dispersal) and active mechanisms occurred during the middle and late Pleistocene interglacial periods.
24320660|A 2.02-km section of gas pipeline trench was surveyed six times from 15 September through 10 October 1994, in Gadsden County, Florida, for trapped wildlife. The trench traversed old field upland pine habitat, upland hardwood forest, slope forest, and bottomland forest. The dimensions and effectiveness of the trench at trapping animals varied due to differences in digging equipment, soil characteristics, extent of erosion and sedimentation, and flooding. The trench captured a minimum of 459 amphibians (19 species) and 12 reptiles (seven species). Six species of hylid frogs accounted for 67% of all captures, and the most commonly captured species were Cope's gray treefrog (Hyla chrysoscelis), squirrel treefrog (H. squirella), and bird-voiced treefrog (H. avivoca). About 80% of all anuran captures were immature animals, whereas mostly adult salamanders were captured. Noteworthy captures were two four-toed salamanders (Hemidactylium scutatum), which are rarely encountered in Florida. The only mortality observed was seven amphibians, but other dead animals may have been buried in sediments or under water. This trench proved to be an effective means of sampling amphibian communities, especially treefrogs, which are under-sampled by the technique of drift fencing. Tracks of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and medium-sized carnivores were observed in the trench. The only mammal observed was a dead deer fawn.
24320301|Iron, copper and zinc were monitored in the water, sediments, and 4 species of fish of the upper St. Johns River, Florida. Surface water concentrations of total iron commonly exceeded 300 ug/l, the standard established by the Florida Department of Environmental Regulation for waters intended for public consumption (Class I waters). Total iron levels in the upper St. Johns River are regulated by a series of interacting natural processes such as the ironphosphate cycle, inputs from nonartesian groundwater or bank seepage, complexation with dissolved organic compounds, increased land runoff during perids of high flow, and resuspension of bottom sediments during periods of increased discharge or wind mixing. Groundwater inputs in the headwaters region due to agricultural irrigation practices, in addition to runoff and groundwater seepage into the drainage canals entering the river, have significantly increased its trace metal content. Elevated trace metal levels were also found in sediments and fish tissue in the river. The results of multiple regression analyses indicated that as the extent of urban activity increases in undeveloped watersheds of the upper St. Johns River, total copper and total zinc concentrations in the surface waters of the watershed can also be expected to increase.
24319513|Fossil specimens of Caecum have been recovered in well-cuttings from the Miocene of Florida. The specimens are identified and described primarily by their microarchitectural patterns.
24319690|Two-stage cluster sample design was applied in the random digit dialing (RDD) household survey in Florida. The pilot survey in Sarasota County showed that this method reduced the proportion of unused numbers sharply; the chances of reaching eligible numbers were 31 % in the primary sample and 44 % in the cluster sample. The survey also showed that an evening interview had a better completion rate than did a daytime interview.
24321934|The Perdido Key beach mouse (Peromyscus polionotus trissyllepsis) is a federally endangered rodent with a highly restricted geographic range. Minimally invasive sampling (tail tips) provides small amounts of starting tissue, which when combined with high levels of inbreeding, requires large genotyping panels in order to resolve patterns of relationships, dispersal, and other phenomena of interest. We screened 74 published Peromyscus spp. loci and demonstrated the utility of whole genome amplification (WGA) to produce repeatable genotypes. Of 74 screened loci, 50 were successfully amplified, and 24 were variable in captive beach mice. Screening of a subset of 23 mono- and polymorphic loci on wild Perdido Key mice revealed that 1) additional variation exists in 11 monomorphic colony loci, and 2) that substantial genetic variation may be missing from the captive colony, relative to the wild, source population. Together these resources should provide valuable genetic information on the repatriation, breeding success and dispersal in Perdido Key beach mouse populations.
24321153|Wildlife mortality was documented for one year on a 3.2 km section of U.S. Highway 441 in Alachua County, Florida, prior to construction of a wildlife barrier/underpass system. A total of 1,821 vertebrates, representing 62 species, were recorded dead on the road during 105 sampling days; counts were conducted weekly for 52 consecutive weeks. The most common species killed were green treefrog (Hyla cinerea; n = 296), southern leopard frog (Rana sphenocephala; 230), Florida water snake (Nerodia fasciata pictiventris; 194). pig frog (Rana grylio; 145), and green water snake (Nerodia floridana; 119). U.S. Highway 441 at Paynes Prairie appears to have one of the highest levels of snake road mortality ever reported; dead snakes were obseiwed at a rate of 1.854 individuals per km surveyed (336 km surveyed/623 snakes killed).
24321271|We captured 30 spotted seatrout, Cynoscion nebulosus, from J.N. 'Ding' Darling National Wildlife Refuge in 1998 in order to determine the concentration of mercury in muscle tissue. We compared mercury levels found in this study with mercury levels found in C. nebulosus captured in 1990 in the refuge. We also regressed concentration of mercury against specimen wet weight for 1998 data. We found that the average concentration of mercury in C. nebulosus (0.235 ppm, wet weight) in 1998 was significantly less than the average in 1990 (0.396 ppm, wet weight). No significant relationship existed between mercury concentration and specimen whole body wet weight. Differences in laboratory procedures and/or reductions in natural or anthropogenic inputs of mercury may have contributed to the reduction in mercury concentrations between the two years.
24319474|Procambrus erythrops, described from Suwannee County, is a detritus feeder inhabiting the higher energy zones of the cave.
24321940|Global sea level has been rising for the last 20,000+ years at rates ranging from 0.33.3 feet/century, and has submerged Florida's pre-Holocene coast by over 400 feet. The instrumental record started in Key West in 1845, but had many gaps until 1913, after which it is nearly continuous; the rate of rise there since 1913 is 0.740.03 feet per century. For the ensemble of all other near-century-long Florida records (Pensacola [0.71 feet/century], Cedar Key [0.53 feet/century], St. Petersburg [0.82 feet/century], Miami Beach [0.75 feet/century], Mayport [0.77 feet/century], and Fernandina Beach [0.65 feet/century]) the average rate of rise is 0.730.09 feet per century. At Key West during 19132013, there is no statistically significant evidence of accelerated sea level rise. Guidance for estimating future sea level from NOAA and from the US Army Corps of Engineers relies on using projections of global sea level adapted to a local site; such federal criteria for Florida would place sea level in 2100 anywhere from 0.76.6 feet above the 2001 level; United Nations projections are between 0.93.3 feet by 2100.
24320307|From early in this century, those involved in the Criminal Justice System concluded that it should be approached as a discipline and subject to the empiricism of cause and effect. However, coupled with certain erroneous presumptions, the failure to adequately define the problem at the outset has prevented agreement and conclusion on objectives, and efforts undertaken seem at times to aggravate the crime problem. Construction of an etiological typology of criminal offenders uncovers the real objectives for a Criminal Justice System and shows what strategies should be developed. A typology recognizing crime as a manifestation of normal, conformist conduct as well as deviant conduct leads to the conclusion that there are multiple objectives to be achieved by a Criminal Justice System. These objectives, then, show the need for strategies of support, management, deterrence, retribution, and protection.
24319556|Psammaquents occur in lower marsh and Haplaquods in the upper marsh sites. Sulfaquents were found at the mouth of the Suwannee River.
24321163|Hurricanes drastically affect shallow coral reef ecosystems by physically removing and fragmenting biological organisms, or scouring them as massive amounts of sand and rubble are displaced. This study assesses the impact of a Category I hurricane on populations of the weedy brown macroalga Dictyota in the Florida Keys, and considers the fate of the algal biomass shredded and displaced by subsequent water flow. In October 1999, Hurricane Irene decimated Dictyota spp. populations, however fragments created remained viable despite their traumatic generation, settled and formed attachment rhizoids within 2 days, and then began to grow. This study shows that a large-scale physical disturbance (hurricane) can be beneficial to weedy, opportunistic, asexually reproducing species, such as Dictyota, that form rhizoidal attachments faster than other macroalgal species, and can lead to large-scale population recovery within weeks.
24321478|This paper describes water column characteristics in a shallow bay environment surrounding an intensive clam aquaculture use area. Parameters included in the study were nutrient content (nitrite + nitrate, ammonium, total nitrogen, soluble reactive phosphorus and total phosphorus), algal abundance (chlorophyll a), sediment load (total suspended solids), and water clarity (turbidity). Spatial gradients across the aquaculture use area were examined to explore the possible role of the use area as a source or sink of the water column constituents. The results show higher concentrations of most parameters on the east side of the use area than the west side, with the exception of ammonium. Ammonium concentrations were consistently higher upstream of the use area than downstream on both ebb and flood tides. Based on these observations, the Alligator Harbor aquaculture use area may be a source or sink of nutrient, and particulate load within the bay, depending on the tidal cycle, and potentially other hydrologie conditions. By contrast, the use area appears to be a consistent source of ammonium.
24320706|Coastal shark species generally utilize shallow, inshore bays and estuaries as nursery grounds. These are typically areas of high productivity where juvenile sharks find abundant prey and where they are less exposed to predation by large sharks. Human activities in these nursery ground areas can lead to a significant impact on the juvenile sharks, primarily in the form of habitat degradation and fishing mortality. In Tampa Bay, fishing mortality of sharks is both direct from the recreational fishery as well as indirect in the form of bycatch by recreational anglers and commercial gill-netters, especially in the mackerel fishery near the mouth of the bay. Tampa Bay serves as a nursery area for most of the year for several resident species of sharks and as a seasonal nursery area for several transient species. In the past two years, we have captured 943 sharks of ten different species, including newborns of four species and juveniles of nine species, in all areas of Tampa Bay, but the vast majority of these have been captured in the more pristine, less developed habitats of southern Tampa Bay where healthy grass flats appear to be very important as nursery ground habitat. Especially important are the grass flats in the area of Rattlesnake Key near the Manatee River, and the area between the Sunshine Skyway bridge and Coquina Key, including the Pinellas Point area.
24321548|The nutrient content and moisture availability of soils have the potential to influence the transition from seed to seedling. We investigated seedling emergence and growth of a shrub that has invaded many ecosystems in peninsular Florida, Brazilian pepper (Schinus terebinthifolius). We performed a laboratory experiment comparing two soil types (hammock vs. swamp) and two watering frequencies in a fully factorial design. We monitored seedling emergence weekly for eight weeks and measured seedling height at the end of the experiment. Two times as many seedlings emerged in swamp soil compared to hammock soil, and high watering frequency increased seedling emergence by approximately 10% in both soil types. The rate of seedling emergence changed over time, interacting with watering frequency and soil type. Seedling height increased with watering frequency, but was not different between soil types. Our results suggest that soil type, and to a lesser degree water availability, influence the establishment of Brazilian pepper in native plant communities in South Florida.
24320248|We used survey methods to characterize hypertension in a relatively isolated West Indian population. Results indicated that excellent discrimination between hospitalized and nonhospitalized hypertensives and controls was available using the following variables: age, gender, weight, family history, herb usage, salt intake, smoke intake, anxiety, and personal problems. These findings support previous work on high blood pressure in populations from other Western nations.
24319921|Sand pine scrub tends to burn only under extreme fire-weather conditions, thus exhibiting extreme (uncontrollable and unpredictable) fire behavior. The objective of this study was to develop a prescription to burn sand pine scrub under controlled conditions. A modified fuel model was developed to represent the sand pine scrub community. Using afire spread model to predict fire behavior, a prescription for burning this fuel type was written and tested on two fires, in the Yamato Scrub. The results of the burns suggest that an effective, safe means exists to burn sand pine scrub under controlled conditions.
24320508|The determination of elemental carbon (EC) in air particulate matter using optical methods assumes that EC is the only light-absorbing species; however, the presence of significant amounts of (colored) inorganic species would falsely elevate the measured EC concentration. Based on inlet characteristics of the sampling device and particle size distribution, the inorganic content of air particulate samples collected on filters varies significantly. This paper describes the magnitude of this effect for several sampling devices. The interference was found to be 10% or less, depending on the sampling device used.
24320556|Flavonoids from leafy branchlets of stressed and unstressed bald-cypress (Taxodium distichum (L.) L.C. Rich.) were compared using two dimensional paper chromatography. Plant material was collected from equivalent-aged mature individuals of bald-cypress growing in a single divided stand in St. Johns County, Florida. State Road 13, constructed in 1937, blocked normal drainage from the eastern portion of the cypress wetland resulting in an increase in the duration and depth of standing water. Interstitial water pH was lower and KCl-extractable aluminum was higher in the undrained site. Methanolic extracts from trees in the eastern and western parts of the population differed in that three putative flavonoids present on chromatograms from unstressed trees were not found in trees subjected to prolonged flooding and one flavonoid compound was found only in stressed trees.
24320293|Black Calabash, Amphitecna latifolia, is reported in northern Palm Beach County at the north end of Lake Worth, a range extension of more than 160 km north of any previously known population in Florida. This population may be the result of an early horticultural introduction or it may be native to the area.
24320205|Subsurface temperature data from 8 stations were obtained for 6 wk during the summer of 1978 to describe seasonal upwelling along the Atlantic coast of Florida just south of Cape Canaveral. Available data show one major upwelling event occurring during the first 3 wk of August. Bottom temperatures suggest that cool water advances rapidly toward the coast, and nearshore water cools by as much as 7C within 2 wk. A strong thermocline is maintained throughout the upwelling event. The available data base is inadequate to resolve the primary forcing mechanisms, but related studies suggest that upwelling may occur in response to the Florida Current as much as to the coastal wind field.
24320319|The gecko Hemidactylus brooki and the boa Epicrates f. fordi are recorded from Isla Saona, Repblica Dominicana, for the first time. Additional specimens of the iguanid lizard Anolis baleatus lineatacervix, which is endemic to Saona and was named on the basis of a single specimen, are described.
24321250|The first documented report of escolar chino off the U.S. Atlantic coast is presented. This record represents a modest extension to the known geographic distribution of the species; but it is nevertheless a new addition to the fishes known to occur in U.S. coastal waters. Morphometric and meristic data are given to enhance the brief original description. The escolar chino caught off Florida had slightly barbed canine teeth and more scales in the lateral line than the specimen described by Poey. Histological analysis revealed a female with regressed (or class 1) ovaries. The taxonomy of the escolar chino is briefly reviewed.
24320557|Significant amounts of dolomite (calcium magnesium carbonate) found in Florida phosphate deposits, south of those presently mined, are troublesome because of the problems caused by enhanced magnesium concentrations in the production of phosphoric acid through wet methods. The removal of dolomite from phosphate ore was studied using a buffer system, i.e., mixture of ammonium sulfate and carbonic acid. Two different sources of phosphate pebble were studied. Carbonic acid was supplied using excess carbon dioxide bubbled into standard solutions of ammonium sulfate. The quantity of magnesium was based on the analysis of leaching liquor by atomic absorption spectrometry. Experimental results showed that the calcium and magnesium were not leached in equimolar amounts as they would be if dolomite alone were the source of the ions; much more calcium was leached than magnesium. Concentrations of ammonium sulfate were varied from 0 to 1.0 M, and leaching increased at room temperature with increasing concentration of ammonium sulfate. Using 0.1 M ammonium sulfate, and changing the leaching temperature from 7 to 45C, we found that the amount of magnesium and calcium increased with temperature. Finally, the effect of pebble size (35-60 mesh and -230 mesh) was compared; with the smaller size pebbles (ca.-230 mesh), calcium was especially favored over magnesium. Implications are considered.
24321651|The objective of this research was to determine whether the survival and growth rate of transplanted seagrasses is hindered by sediment sulfide addition and bacterial community disruption. A microcosm experiment was designed to control for temperature, salinity, and light availability. Bare root transplanted seagrass shoots were exposed to one of four treatments; plus sulfide, plus autoclave; minus sulfide, plus autoclave; plus sulfide, unmanipulated (not autoclaved); and minus sulfide, unmanipulated. Bare root transplants had less than half the rate of growth of the control that was transplanted as a plug with sediments, demonstrating the sensitivity of root disturbance in Thalassia testudinum. Bare root transplants in autoclaved sediments grew slower than in unmanipulated sediments regardless of sulfide treatments. The greatest amount of extractable DNA was measured in bare root transplanted treatments that had not been autoclaved. Standard diversity indices along with a Bray-Curtis similarity index of Terminal Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism in a MDS were used to assess community composition. The MDS showed no significant differences, while comparisons of diversity indices indicated differences between transplants and control. The results support the conclusion that an intact sediment bacterial community increases transplant success, but the nature of the interaction (e.g., functional, structural) remains unclear.
24319935|Several specimens of the South American cichlid Geoghagus surinamensis were collected from a southeast Florida canal. Our collections and observations document the possible establishment of this exotic fish in Florida.
24321653|Six Mile Cypress Slough Preserve is an approximately 1100 ha cypress swamp, encircled by residential and commercial development and crossed by four highways. Road construction, land development, and water management have significantly reduced the historic watershed from over 14,500 ha to approximately 8500 ha. This reduction in watershed area, along with suppression of fire, proliferation of invasive exotic species, and past logging appears to have had a profound ecological impact on the swamp, resulting in suboptimal water depths and hydroperiods for the sustainable maintenance of the cypress forest. In 2006, Kevin Erwin Consulting Ecologist and Florida Gulf Coast University established a long-term monitoring program of hydrology and vegetation in the swamp. The objectives of the monitoring are to examine the dynamics of surface- and -ground water, and to examine the relationships between hydrology and vegetation dynamics. Preliminary analysis of the first two years of hydrologic monitoring illustrates the annual variability of hydroperiods, the fine spatial variance in rainfall inputs, and the impact of human activity on surface and groundwater levels in adjacent areas of the swamp. Future study includes examining the impact of large rainfall events, and correlating hydrology to vegetation to determine the likelihood of maintaining a cypress-dominated forest.
24320163|The Jack Dempsey, Cichlasoma octofasciatum, native to southern Mexico, Guatemala, Yucatan and Honduras, is reportedly established in Dade, Hillsborough and Brevard counties, Florida. In 1982, a population was found in a creek on the University of Florida campus, Alachua County, Florida. Collections and observations during 1982-1985 document this population's status and provide information on the biology of this species. This population represents the northernmost distribution known for Cichlasoma species in Florida.
24320585|Students enrolled in General Chemistry II at Brevard Community College were given assignments requiring the use of a computer and molecular modeling software in an effort to improve their understanding of molecular geometry. These assignments were given as part of a unit on organic chemistry and involved (a) learning the computer's operation, (b) becoming familiar with the basics of molecular modeling, and (c) constructing organic molecules such as amino acids, isomeric forms of hydrocarbons, and steroids. Verbal feedback, evaluations, and classroom observations showed that college freshman students were not only able to master the software and perform the assignments, but showed increased understanding of molecular geometry and heightened enthusiasm for both chemistry and computers.
24321992|We provide observations and a photograph of copulating peninsula mole skinks, Plestiodon egregius onocrepis, in the Ocala National Forest, Marion County, Florida, during March 2010. This is the first vernal record of mating for this autumnal-winter breeding subspecies and the first field observation and photograph of copulation.
24320753|The Florida legislature has made it mandatory that lands disturbed for mining purposes should be reclaimed. Production of wheat [Triticum aestivum (L.) em. Thell] and triticale ( Triticosecale Wittmack) on phosphatic clay settling areas (> 48,000 ha) in south central Florida, could be economically beneficial to the state's livestock industry, while meeting the legislative land reclamation mandate. An experiment was conducted during the 1987 and 1988 growing seasons to study the development and yields of 'Florida 301' wheat and 'Florida 201' triticale, when planted early (mid October to November) and late (mid December to January) under Florida subtropical climatic conditions. The vegetative period averaged 15.5 and 5.5 days more for early planted wheat and triticale, respectively, compared to late planted treatments. Temperature during the growing season was approximately 3C higher at initiation of reproductive developments for late planted treatments vs early planted treatments. This resulted in an average of 14.5 and 15 days reduction of the grain filling period (GFP) of late planted treatments for wheat and triticale, respectively. Under the subtropical conditions of south central Florida, late planting subjected both wheat and triticale crops to higher temperatures, especially during the period of reproductive development. This caused reduction in the duration of grain fill for these crops when planted late in the growing season. Grain yields for late planted treatments were reduced approximately 44 percent for wheat and 48 percent, for triticale compared to early planting for the 1988 growing season. The crops can be grown in the phosphatic clay environment although higher temperatures may reduce yields if planted late in the season. Better yields can be achieved by planting in late November or early December compared to planting in January.
24321234|Human-induced changes in hydrology and nutrients are believed to be responsible for observed shifts in the remnant Everglades landscape from a sawgrass-slough mosaic to one increasingly dominated by emergent vegetation. We examined how changes in food availability caused by this vegetative shift might affect the growth and survival of the Florida applesnail (Pomacea paludosa), a key prey item for many native species. The quality of bulk samples of applesnail foods from slough (benthic periphyton) and sawgrass (macrophyte detritus) were analyzed for nutritional content (% ash, carbohydrate, protein, and lipid content). Newly hatched snails were reared in microcosms containing either periphyton or detritus, and changes in aperture length, shell length, and wet weight were measured after 30 days to calculate growth rates. Bulk periphyton was predicted to be the poorer quality food due to its high ash content and low protein content. But, increases in aperture length, shell length and wet weight were more than 2-fold greater for snails grown in periphyton as opposed to detrital microcosms. Significantly higher growth rates in periphyton microcosms suggests that slough habitats are the preferred environment for juvenile applesnail development. However, growth in both treatments showed that juveniles can assimilate plant detritus when periphyton availability is limited.
24320961|Aqueous etching wastes from the electronic industry contain heavy metal ions such as chromium(VI), chromium(III) and copper(II). In remediation of this waste, chromium(VI) should be reduced to chromium(III), and then removed via precipitation or extraction. This report describes results of chromium(VI) reduction using water-soluble sugars (sucrose and glucose) for remediation of aqueous etching wastes from this industry. In strong acid solutions (pH <1.0), the reaction was first-order with respect to chromium(VI) concentration in the presence of excess sugar. The evidence shows that glucose can be oxidized into carbon dioxide eventually and that sugars (and probably other materials readily available in Florida) are very efficient and economical in chromium(VI) reduction. Sugar concentration, pH, and temperature affected the rate of reduction.
24319985|Luidia clathrata is gonochoric. This is a report of a single incidence of hermaphorditismfrom more than 2000 individuals examined during the reproductive seasons of 1974-1979. The gonads are serial arborescent sac-like structures that are lined with germinal cells. Each gonad typically has four or five acini. In the hermaphroditic gonad both oocytes and sperm arose from the same area along the basal lamina. In some acini oocytes tended to dominate while in others sperm were predominant. In acini that contained large numbers of both gametes the sperm completely encircled the oocytes. There was no evidence of self fertilization. This hermaphroditic individual was part of a nutritional study. That only a single individual showed hermaphroditism indicates the tight control of sexual differentiation in this species.
24321194|Landuse in watersheds has a large impact on the quality of water and sediment in adjacent bays and estuaries. Changes in pore water nutrients and sediment composition due to anthropogenic impacts to the surrounding watershed may potentially influence the growth and biomass of rooted, estuarine vegetation. This study examined spatial patterns in growth and biomass of the seagrass Thalassia testudinum during the early spring growing season in an estuary with a highly disturbed watershed (Biscayne Bay, FL). In addition, the plants' response to nutrient addition via fertilizer spikes as a proxy to increased pore water nutrient levels was evaluated. Spatial differences in biomass occurred among the four sites with those on the western side of the bay that receive nutrient inputs from terrestrial run off having greater biomass per m2 than the two sites on the eastern side of the bay. The addition of nutrients via fertilizer spikes did not influence biomass, but the production of new plant tissue (mm2/day) as a measure of growth was increased by an average of 45% with the addition of fertilizer spikes at all sites. The results indicate that the structure (biomass) of these subtropical T. testudinum meadows in an estuary with a highly disturbed watershed did not change with short-term nutrient addition, but the function of the meadows was altered through enhanced production.
24320343|Documents describing the Indian River marine turtle fishery, which flourished in the late 1800s, are the only source of information concerning lagoonal turtle populations prior to 1978. The primary object of the fishery, which declined after 1900, was the green turtle, Chelonia mydas. The other important species in the system, the loggerhead turtle (Caretta caretta) is mentioned briefly in the early reports. Studies of these 2 species in the northern segment of the Indian River lagoon system were carried out from July 1976 to September 1981. Turtles were captured in large-mesh tangle nets and during hypothermic stunning episodes in the winters of 1977 and 1981. The presence of Eretmochelys imbricata and Lepidochelys kempi in the system is recorded for the first time. A total of 205 C. caretta and 199 C. mydas was captured, providing a basis for the characterization of the 2 populations. Loggerhead turtles of the system are about twice as large (weight x: 43.7 kg; CLSL x: 65.8 cm) as green turtles (weight x: 18.8 kg; CLSL x: 48.2 cm), but virtually all green turtles and 95 % or more of the loggerheads are immature. Indian River lagoons are "developmental habitats," in the sense of Carr et al. (1978).
24320561|Bis-(-diketones) are quadridentate ligands and have a broad spectrum of uses, including uses as biologically active compounds and liquid crystals. Compounds of the type [(RCO)2CH]2CHR' have been synthesized by an aldol condensation followed by Michael addition. This work reports the synthesis of 1,1,3,3-tetra-(2-naphthoyl)-propane by this procedure.
24321672|Previous studies on salinity tolerance of Ophiophragmus filograneus have documented its ability to acclimate to a wide range of salinities in the laboratory and to acclimatize to short-term natural reductions in salinity. In all cases, salinities below 10 were lethal within a few weeks of exposure. Recent long-term changes in hydrology have exposed a dense population of O. filograneus in the Banana River lagoon to 3 yr of salinities between 10 and 20. The burrowing response of animals subjected to acute exposure was tested in the present study at salinities of 8, 10, 12, 14 (ambient), 19, and 24. After almost 6 wk of continuous exposure, animals at 14, 19, and 24 had fully acclimated, although all animals showed signs of stress. Those at 12 still had elevated burrowing times after 6 wk. Animals at 10 survived, but many did not burrow within the allotted time (7 min) for each trial. None at 8 burrowed nor survived more than 15 d. Long-term exposure to low salinity does not extend the tolerance of O. filograneus: it has a lower lethal limit of about 8, a limit that might produce local extirpation if current approaches to lagoon management do not change.
24319695|About 13,500 living species of animals are deposit feeders. Deposit feeding is most common in coelomate animals, buta few species of small body size among the pseudocoelomates are also deposit feeders. Deposit feeding was probably the last of the basic types of feeding to arise in animals.
24319449|MacArthur and Wilson proposed a species equilibrium model of insular colonization. The applicability and generality of this model were tested using artificial fresh-water ponds as islands. All organisms large enough to be distinguished at 100 were monitored. Colonization, immigration and extinction rate curves are shown to be consistent with the model proposed by MacArthur and Wilson. Apparent non-interactive equilibrium was reached in 25 to 30 days with a turnover rate of between 3 and 5 species per day. The modifications proposed by Simberloff were also found to be consistent with the results of this study.
24319877|A survey of adults in Florida was conducted in 1981 to isolate the sources of support or nonsupport for science and technology within the general public. We report the distribution of support, the demographic correlates of support, and the level of support for specific policy issues. Generally, supporters were of higher socioeconomic status and more informed, but otherwise indistinguishable from other segments of the population. The most hostile were characterized as being "born again" Christians in terms of religious beliefs.
24321154|The black spiny-tailed iguana (Ctenosuara similis) was introduced onto Gasparilla Island in southwestern peninsular Florida ca. 30 years ago. Since then, this exotic species has undergone both natural and human-mediated range expansion, and it is presently found in Placido, Cape Haze, Gulf Cove, Cayo Costa, Keewaydin Island, and Little Marco Island. Although C. similis is primarily herbivorous, it will feed opportunistically on small animals, including insects, crabs, rodents, fishes, nestling birds, bird eggs, and hatchling sea turtles. Because of the possible ecological impacts of C. similis on Florida's native flora and fauna, population monitoring and/or eradication efforts should be conducted on C. similis.
24320632|The reproductive cycle of the Mediterranean gecko was studied from one site in south-central Florida. Egg laying took place between May and August. Sexual maturity of both sexes was possible within the first year at similar body sizes. Sex ratio of the annual sample was 1:1. Comparisons with Texas and Louisiana populations revealed great overlap in reproductive cycles despite geographic differences. The seasonally restricted reproductive cycle of this species in southern Florida may have contributed to a decline in its distribution and abundance as a result of competition with other recently established and rapidly dispersing hemidactylines that exhibit greater fecundity.
24321055|Various types of shoreline stabilization methods have been used in the Indian River Lagoon to prevent erosion caused by wave action. These include: vertical seawalls, smooth revetments, riprap revetments (all collectively referred to as hardened shorelines), and to a lesser extent, vegetated shorelines. It has been widely assumed that hardened shorelines are detrimental to the environment due to a scouring effect caused by backwash from wave action. The results of an extensive search of english-language literature indicate that (1) there is no published evidence linking hardened shorelines to a reduction in seagrass distribution or abundance, and, (2) in the conditions found in Indian River Lagoon, the theoretical scouring associated with vertical seawalls is limited to approximately 12 meters seaward from the wall for vertical seawalls, and considerably less for smooth and riprap revetments. Our field studies indicate that the presence of seagrasses adjacent to all types of shorelines, whether hardened or vegetated, is similar. The lack of seagrasses which typically occurs in the zone between 05 meters offhore must be due to some other factor or factors.
24319456|Ophiactis rubropoda, sp. nov., is distinguished by having six arms, one pair of oral papillae, 4-5 arm spines, transversely ellipsoid arm plates, disk spinelets in some specimens, and a red pigment in the water vascular system.
24321566|Bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) are well-known inhabitants of the Indian River Lagoon (IRL) estuary system. In recent years, an increase in stranded animals, concurrent with biological and anthropogenic threats have created concerns about the stability of this population. The objectives of this study were to analyze data collected from stranded IRL dolphins (19772005) to: 1) evaluate and understand stranding trends temporally and spatially, 2) examine age and sex-specific mortality patterns, and 3) evaluate trends of human-related dolphin mortalities. A total of 834 dolphins stranded in the lagoon system from 19772005. The historical average was 28.8 ( 2.48) dolphin strandings per year. We found two years with unusually high numbers of strandings, in 2000 (n = 59) and 2001 (n = 61). A total of 391 males, 292 females and 151 dolphins of undetermined sex stranded during the study. Strandings occurred more frequently in spring and summer (X2 = 70.96, df = 3, p < 0.0001). As long-lived, top level predators, IRL dolphin health may be representative of the overall health of this system. These baseline data are essential to management and conservation efforts for the IRL dolphin population and represent the most comprehensive analysis of mortality trends for IRL dolphins.
24319959|The creek chubsucker, Erimyzon oblongus, was recorded from the Escambia River drainage of Florida in 1954. This still constitutes the only record of the species from the state. Although the species was subsequently found to occur in a limited portion of the Chattahoochee River system of Alabama, there have been no other records from the Escambia or other closely adjacent eastern Gulf slope drainages of Alabama or Florida. The two specimens on which the original Escambia drainage record was based have been found, upon re-examination, to be the sharpfin chubsucker, Erimyzon tenuis. E. oblongus should thus be deleted from the Florida and Escambia drainage lists.
24320152|New specimens of Glyptotherium floridanum from the Florida peninsula confirm the conspecific identity of the Rancholabrean population of glyptodonts across the Gulf Coast and southern Atlantic coastal plain. Newly recognized osteological traits in the mandible of G. floridanum include bulbous pits in the alveoli for the teeth, and grooves on the outer surface that mark the position of hair follicles that were embedded in bone. The cervical vertebrae in the new specimens are similar to those of G. floridanum from the Texas Gulf Coast, and distinct from those of ancestral species. The caudal vertebrae and caudal armor were simple, like those of G. texanum and G. arizonae, without development of extensive fusion of the terminal caudal rings and without terminal spines at the tip of the armor.
24321148|The benthic macroinvertebrate community composition and selected water and sediments physico-chemical parameters at 15 permanent sampling stations in northeast Lake Jesup, central Florida, were studied monthly from December 1996 to December 1997. Crustacea (primarily Ostracoda) were numerically dominant (mean 3,645/m2), followed by Oligochaeta (898/m2), Gastropoda (mostly Tryonia aequicostata 898/m2), Chironomidae larvae (predominantly Glyptotendipes paripes 383/m2), Chaoboridae larvae (112/m2) and Hirudinea (107/m2). Ordination analysis (CCA and variation partitioning) showed that month of sampling and sampling station together explained 64% of benthic community variability; sampling station explained 45% and sampling month 19% of variation. Significant density differences of various taxa were noted between sampling stations, but not between months of sampling. Clustering of benthic community by using TWINSPAN revealed differences between sand and soft organic sediments. CCA indicated sediment type as the most important environmental factor. The highest biomass and species number were recorded on sand substrate, with Isopoda, Nematoda, Polypedilum spp. larvae and Glyptotendipes paripes larvae as the typical inhabitants of sand sediment, whereas Tanypodinae larvae, Chaoboridae larvae and Tryonia aequicostata were typical for soft muck sediment.
24320750|Zooplankton were monitored in Banana Lake between January, 1990 and March, 1992 to evaluate the impact of lake restoration by hydraulic dredging. Zooplankters were collected on a monthly basis at eight stations using an 8.1 L Kemmerer water sampler. The samples were concentrated by straining the samples through a #20 nylon bolting cloth Zooplankton net. Microscopic enumeration was employed to determine abundance of rotifers and microcrustaceans. Dredging was conducted within Banana Lake between August, 1990 and August, 1991. During and after dredging, all species of zooplankters had decreasing trends except for Asplanchna sp., a predatory rotifer. Most species started to decline in January, 1991 and by October, 1991 all of the cladocerans and copepods had disappeared. Recovery had begun by March, 1992.
24321945|Despite the significant value of the southeastern United States' red drum (Sciaenops ocellatus) fishery, there is a lack of clinical blood chemistry data. This was the first study to assess plasma glucose values as an indicator of stress response to evaluate variation and the effect of reproductive activity for wild adult red drum in Florida. Red drum (n=126) were collected from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Kennedy Space Center waters during three reproductive periods in 2011. Samples were obtained from the branchial vessels of the gill arch. Plasma glucose levels were significantly different among reproductive periods, with the highest mean values recorded during the spawning period, September-October (38.23 mg / dL  10.0). The glucose range was 1769 mg / dL. Glucose values were lower during all three periods than previous values recorded for cultured or captive red drum studies. This may indicate that fish from this population were under less stress than other populations previously sampled.
24320580|The reproductive cycle of the Indo-Pacific gecko, Hemidactylus garnotii, was studied in southern Florida from June 1991 to January 1993. Lizards were sexually mature at 49 mm SVL. Egglaying took place every month of the year and at least three clutches were produced annually. Year round reproduction may be added to the list of reproductive traits which make H. garnotii the most fecund and widespread species of the hemidactyline geckoes currently found in southern Florida.
24321039|Four species of Hemidactylus geckos have been introduced into Florida. Presently, only the Indo-Pacific (H. garnotii) and Mediterranean (H. turcicus) geckos occur in northern peninsular Florida; however, their distributions and ecological status are poorly known. We combined records from the literature, systematic collections, and field surveys to summarize the distributions of H. garnotii and H. turcicus in northern peninsular Florida. Herein, we document 16 previously unreported county records and one significant distributional record for these two species.
24319437|Reproductive cycles of the shrew, Blarina brevicauda, and three rodents, Peromyseus gossypinus, Ochrotomys nuttalli and Sigmodon hispidus, were examined from lands of the ERDA Savannah River Plant near Aiken, South Carolina. The information was collected from 1955 to 1973 and all species demonstrated bimodal reproductive cycles with peaks of activity in the spring and fall. Sigmodon hispidus and P. gossypinus had an equal intensity of effort during both seasons while B. brevicauda had a greater spring effort and O. nuttalli a greater fall effort.
24321394|Recreational tournaments for swordfish (Xiphias gladius) existed in the Florida Straits between 1977 and 1983 before disappearing due to low catch rates and an overexploitation of the stock. The first recent swordfish tournament occurred in 2001 off southeast Florida with 13 participating vessels. In 2002, three swordfish tournaments were observed and anglers were interviewed to determine catch and gear characteristics of the re-established recreational fishery. A total of 156 vessels participated in these three tournaments, catching 112 swordfish and hooking an additional 48 animals. The combination of the recovery of the North Atlantic swordfish stock and the continuation of the 2001 closure of the Florida Straits to commercial pelagic longline fishing gear is expected to result in the continued expansion of the southeast Florida recreational swordfish fishery.
24319550|A median lip projection was found on 2 Carpiodes cyprinus from the Apalachicola River, Florida.
24320256|Due to its phyletic position among the selachians, its relative abundance in Florida coastal waters, and its unusual adaptability to laboratory conditions, the juvenile lemon shark is an excellent model for studies of the sensory biology of the "typical" shark. Our investigations of the physiological optics of this shark's eye have resulted in a mathematical model, or schematic eye, for the species. This optical model is centered around an ellipsoidal lens of high overall equivalent refractive index (1.664) and principal power (140 diopters), and yet all data indicate these animals to be hypermetropic (far-sighted) by about 3 diopters underwater, with no evidence of accommodation. Using the schematic eye, optical limitations on spatial vision of this shark are predictable. In addition to discussing the optics, we briefly review recent findings on the anatomical and functional organization of the retina, as well as psychophysical measurements of absolute visual threshold, in the juvenile lemon shark.
24319687|Infrared absorption spectra were run on humic substances from Lake Apopka sediment samples and compared with spectra from citrus and muck farm humic substances from sediment in the surrounding drainage basin, and also with spectra from autochthonous plankton humic substances. The 1540 cm-1 and 1650 cm-1 peaks in the plankton and lake sediment samples, in addition to other spectra similarities, indicate that plankton is the probable precursor of lake sediment humic substances. The absorption bands at 1650 cm-1 and 1540 cm-1 are thought to be due to peptide bonds in protein, with amide I absorption occuring at 1650 cm-1 and amide II absorption at 1540 cm-1. The spectra from the muck farm soil and citrus soil differ to a greater extent from the spectrum of the lake sediment than do the plankton spectra.
24321480|During the summer of 2002, we studied the benthic omnivore turtle guild inhabiting freshwater canals in central Broward County, Florida. Sampling with baited hoop traps, we captured 52 Chelydra serpentina, 34 Kinosternon baurii, and 4 Sternotherus odoratus in 576 trap nights. Throughout the canal system, C. serpentina was the dominant species in shallow (<1 m maximum depth) areas, while K. baurii dominated the deeper (>1 m) areas. Secondary sex ratios were 1:1 for all three species, but population size structure data indicate that impaired recruitment may threaten the long-term persistence of both C. serpentina and K. baurii.
24321238|Chemical analyses of green vs. decayed (fully-necrotic) leaf tissues of Thalassia testudinum revealed significant differences in mean ( 1 S.D.) percent dry weight/wet weight, 12.1  6.9% (green) vs. 23.1  16.6% (decayed), and in mean molar C:N ratio, 19.0  4.2 (green) vs. 39.2  8.8 (decayed). Conversely, there was an insignificant difference in mean in mean soluble protein, 8.2  1.1 mg/ml (green) vs. 6.8  5.0 mg/ml (decayed). In an amino acid derivatization analysis using HPLC, we detected 12 amino acids; valine and serine were detected in decayed leaves but not in green leaves, while proline and methionine were detected in green leaves but not in decayed leaves.
24319473|Hydrilla (Hydrilla verticillata Royle) was cultured in modified Hoagland's nutrient solutions having various concentrations of mineral elements. Maximum increase in dry wt occurred at 10% of basic Hoagland's concentrations of all elements with added sodium bicarbonate. Tissue contents of P and Ca were directly related to solution levels of these mineral elements; K accumulation appeared independent of solution concentration. Addition of NaHCO3 reduced P accumulation, but had no effect on Ca or K accumulation. Hydrilla appeared to utilize bicarbonate as a carbon source for photosynthesis.
24321009|Vehicle-related mortality (roadkill) of vertebrate wildlife was recorded during a 24-mo. survey along 48-km (30-mi.) of paved highway that traveled through urbanized, agricultural, and native landscapes in southwest Florida. We recorded 1,035 vertebrate roadkills, with mammals accounting for the greatest percentage (54%) of total roadkill and raccoons (Procyon Iotor) and other medium-sized mammals being the most frequently recorded species. Roadkill of herptiles (15%), which primarily were snakes, and unidentified species (20%) were recorded at similar rates and birds (11%) had the fewest roadkills. Roadkill did not vary due to differences in traffic speed and volume, but did vary by land use with lowest roadkill recorded in urbanized areas and all rural land use categories having similar levels of roadkill. Roadkill varied by season for herptiles and unidentified species and corresponded to Florida's annual cycle of wet and dry seasons and the availability of standing water in roadside ditches and pasture wetlands. Landscape features associated with human-made structures at two locations along the route had significantly greater roadkill than expected. These included an area adjacent to a wildlife exclusion fence, where roadkill of herptiles and unidentified species was elevated, but the reasons for higher roadkill at this location were not clear. The greatest number of total roadkills, primarily mammals, was recorded in association with a canal crossing and included 12% of all mammal roadkills recorded during this study.
24321041|Fecal specimens from 50 patients in the Province of Chalatenango, El Salvador were examined for parasites using zinc sulfate flotation of fresh feces and by direct smears of feces collected in Parasafe, Proto-Fix or Unifix fixatives following trichrome or acid-fast staining. The overall prevalence of parasitic infections in the patients was 64% (32/50). Two parasites, Entamoeba histolytica/dispar and Ascaris lumbricoides were found in large numbers, 20% (10/50) and 36% (18/50), respectively, and were used for the comparative studies. Trichrome staining of direct smears was most effective in identifying E. histolytica/dispar in specimens of all three fixatives and acid-fast staining did not reveal any amoeba. Ascaris lumbricoides eggs were consistently found using all three fixatives and with both staining methods. Zinc sulfate flotation of fresh feces was most effective for identification of A. lumbricoides eggs and trichrome staining of feces collected in Parasafe, Proto-fix or Unifix fixatives for the detection of E. histolytica/dispar.
24319611|Fifteen species of late Pleistocene and Recent mammals were recovered from St. Marks River localities. The western-most record in Florida for the extinct bog lemming, Synaptomys australis, is the only extinct species at a St. Marks locality otherwise yielding only Recent species.
24321110|The seasonal abundance of adult Diachlorus ferrugatus (F.) in Monroe County, Florida, was determined by collections in carbon dioxide-baited light traps. This species is most abundant from late May until early June, but may be encountered from mid-March until late August.
24320487|Litter biomass from biweekly basket collections was measured for seventeen months in two low hammocks in St. Lucie and Indian River Counties. A disturbed roadside habitat with both Quercus virginiana (live oak) and the exotic Grevillea robusta (silk oak) produced significantly more litter and exhibited higher variance among baskets and collection dates than an undisturbed hammock containing only Q. virginiana. Peak litterfall occurred in February at the disturbed site and more than one month later at the protected site 12 km distant. Differences between sites are probably attributable to differing species compositions and the relative importance of disturbance. Peak flowerfall lagged leaf fall by ca 1.5 months at each site.
24319984|Sea urchins (Lytechinus varigatus and Tripneustes ventricosus) were collected from a shallow, subtidal seagrass community in Biscayne Bay during Summer 1986. The population density of urchins within patches of seagrass was first estimated with quadrat sampling (mean = 0.54 urchins/m2). The statistical dispersion of urchins among quadrats was random. Density later was assessed by mark-recapture (nail polish was painted onto urchin spines). The Petersen estimate of density (0.47 urchins/m2) appeared to be in close agreement with the quadrat estimate, though the estimates were not statistically comparable.
24321993|The historic Everglades were defined by ridges, sloughs, tree islands, and flowing water. During the early to middle 20th Century, anthropogenic changes due to agricultural development and urbanization led to the creation of water conservation areas, disrupting the natural flow patterns. Restoration of the Everglades includes returning historic flows to portions of the remaining natural system, but there are no records of water velocities prior to man's influence. Constructed in 2003, the Loxahatchee Impoundment Landscape Assessment (LILA) was designed to provide a research platform for scientists to investigate the role of flow in the Everglades. This study had a dual purpose: to investigate and characterize flow patterns across a physical model of the Everglades at differing flow rates: to examine the capacity of the infrastructure of this physical model to generate specific flows across the landscape. It has been demonstrated that an overall flow of 5 cfs presents an optimal flow rate. An upstream flow rate of 8 cfs in LILA produced unpredicted flow patterns downstream that have relevance for Everglades flow restoration. At these high flow rates, shallow areas were short circuited, and the overall flow was unevenly distributed.
24319567|Reproductive data for 15 species of snakes in Florida are presented. The reproductive seasons of Coluber constrictor, Diadophis punctatus, Natrix fasciata, Thamnophis sauritus, and T. sirtalis are extended and may allow production of more than one annual clutch. The second known captive hatching of Florida Pituophis melanolencus is reported.
24319665|The absence of endemic Louisiana fishes may be attributed to historical and physiographic factors. The periodic inundation of the Mississippi Embayment by the Gulf of Mexico during early Pleistocene interglacial periods obliterated the freshwater ichthyofauna. Afterwards, the ample dispersal mechanisms available prevented isolation and subsequent speciation of fishes in Louisiana.
24322136|Amphibians have been shown to be important indicators for environmental change, particularly changes in water quality. The Southwest Florida Amphibian Monitoring Network was established in 2000 to collect long-term data on frog communities in southwest Florida. Twenty-two routes of 12 stops each are monitored monthly during the rainy season. Wind, temperature, humidity, sky condition, and habitat changes are recorded at each stop. Frog presence and abundance is indicated by calling intensity, which is tabulated using a three-level intensity code. Using data from the Network, frog communities were summarized, and factors that may explain differences in frog communities among sites and over time were investigated using measures of biological diversity, community classification, and community ordination. The data show an increased calling intensity in the exotic Cuban treefrog (Osteopilus septentrionalis), and a shift to native frog species requiring more permanent water. Continued monitoring may aid in understanding implications of altered hydroperiods and amphibian responses to restoration efforts. This type of citizen scientist database provides opportunities to investigate trends in environmental change on a landscape scale.
24319610|Water, sediment, and sand from recreational and other areas in the southern Biscayne Bay region were examined over a three month period (Sept.-Nov.) for the presence of both "indicator" and potentially pathogenic bacteria and yeasts. The Miami River was the most significant source of pollution (>105 total coliforms 100/ml); however, bathing beaches showed low densities of all microorganisms sought.
24320744|The phenology of pineywoods dropseed (Sporobolus junceus) after late winter and spring fires was evaluated. No significant relationship was found between basal area of pineywoods dropseed plants and the number of inflorescences produced per plant following the February fire; a significant but weak relationship was found in the plants following the May fire. Average basal diameter of plants at the February burn site (116.43 cm2) was significantly smaller than at the May burn site (185.91 cm2), possibly due to previous prescribed burns at the latter site. Following the May burn, pineywoods dropseed plants produced inflorescences and mature seed within seven to nine weeks of the fire.
24320489|Amphipods are often the most abundant macroinvertebrate associated with the exotic macrophyte waterhyacinth [Eichhornia crassipes (Mart.) Solms]. To determine the contribution of Hyalella azteca and Gammarus tigrinus to waterhyacinth decay, bags (202 um mesh) containing root or leaf litter were stocked at three densities (0, 5, and 15 per bag) and placed under waterhyacinth mats. Amphipods significantly increased (P<0.05) the rate of root and leaf decay. Decomposition rates (k values) ranged from 0.028 d-1 to 0.039 d-1 for leaf and from 0.008 d-1 to 0.011 d-1 for root detritus. Consumption was estimated at 0.081 mg dry leaf litter per mg dry amphipod on a daily basis. In addition to physical and chemical factors, the presence or absence of shredding amphipods may substantially influence the rate of waterhyacinth breakdown.
24321914|This paper documents the plant assemblage found in large constructed treatment wetlands built for Everglades restoration, the Stormwater Treatment Areas (STAs) in south Florida. Eighty vascular and macroalgae plant species were identified at marsh sites across all the STAs, while an additional 43 species were unique to the marsh-levee ecotone in STA-1W. The STA flora was dominated by herbaceous taxa (83% of species) whose wetland status was primarily obligate, facultative wetland or facultative (collectively 77% of species). Twenty-seven percent of species were introduced non-natives. Six species were common (present in 10% or more of samples) across all the STAs: Chara sp., Hydrilla verticillata, Lemna sp., Najas guadalupensis, Sagittaria lancifolia and Typha domingensis. Only one species, T. domingensis, was common in samples from each STA. Species richness in the STAs was significantly correlated with sampling effort but not with median water depth or wetland age, although there was a weak positive trend with age. A non-parametric estimator of species richness, the Chao 2 metric, predicted a lower bound of 89 species at marsh sites. Treatment cells dominated by submersed aquatic vegetation (SAV) pooled across all the STAs were slightly more species rich than cells dominated by emergent aquatic vegetation (EAV) (64 vs. 57 species, respectively), but there was no consistent pattern in species richness between EAV and SAV cells within individual STAs.
24319620|Sight and photographic records are reported for 11 species which were rare or previously unknown for the island.
24320320|A rich ravine woods, inhabited by many unique plants including Torreya taxifolia was cleared 27 yr ago. A recent survey has revealed that the system's major features remain, including a living Torreya.
24321905|Monitoring of benthic invertebrate communities in aquatic ecosystems has been used to evaluate a variety of environmental effects, including changes in hydrology. As part of a hydroecological assessment of the St. Johns River, FL, we studied invertebrate communities of shoreline and floodplain marsh habitats at locations in the middle and upper St. Johns River. A total of 112 invertebrate taxa were identified. Most were aquatic insects in the orders Odonata, Hemiptera, Coleoptera and Diptera. We examined a variety of metrics of invertebrate community structure and a surrogate measure of ecosystem function. Some of these metrics displayed patterns that could be related to hydrology. Preliminary sampling in floodplain marsh habitats with varying duration of inundation suggested some hydroecological patterns; relative abundance of taxa indicative of more permanent aquatic habitats (Ephemeroptera and Amphipoda) had a positive relationship with duration of inundation. Taxa able to undergo diapause during dry periods (Oligochaeta), those able to disperse to new habitats (Diptera, Coleoptera), and those with short life cycles adapted to temporary habitats (Diptera) had negative relationships between relative abundance and duration of inundation. We propose three new metrics that may be useful for future monitoring.
24320475|Studies were conducted from April to September, 1988, on the feeding ecology, dietary overlap, diel patterns of activity and temperature relationships of sympatric populations of the eastern spadefoot toad (Scaphiopus holbrooki) and the southern toad (Bufo terrestris) from Hillsborough Co., FL. A high degree of dietary overlap was found. Insects such as Coleoptera (19-31%) and Formicidae (12-18%), as well as spiders (8-11%), comprised a significant proportion (39-60%) of the diet by volume during spring and summer months. Termites comprised 7-1% of the diet during the spring. No significant overall dietary differences were found between sexes or seasons. Both species were active at body temperatures ranging from 23.5 to 24.4C. Bufo terrestris was not observed at the surface before 2000 hr. The peak period of ground surface activity was 2100-0100 h for S. holbrooki and 2200-0300 h for B. terrestris.
24320261|Twenty major groups of extinct animals with a good fossil record had some of the following characteristics. There is an uncommonly high percentage of suspension feeders and colonial animals. Most of the colonial animals were probably suspension feeders. Seventeen of these groups of animals were confined to a marine habitat and all were aquatic. None had a skeleton composed of silica. The skeletal material in these animals was calcareous, phosphatic, or chitinous, or some combination of these materials.
24320610|This work explores surface interactions between gypsum and selected prominent gaseous emissions in to the atmosphere. Gypsum is a common air-borne mineral particulate that has a potential two-fold relationship to the air pollution problem: as a particulate pollutant and as a catalyst or adsorbent for pollutant gases. The Florida atmosphere represents a situation where sources of gypsum particulates are especially abundant from both natural sources and anthropogenic activities. This work explored the adsorption of eight gases (nitric oxide, nitrous oxide, ammonia, hydrogen sulfide, carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, oxygen, and propane) at 24C as representative of gases present in the atmosphere. Propane, hydrogen sulfide, and oxygen were not adsorbed at pressures less than one atmosphere. Coverages were related to a monolayer based upon a surface area of 17.0 m2/gm as determined from a nitrogen adsorption isotherm and the B.E.T. method. Multilayer coverages were observed for ammonia, nitric oxide, carbon dioxide, and sulfur dioxide. Both reversible and irreversible adsorption were observed. Irreversible coverages of 0.52, 0.37, 0.41, and 0.33 monolayer were observed for SO2, CO2, NO, and NH3, respectively. Nitrous oxide and carbon monoxide did not have an irreversible component to their adsorption.
24321594|Identifying adult frog species in the field generally is straightforward; however, differentiating among tadpoles may be less clear and may complicate conservation and management activities. We described both the qualitative and quantitative morphological differences of tadpoles of a rare endemic species, Florida Bog Frog (Rana okaloosae), and a more common heterospecific, Bronze Frog (Rana clamitans clamitans). Rana okaloosae tadpoles had more pronounced tail spotting, greater pigmentation on the tail, and more defined ventral spotting than R. c. clamitans. The mean proportional tail height of fresh specimens and preserved specimens of R. c. clamitans was greater than R. okaloosae (fresh: P = 0.043, t = -2.10, n = 20/species; preserved: P = 0.026, t = -2.43, n = 10/species). The mean proportional length of the P3 tooth row was greater in R. c. clamitans than in R. okaloosae (P < 0.0001, t = 9.58, n = 10 and 5, respectively). In the field, qualitative assessment of tail coloration and ventral spotting patterns appear useful in identifying tadpoles of these species. Additionally, the differences in the length of the P3 tooth rows may help to positively identify the two species of tadpoles, but will only be feasible for anaesthetized or preserved specimens.
24320058|Stomach analyses were performed on 53 white marlin, Tetrapturus albidus; 11 sailfish, Istiophorus platypterus; and 5 blue marlin, Makaira nigricans captured in the Gulf of Mexico, 30-100 km S of Pensacola, Florida from May to October, 1974. Stomach content analyses were conducted using frequency of occurrence, numerical, and gravimetric (wet wt) methods. Stomachs of white marlin and sailfish most frequently contained Euthynnus sp., Auxis sp., squid, and Atlantic moonfish, Vomer setapinnis. White marli were also reported for the first time feeding on barracuda and puffers. Thunnus sp., Euthynnus sp., and Auxis sp. were most common food items of blue marlin, however, cephalopods may be of some importance in their diet.
24321812|This literature review relates to the ecological roles of native crayfish, Procambarus alleni (Everglades crayfish) and P. fallax (slough crayfish) in Everglades food webs. In freshwater wetlands, these keystone species influence community structure, alter landscape, and as herbivores and detritivores, enhance microbial decomposition and nutrient cycling. Crayfish are consumed by more than 40 species of vertebrate predators, and often are predators themselves. Hydrological and seasonal conditions affect crayfish abundance and distribution, and ecological roles. Researchers have relied on studies of crayfish from lakes and streams, with little focus on wetlands and on species-specific predator-prey roles and life histories of native crayfish. Presented here is a conceptual model of native crayfish relationships in Everglades food webs, and lists of possible prey and predators of these two species. Trophic roles of these crayfish may differ. The more aggressive P. alleni could be to top aquatic predators during times of low water levels and the initial return of the rainy season, while the less aggressive P. fallax may also function as top aquatic predators under other hydrological conditions. Future studies, including isotopic analyses, are needed to better understand the roles of both species in Everglades food webs.
24321983|Central Florida's Volusia Blue Spring is a hypoxic freshwater spring containing a large population of the non-indigenous air-breathing loricariid Pterygoplichthys disjunctivus. Our primary objectives were to describe the respiratory anatomy and air-breathing behavior of P. disjunctivus. We found that P. disjunctivus has gill filaments partially covered by fleshy gill rakers, and a large gastric air-breathing organ encased by an inelastic fibrous sheath, similar to that described in several other loricariids. We had hypothesized that P. disjunctivus would surface for air more frequently at the anoxic headspring (dissolved oxygen (DO) = 0.10 mg/L) than 360 meters downstream, where the DO is five times higher, however, this was not supported by our data. Because many air-breathing fish exhibit group surfacing behaviors to avoid predation, we had also hypothesized that P. disjunctivus would display temporal aggregation during air-breathing activity, and this hypothesis was supported. Our field results, along with laboratory observations of captive P. disjunctivus relying exclusively on oxygenated water, suggest that this species is a facultative air-breather with a DO threshold higher than that found in the Blue Spring run.
24321227|The alligator snapping turtle, Macroclemys temminckii, is capable of detecting and responding to the presence of chemosensory cues from two naturallyoccurring prey species, the Mississippi mud turtle, Kinosternon subrubrum, and the common musk turtle, S. odoratus. Preference tests were conducted in an experimental chamber in which juveniles of M. temminckii were exposed to dechlorinated water in one-half of the chamber and an odor plume from water that had been occupied by either S. odoratus or K. subrubrum. Juveniles of M. temminckii spent significantly more time in water containing prey odor cues and also exhibited more rapid movements and more frequent episodes of gular pumping, as compared to those exhibited by turtles in untreated water. The ability to utilize odor cues is discussed with respect to detection of prey and patch residence time.
24320751|In this paper we report a case of predation by squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus) on a solitary-roosting evening bat (Nycticeius sp., Veristomillidae). The monkeys, translocated to South Florida from South America, now inhabit a 35 acre home range on which they have been established for decades. The monkeys were successful in obtaining bat prey despite the presence of potential competitors for that prey, e.g., raccoons. Predation upon bats is very rare among nonhuman primates. This report is the only confirmed instance of bat predation by nonhuman primates living in Florida, and the only report for this species. Only squirrel monkeys of the closely related S. oerstedii species have been reported to be regular predators on bats in Costa Rica. The monkeys we observed have successfully adapted their foraging behavior to this unique South Florida habitat despite their having originated elsewhere in the Neotropics.
24319747|The morphological development of 27 prenatal Key deer (Odocoileus virginianus clavium) was described in 10 stages encompassing the late embryo and late fetus. Ages were estimated by interpolations involving length or the cube root of weight and assigned ages of youngest and oldest specimens. The chronological emergence of 37 characteristics was evaluated within Odocoileus. Although broad generic similarity was found, 3 discrepancies of 16-32 da were noted between the northern white-tailed deer (O. v. borealis) and the Rocky Mountain mule deer (O. hemionus hemionus). Comparisons involving O. v. clavium revealed inter- and intraspecific discrepancies greater than likely aging error. Based on the relative distribution of these differences, the chronology for O. v. clavium seemed no more similar to that of O. v. borealis than to that of O. h. hemionus. Also, 4 of the characteristics that reportedly developed at similar times in O. v. borealis were not synchronous in O. v. clavium. A rank order analysis indicated that the relative development of selected integumentary traits was less variable in Key deer than has been reported for the Columbian blacktail (O. h. columbianus).
24319846|Our method for fixation of the chick's inner ear involves puncturing the soft temporal bone with a needle and directly flushing the membranous labyrinth with cold glutaraldehyde. The temporal bone is trimmed and immersed in the same cold, aerated fixative. This improved method eliminates the need to perfuse through the oval window and preserves better than vascular perfusion. The method is easy to perform and with practice can be completed in 45-60 sec.
24319576|Sphaerodactylus cinereus Wagler is shown to be the name for the Hispaniolan lizard currently called S. stejnegeri Cochran. The proper name for the former is S. elegans MacLeay. S. cinereus (sensu nobis) has 2 subspecies: S. c. cinereus which occupies the Cul de Sac plain in Haiti, and S. c. stejnegeri which occurs in northern Haiti from Gonaves east to St. Michel de l'Atalaye, and south along the Golfe de la Gonve as far as Pont Sond and St. Marc. No intergrades are known. An isolated population at Plaine Thoman on the northern slopes of the Massif de la Selle remains unnamed.
24321122|The late Pleistocene (Rancholabrean) fossil record of harvest mice in Florida consists of two species, Reithrodontomys humulis and Reithrodontomys fulvescens. The only extant species in the state is R. humulis, which occurs at four Rancholabrean localities. Today, R. fulvescens occurs only as far east as Mississippi, but is represented by a single mandible from Vero, Indian River County, Florida. This specimen was previously identified as R. humulis and later as Peromyscus polionotus, but dental and osteological characters permit confident allocation to R. fulvescens. This is the first synoptic description of fossil harvest mice from the Rancholabrean of Florida.
24320651|Larval growth of the flatwoods salamander, Amby stoma cingulatum, is describedfor two populations on the Gulf Coastal Plain of Florida. Hatchling larvae measured 7.5-11.5 mm snout-vent length (SVL). Estimates of growth and length of larval period varied from 1.69 to 2.54 mm/week and 11 to 18 weeks depending on site and cohort. Size at metamorphosis was similar between animals held in the lab (mean = 39 mm SVL) and animals observed in the field (mean = 42 mm SVL). The metamorphic process required approximately 10 days in the lab and involved a sequential series of changes in morphology and pigmentation.
24320652|Platinum compounds are of interest because of their antitumor activity. The best known example is "Cisplatin", cis-diamminedichloroplatinum(II) (cis-Pt(NH3)2Cl2), which is effective against a variety of human tumors. More recent studies have shown that nitric oxide produced by macrophages in the body can kill or stop the proliferation of tumor cells. This work explores the synthesis of Pt(TV) complexes by action of nitrogen dioxide gas, NO2, on aqueous monoethylenediamine Pt(II) solutions, or by action of nitric oxide gas, NO, on solutions of the complex in 2 M HNO3. In these systems, rapid oxidation ofplatinum(II) occurs which produces a blue intermediate, presumably a platinum(TV) nitrosyl complex, Pt-NO. These species undergo further oxidation in air at slower rates, which are a function of counter ions to produce pale yellow solutions from which the Pt(IV) nitro complexes, [Pt(en)(NO2)(Cl)3], and possibly [Pt(en)(NO2)3Cl], and the complexes or mixtures of [Pt(en)(NO2)(ONO)2(Cl)], [Pt(en)(NO2)3(ONO)2], and [Pt(en)(NO2)(ONO)3] were obtained. Physical measurements on [Pt(en)(NO2)(ONO)2Cl] and [Pt(en)(NO2)(ONO)3] complexes suggest that in vivo reduction may occur to give "Cisplatin " type drugs and NO for inhibiting or immobilizing cancer tumor cells.
24319848|The Midas cichlid, Cichlasoma citrinellum, is a polychromatic fish native to Nicaragua and Costa Rica whose color morphs range from cryptic gray to bright orange. In 1981 an established population of the Midas cichlid was discovered in a south Florida canal that contains 6 other species of established exotic fishes. Preliminary food habit studies indicate Midas cichlids in Florida feed on molluscs and other benthic material. A mean lower lethal temperature of 13 C was determined experimentally indicating range expansion in Florida may be limited to the area south of Tampa (approximately latitude 28N). This species brings the total number of established exotic fishes in Florida to 16, of which 11 belong to the family Cichlidae.
24320646|On 25 January 1994, a basking shark, Cetorbinus maximus, estimated to be 4.5 m TL (Total Length) was observed actively feeding along a distinct ocean surface front, which was oriented north to south in the offshore waters near Cape Canaveral, Florida. Satellite observations and surface oceanographic measurements made in the area revealed an acute sea surface temperature and clarity difference across the front. Additionally, seaweed (Sargassum sp.) and anthropogenic debris had collected along the interface between the two apparent water masses, making the zone visible for several kilometers. The shark was feeding at the surface along the warmer and more clear eastern side of the frontal boundary. This observation, coupled with past records, lends further support to the hypothesis that fronts may serve as important foraging areas for basking sharks.
24312041|Except for the very largest species of calcareous benthonic Foraminiferida (10 mm or larger), there appears to be only a slight trend toward a higher percentage of large-sized species in warm water. The agglutinated Foraminiferida have a slight trend toward larger size in cold water, and all of the largest species (20 to 40 mm) live in water that is less than 5 C.
24320546|Clutch viability of American alligators was evaluated on lakes Apopka, Griffin, Jessup, and Okeechobee, Florida, during 1983-86 to examine its association with alligator population trends. Clutch viability was lower (P < 0.05) on Lake Apopka and higher (P < 0.05) on Lake Griffin than on any other lake. Annual clutch viability rates declined (P < 0.05) on Lake Apopka during the study, but no trends in viability rate were detected on other lakes. Juvenile alligator density was relatively stable during 1980-87 on lakes Griffin and Jessup, but plunged to 10% of the 1980 level on Lake Apopka (P = 0.002), coincident with falling clutch viability. Viability rates were not related to clutch size but did increase with clutch weight (P = 0.013). Egg banding rates declined on lakes Apopka and Jessup and increased on lakes Griffin and Okeechobee. Unexplained mortality of large alligators was commonly observed on Lake Apopka. We discuss several possible causes of low clutch viability including pesticide contamination, shifts in the age structure of the breeding population, and density-related stress of the adult population, and we recommend a course for further investigation.
24319946|Monthly phytoplankton and zooplankton sampling at 12 stations in the upper and middle St. Johns River between October, 1983 and May, 1984 provided data for comparison with historical taxonomic data. Although zooplankton communities varied in composition throughout the river, the phytoplankton data revealed several trends. Centrate diatoms and single celled green algae, primarily Chlorella and Chlorococcum, were common in the upper river, which was characterized by low chlorophyll a. The blue greens Anacystis, Anabaena and Lyngbya were dominant in the more eutrophic middle section of the river, however. Periodic bloom conditions of blue green algae have been noted previously in the upper river lakes, and blooms also occurred during this study. These blooms may be related to high nutrient loading from agricultural pumping activities.
24319570|Blue crabs (Callinectes sapidus) fed on the scyphomedusae Cyanea capillata and Stomolophus meleagris.
24321903|Despite well established relationships between urban stormwater runoff and water quality degradation, few studies have examined disturbed landscape soil hydrology under varying conditions. Confounding variables in landscapes may be responsible for the lack of available data. Eighteen runoff boxes were backfilled with three soils representative of those observed in newly constructed urban landscapes in Central Florida to examine the influence of soil physical properties, antecedent soil moisture, and precipitation rate on stormwater runoff and leachate. At lowest antecedent soil moisture (40% plant available water) or lowest precipitation rate (2.5 centimeters per hour [cm hr-1]) tested, runoff and leachate volumes were negligible. However, significant runoff and leachate was observed at higher antecedent soil moisture levels (70% and 90% plant available water) and precipitation rates (5.1 and 7.6 cm hr-1). Soil infiltration rates among soils were greater than assessed precipitation intensities, yet significant runoff was recorded. This suggests infiltration measurements may not be a reliable indicator of stormwater runoff potential. Rather, stormwater runoff should be estimated through development and use of empirically derived models.
24320340|Three sites in the Indian River, Florida were studied to determine primary production in seagrass meadows. Production rates were obtained for 3 species of seagrasses (Thalassia testudinum, Syringodium filiforme and Halodule wrightii), associated epiphytic flora, benthic microalgae and phytoplankton. Photosynthetic rates for Indian River seagrasses in March and July ranged between 0.009-0.395 mg C/g dry wt-h for H. wrightii, 0.005-0.79 for T. testudinum, and 0.009-1.72 for S. filiforme. Epiphytic productivity per g dry wt varied considerably between stations and from season to season. Productivity maxima for H. wrightii and S. filiforme occurred at the Jim Island station; Thalassia testudinum demonstrated maximum photosynthetic response at Link Port. Phytoplankton, benthic microalgae and epiphytic production were similar at each station and increased slightly from March to July. However, their absolute importance in community productivity changed dramatically depending upon the contribution of the seagrass species.
24321582|A long-term investigation of the group characteristics and social affiliation patterns of Atlantic coast bottlenose dolphins was carried out in the Indian River Lagoon (IRL), Florida. Group characteristics and photo-identification data were collected during 477 boat-based surveys conducted in the IRL from 1996 to 2004. A total of 2,132 groups were encountered and photographed over the study period. Group size averaged 4.1 (SD = 3.43) and did not vary by season, but was higher during some yearly periods, and for sightings in the afternoon than in the morning. Further, groups with at least one calf (x = 5.5, SD = 3.80) were larger than groups without calves (x = 2.4, SD = 1.85). Overall, half-weight Coefficients of Association (COA) indices for these frequently sighted dolphins ranged from 0.09 to 0.83 (maximum values), showed that they preferentially associate and that associations were higher within sex class than between sex class. In the aggregate, IRL group characteristics mirrored those found in other southeastern U.S. bays and estuaries and suggest that similar behavioral processes are important across these different locations. These processes include: resource and habitat optimizing while foraging and forming affiliations, and developing a balance between the demands of foraging, predator defense and maternal care.
24321896|The impact of nitric acid (HNO3) and ozone (O3) on the bulk degradation of several graphitic structures including single walled nanotubes, multiwalled nanotubes (MWNT), graphite dust, and exfoliated graphite is measured quantitatively. While these oxidizing agents are accepted approaches to open the end caps of nanotubes, both compounds significantly degrade the graphitic compounds as measured by mass loss. FT-Raman spectroscopy is used to measure the impact on the different carbonaceous structures.
24320653|Measurements of chemical properties of spring water from an active tufa-forming site in Illinois, and an analysis of published data from four tufa sites in England have identified properties of water that involve tufa formation. These properties include a pH less than 8.34, a partial pressure of dissolved CO2 hyperbaric with respect to its normal atmospheric partial pressure, and supersaturation with respect to calcite. We suggest tufa formation is also aided by filamentous algae which provide crystal nucleation sites and a holding mass for water to accommodate CO2 diffusion and the slow kinetics of calcite formation.
24319945|This study addresses the effects of a childbirth preparation program which includes education concerning the cultural influences that shape birthing experiences and the use of biofeedback-assisted relaxation techniques to facilitate labor and delivery. Methodology included utilizing hospital medical records to determine time in labor and use of medications, a post-delivery questionnaire and recorded interview, and participant observation of a number of the subjects during their labor and delivery (N = 8). The subject's time in labor was reduced (31 percent for first time mothers; 51 percent for those with prior birth experience), medications required were minimal and responses to the post-delivery interviews indicated successful incorporation of culturally specific information to individual needs. The childbirth preparation program which addresses both the influences of cultural patterns on childbirth behavior and the effectiveness of deep relaxation on the labor process appears to improve both quantitative and qualitative childbirth outcome measures.
24319749|Terrestrial movements of Procambarus alleni leaving and entering a seasonal forest pond in NW Hillsborough Co., Florida were monitored daily for 14 mo. Terrestrial activity occurred almost exclusively during the rainy season from June to October, with large numbers of individuals moving overland during or shortly after periods of heavy rainfall. Migration to and from nearby swamps, river, and terrestrial burrows may explain the overland movements.
24319908|A range extension is reported (from the Panhandle to southern Florida) for the purple moonflower (Ipomoea turbinata). The species, originally perhaps from Mexico, has been established elsewhere in the southeastern U.S.A. for some years.
24320289|Biweekly rainfall was measured from an 87-station rainfall monitoring network located in Shark River Slough for 22 mo beginning in December 1977. Mean cumulative rainfall (201.7 cm) was 24% less than that calculated from 3 NOAA stations monitored daily at the periphery of the slough. Areal variability of precipitation within the slough ranges from 150 cm in the northeast area to more than 230 cm in southern area. Information gained on rainfall was used to design an efficient and accurate long-term rainfall network for this 1000 km2 area.
24319861|Planting of tree seedlings on reclaimed strip mined lands in Florida is subject to low survival rate and high expense. Oak or pine tree seeds, coated with growing medium containing nutrients, were successfully grown in open sun, provided the coated seeds were mulched. The growing medium or coating was also given a final coat of either Plaster of Paris or foamable polyurethane polymer in order to prevent its disintegration by the elements. This study is concerned with comparision of polymer coatings (including foamable hydrophilic polyurethane) with other coatings.
24320529|Of the 469 Florida sites with potential contamination identified as of May 1988, 39 are National Priorities List (NPL) sites and 23 are State Action sitesmaking them eligible for either the federal Superfund program or the state funded cleanup program. Thirteen of the Superfund sites are under state lead and 26 are managed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Forty one percent of Superfund sites are in the design or construction steps. Interim Remedial Measures (IRM) have been completed or are underway at 25 Superfund sites. Three of the Superfund sites have been proposed for deletion from the NPLthe cleanup completed or long term treatment installed and operating. Fifty two percent of the State Action Sites are in design or construction. IRM's have been completed or are underway at 7 State Action Sites. Remedial actions have been completed at 5 State Action Sites. Progress from site discovery to cleanup for all Florida sites is discussed along with the technical and institutional issues that affect the time it takes to complete the various stages of a cleanup.
24321997|Several important questions regarding the evolutionary history of sturgeon remain unanswered, including the relationship between chromosome number and ploidy level. The Gulf of Mexico sturgeon (Acipenser oxyrinchus desotoi), currently listed as "threatened" under the U. S. Endangered Species Act, is an anadromous fish found along the United States Gulf Coast and its associated rivers. It and its sibling subspecies, the Atlantic sturgeon, are considered one of the 120-chromosome ancestral members of the Acipenseridae. We describe preliminary data that support the argument that Gulf sturgeon have undergone incomplete re-diploidization since the ancestral. Early Jurassic, genome duplication event. We present 10 unpublished Gulf sturgeon-derived microsatellite loci that show evidence of tetrasomic inheritance (out of 33 total tested loci). Support for this argument includes clear stepwise patterns among alleles at all loci, a lack of consistent allele peaks that could be non-specific amplifications, and sequences from three alleles representing a single locus in one individual that are clearly homologous. The pattern of limited tetrasomic inheritance contradicts the established assumption that 120-chromosome sturgeons are effectively diploid and suggests that the process of re-diploidization in Gulf sturgeon is incomplete.
24319598|The biomass of man now far exceeds that of any other large-sized species of animal that has ever lived on earth.
24319465|Samples taken June-August, 1970, yielded 72 Cyanophyta, 46 Chlorophyta, 3 Euglenophyta, 44 Chrysophyta, and 2 Pyrrophyta.
24320454|This study identifies rainfall anomalies, timed with major El Nino events, in seven climatic divisions of Florida. The study also determines the statistical significance of these rainfall anomalies. The seasonal and annual climatology of rainfall is presented for seven climatic divisions of the State for the period 1895 to 1989. Periodogram analysis indicates 5- to 6-year variability in rainfall throughout most of Florida, in particular during winter and spring. Super-posed epoch analysis, utilizing only rainfall during the year prior to and concurrent with a major El Nino, shows that State-wide rainfall anomalies are timed with these Pacific events. The most significant anomalies are: (1) below normal rainfall over all of the State during winter and spring the year prior to an El Nino; and (2) above normal rainfall over all of the State during winter and spring the second year of an El Nino. Largest rainfall anomalies have occurred in the southern climatic divisions of Florida. During winters of the second year of El Nino, south Florida rainfall anomalies range from + 76 to + 94mm ( + 3.0 to + 3.7inches) depending on the climatic division. These anomalies are 45 to 66 percent above normal winter rainfall, and are significant at the 0.999 level.
24320348|Meteorological and hydrographie data were recorded over a 29-da period in the summer of 1981 to describe wind effects on long-period net displacement of water along the navigational channel of the southern Indian River lagoon, Florida. Tidal motions decreased with increasing distance from the ocean inlets at either end of the study area, enhancing wind effects. Tidal current speeds in the middle of the study area were 50% of those at the Fort Pierce Inlet, while the nontidal current variance increased by 27% over the same distance, and by 64% over that at the St. Lucie Inlet. A net displacement of water toward the north throughout the study area was coherent with windstress over time scales in excess of 2 da.
24320029|Observed X-ray powder diffraction data were interpreted with the aid of a calculated pattern based upon the known crystal structure. The results consist of a high quality standard powder pattern with the usual supporting data for an important compound which is not presently included in the X-ray Powder Diffraction File.
24321137|The Indian River Lagoon, Florida has been touted as the most diverse estuary in North America, yet the biodiversity of most biota is virtually unknown. Diatoms are abundant microalgae in this estuary, in planktonic, benthic, and epiphytic habitats. This account utilizes published records supplemented with personal observations to provide the first comprehensive summary of the diatom flora in this unusual estuary system. Apart from novel and cryptic species, 436 taxa are recorded, in 129 genera. The most diverse benthic genera were Mastogloia (36 taxa) and Nitzschia (24 taxa). Among planktonic genera were 38 taxa in Chaetoceros and 19 taxa in Thalassiosira. Sixty-two genera were represented by one species.
24321564|We determined soil preferences of nineteen federally-listed species by overlaying GPS points on soil polygons in nine major protected areas on the Lake Wales Ridge in Highlands County, Florida. We collected 1173 GPS points representing 2577 occurrences of 18 species of vascular plants and one terrestrial lichen. Among species, there is continuous variation in degree and type of specialization for soil groups. Six species were specialized for xeric yellow sands, two species were specialists for xeric white sands, and one species specialized in xeric scrubby flatwoods. Ten species were soil generalists. Xeric white sands (especially St. Lucie) supported the greatest number of occurrences of these listed species, but xeric yellow sands and Satellite soils (supporting xeric scrubby flatwoods) were also important. Other scrubby flatwoods soils, flatwoods soils and depressional soils were not important for these plants. Soil specialists (as compared to soil generalists) were less likely to be post-fire resprouters and had fewer occurrences, but higher population sizes, among the Highlands County locations surveyed. Many locations of suitable soils are unoccupied by these species, most likely because of fire suppression and dispersal limitations. As fire management progresses in protected areas, these parcels should be re-surveyed for the presence of listed species.
24319491|Marco Island estuary has undergone intensive study during a 4-yr period from July 1971 through July 1975. A general summary of the area's physical, chemical and biological makeup is presented here with emphasis on water chemistry and analyses of macroinvertebrate and fish communities. The estuary may be characterized as seasonally hypersaline with low concentrations of dissolved nutrients. Diversity of animal communities is high with elements of both the West Indian and Carolinian Provinces present. Maximum diversity for epibenthic invertebrates and fishes was associated with seagrass meadows and for the benthic infauna with predominantly coarser substrates (100-500 m). In addition, several species of invertebrates and fishes exhibited distinct seasonality, becoming scarce during the cooler months. A comparison is also made between artificial waterways and natural mangrove tidal creeks and open bays. The results demonstrate that for the infaunal community considerable differences occur between the two areas. Less pronounced differences, however, are apparent in the canal fish community which most closely resembles that of the unvegetated open bay area.
24320962|The hammock region of Hernando County is part of a larger hammock belt, termed "Big Hammock" by Harper (1911, 1921), which occupies parts of Citrus, Hernando, and Pasco Counties in central Florida. The Hernando Hammock sub-region contains the most significant natural features of Big Hammock, in particular, its two principal geographic entitiesthe Annuteliga Hammock and the Chocochatti Hammock. Hernando Hammock is extremely diverse in terms of its topography, soils, plant communities, and animal populations; there-fore, it is characterized by unusually high quality wildlife habitat and exceptional species richness. Large parts of the Hammock have been altered as a result of agriculture, industry, transportation, and, more recently, by suburban development. Efforts are being made to preserve at least a small part of the area in its current condition.
24319530|The region of the West Florida Shelf known as the Florida Middle Ground is situated along the boundaries of three water masses, the Gulf Loop Current, the West Florida Estuarine Gyre, and the Florida Bay Waters. During the summer circulation patterns are principally derived from the Loop Current, tidal forces, and water column stratification. Winter circulation is primarily dependent upon wind and tide as the generating forces. The oceanographic conditions of the region result in high water column zooplankton standing crops. These populations are comparable to those reported from regions of upwelling.
24321900|Concerns over water estuarine water quality degradation have prompted Florida environmental agencies to examine potential ecological responses of the Caloosahatchee River and St. Lucie Estuaries (CRE and SLE) to excess nutrient inputs. Understanding estuarine responses to external nutrient loading requires knowledge of internal biogeochemical cycling. This study examined the sediment-water interface in January-February 2008 to quantify internal recycling of dissolved oxygen (O2), inorganic nitrogen (DIN), and inorganic phosphorus (DIP). Approximately 50 intact sediment-water cores were collected from each estuary and incubated under both light and dark conditions. Hourly changes in water column concentrations were measured to calculate sediment-water exchange rates and combined with a suite of sediment, porewater, and water column variables. Salinity, submarine light penetration, sediment chlorophyll, O2 efflux, and sediment DIN uptake were positively correlated in the CRE but not in the SLE. Sediments accounted for 6785% and 50%, of total ecosystem respiration in the CRE and SLE, respectively. Assuming Redfield stoichiometry, this level of benthic respiration could supply 1239% (CRE) and 6.529% (SLE) of the nitrogen required for primary production. Total internal production of DIN was 15.0 and 5.8 times greater than surface water loading to the CRE and SLE, respectively, with benthic DIN flux replacing water column DIN at double the rate of surface inflow during the particularly dry period in early 2008. The sediment-water interface is where light penetration and sediment biogeochemistry interact to influence primary production, material processing, and net metabolism at the estuary scale.
24321671|Horseshoe crabs, Limulus polyphemus, typically inhabit estuaries with pronounced tides that influence the timing of reproduction. However, many of the cues known to mediate spawning and larval hatching are absent in the Indian River Lagoon (IRL) since much of the area is microtidal. This review summarizes our recent studies of the reproductive ecology of L. polyphemus in the IRL that focused on the potential impact of microtidal conditions on the timing and frequency of mating, spawning, and larval hatching and abundance. Extensive surveys conducted throughout the northern region of the IRL indicated that spawning occurs year-round but is aperiodic. Throughout the sampling period, larval abundances were low, despite the fact that environmental conditions were suitable for their survival and development. Peaks in larval abundance were independent of spawning events but were linked to changes in water level. Laboratory experiments indicated that conditions associated with periods of high water, including inundation and mechanical agitation, may facilitate hatching, resulting in short-term peaks in larval abundance. In general, the reproductive ecology of L. polyphemus in the IRL differs markedly from populations in tidal areas. However, results indicate that spawning and larval hatching are cued by environmental conditions that are similar to those associated with tidal changes.
24320223|Eggs of Echinaster sp. (Type II) were fertilizd at field temperature and salinity levels of 25C and 32. Embryos were transferred to 20, 25, 30C and 25, 32, 39 S 2 da after fertilization. At 39, at all temperatures, approximately 45% of all metamorphosed individuals exhibited ray number abnormalities, with 4-ray individuals predominating over 3-ray individuals by a ratio of 2:1. Metamorphosed individuals at 25 and 32 S had the normal 5 rays. These data indicate that salinity can influence ray formation during early development.
24320148|In several mangrove and shoreline plant communities in the Tampa Bay area bryophytes were found in all of the sites examined. Thirty taxa of both mosses and liverworts were collected from a variety of soil and corticolous substrates including Avicennia germinans (L.) L., Conocarpus erecta L. and Laguncularia racemosa (L.) Gaertn. f. The occurrence of bryophytes in coastal plant communities which are influenced by maritime environmental conditions is briefly reviewed.
24321991|Sabal palmetto (cabbage palm) is a native palm species used commonly in urban landscaping throughout Florida. In addition to its aesthetic appeal and high tolerance to the variable environmental conditions found in Florida, the use of cabbage palms in landscaping should be expected to promote urban wildlife because the tree provides food and nesting sites for various organisms, including arthropods. In this study, we compared arthropod number, abundance, and biodiversity in cabbage palms between natural and landscaped environments. Trees in natural environments supported more individuals and greater species richness than trees in landscaped environments. Environmental factors, such as human activity and depauperate botanical communities, might explain why landscaped cabbage palms supported fewer arthropods. This suggests that landscaping with isolated native trees, such as the cabbage palms in this study, in an otherwise lawn-manicured environment might have adverse effects on biodiversity as predicted by island biogeography. Natural and landscaped palms supported a similar diversity of transient arthropods, which were primarily involved either directly or indirectly with pollination. Transient arthropods were found flying around cabbage palms, which might explain the ability of the arthropods to use landscaped trees. Increased use of native species such as S. palmetto in urban landscapes should have a positive effect on urban wildlife that can disperse broadly, such as flying arthropods and birds.
24321799|Lake Thonotosassa is a hypereutrophic lake in west central Florida and the largest natural freshwater lake in Hillsborough County. The Environmental Protection Agency established Total Maximum Daily Loads (TMDLs) for lead in Lake Thonotosassa in 2005. The lake was determined to be impaired for lead based on three exceedences of the EPA's chronic water quality criterion of 2.70 ppb during 2002. The EPA report suggested that a possible source for the lead was from resuspension of contaminated bottom sediments during storm events. The Environmental Protection Commission of Hillsborough County (EPCHC) conducted a study in May 2008 to test for sediment contamination from lead and other metals and to map the distribution of metals in the lake. Results from this study found that most metals, including lead, had sediment concentrations below the Florida state sediment quality guidelines. Highest concentrations for most metals were found associated with high silt/clay sediments in the deeper sites on the west end of the lake. Arsenic, tin, and antimony, however, had highest concentrations at shallow sites. This was attributed to the higher solubility of these elements under the reducing conditions found in the deeper portions of the lake and their subsequent precipitation in the more oxygen rich shallow areas. Overall, there was little evidence that sediment contamination for metals was an issue within Lake Thonotosassa.
24321467|A keystone species and ecosystem engineer, the eastern oyster Crassostrea virginica plays a vital role in estuarine environments. Recently, concern for this resource has arisen in Mosquito Lagoon, Florida. Intense boating activity has caused atypical dead margins (mounds of disarticulated shells) to emerge on oyster reefs located adjacent to major boating channels. Once dead margins are formed, little is known about their influence on reef communities. This study focused on the impact of dead margins on: (1) oyster reef architecture, (2) species diversity, and (3) predation on oyster spat. Structural differences were compared between oyster reefs with no dead margins (reference reefs) and those with dead margins. To determine if dead margins influenced the diversity of mobile species inhabiting oyster reefs, lift nets were deployed across both reef types. Lastly, structural variables (i.e. shell orientation, single versus shell clusters, reef slope) were manipulated in field experiments and effects on oyster predation were observed. Dead margins significantly reduced habitat complexity and species diversity on oyster reefs. Reference reefs had four-fold more live oysters, twice as many shell clusters, and significantly higher community metrics (i.e. species richness, density, biomass). Structural variables did not alter predation efficiency of any of the tested predators.
24322458|Minute black scavenger flies (Diptera: Scatopsidae) were collected in traps baited with octenol and a proprietary "human scent bait" on Key Largo, Long Key, and Vaca Key, Monroe County, Florida. Two species were identified: Holoplagia guamensis (Johannsen), new to the United States and Florida, and Neorhegmoclemina bisaccatum Cook, previously known from Iowa, New York, and northern Florida.
24321666|This study investigates the Holocene evolution of two distinctly different geomorphic regions of the barrier island system in east-central Florida. The northern region is comprised of high relief, shore-parallel beach ridges with a rhythmic lagoon shoreline. Subdued local relief in the southern region reflects the presence of a single primary dune and relict recurved sand spits with an irregular lagoon shoreline. A coarsening-upward sediment sequence observed in the Indian River Lagoon (IRL), is indicative of Holocene marine transgression. The barrier island in the northern region consists of a regressive sandy shoreline sequence reflecting the presence of progradational beach ridge sets. A transgressive sediment succession beneath the barrier island in the southern region is associated with the presence of recurved sand spits, relict tidal-inlet channelfill and flood delta sediment. These observations suggest temporal and spatial variation in sediment supply is responsible for the small-scale differential evolution of this barrier island segment. Radiocarbon dates indicate the IRL basin was initially flooded approximately 7,000 yr B.P. Late-Pleistocene bedrock elevations are relatively shallow beneath the barrier island in both regions. This antecedent topography stalled the landward retreat of the barrier island coincident with Strandline flooding.
24320756|The jaguar guapote (Cichlasorna managuense,) was added to Florida's list of established exotic fishes in 1995. Jaguar guapotes were collected for 12 consecutive months from the Little River Canal (C-7), Florida. Fish and insects were the primary food. Males grow larger than females (only three of 59 guapotes 301 mm TL were females). During 199495, jaguar guapotes spawned primarily between March and November with a peak in July. Fecundity estimates for ripe female jaguar guapotes averaged 4,053 (n = 17; 29 eggs/g whole fish weight).
24320479|Two species of Calystegia are known from Florida. Calystegia catesbeiana is a rare southeastern U.S. endemic, being known in the state from a single locality. Calystegia sepium ssp. limnophila is widespread in the state, extending from the southern tip of the peninsula into the western part of the Panhandle.
24322137|Life history characters of the spotted seatrout (Cynoscion nebulosus) have tremendous potential to discern trends in environmental conditions within and among estuaries. The species is widely distributed (i.e., from North Carolina to Mexico), is both commercially and recreationally important, and rarely leaves its home estuary. Thus, the estuarine conditions to which a population was subjected while growing could affect changes in its life history features such as growth. About 400 spotted seatrout were collected from April through July 2003 from the San Carlos Bay area of the southern portion of Charlotte Harbor in southwest Florida. Otolith sections were examined with enhanced imagery to facilitate recording age and annulus increments from the otolith. There was a significant relationship between otolith radius and fork length that differed between sexes. A comparison of back-calculated size at Age 1 for four year classes (19992002) indicated that there were significant differences in growth between year classes. Initial time-series analysis indicated the potential effects of seagrass density and salinity on fish growth. Salinity conditions are artificially manipulated in this estuary and this action may be responsible for the differences in growth rates observed for both males and females among year classes.
24320439|During winter and spring of 1986 a preliminary study to assess effects of large concentrations of manatees feeding on a Syringodium filiforme dominated seagrass flat in the north Banana River was conducted as part of the long term environmental monitoring program at the Kennedy Space Center, Florida. Aerial surveys were used to collect manatee distribution and abundance information. Data on the distribution, percent cover and biomass of seagrasses were collected from 50 randomly selected locations. Six exclosure cages paired with open plots (2.25 m2) were used to assess grazing affects. Percent cover of Syringodium filiforme at sites open to feeding was greatly reduced (90%) by manatees cropping the blades and mean shoot biomass was significantly (p = 0.03) reduced. Manatee distribution data showed a positive correlation with Syringodium filiforme (r = 0.65) and Halodule wrightii (r = 0.50), and a negative correlation with the macroalgae, Caulerpa prolifera (r = 0.74).
24321454|Amphibian populations worldwide have been declining for decades, largely due to habitat destruction, water pollution, and introduced species. Wetland impacts are often the cause of local amphibian declines. We studied the effect of alterations in wetland hydrology on frog and toad populations at Morris Bridge Wellfield (MBWF) in Hillsborough County, Florida. Frogs and toads in wetlands in zones of different surficial aquifer drawdown levels were studied to determine if hydrological differences resulting from groundwater pumping affected their populations. Nighttime call surveys and tadpole sampling were conducted at 16 wetlands in three drawdown zones from June through August 2004. While there was no significant relationship between the number of tadpole species and drawdown zone, the zone unaffected by groundwater pumping had significantly higher tadpole densities than the other zones. No correlation was found between the number of species calling in each wetland and the number of tadpole species captured. Cuban treefrogs (Osteopilus septentrionalis), an introduced species that competes with and consumes native frogs, comprised 48% of tadpoles captured and were found at 50% of the wetlands studied. This marks the beginning of a long-term study of the interaction between the impacts of hydrological alterations and introduced species on native frogs and toads at MBWF.
24319947|The role of age factors (e.g. where persons over 65 live in Florida) is considered in comparing the heart and colorectal cancer death rates in 67 counties in Florida. The degree of association with age (percentage of those 65 and older) and heart death rate was r2 = 0.77 (p < 0.001); for age and colorectal cancer rate, the value was r2 = 0.63 (p < 0.001). The results are compared with land factors and the influence of age is shown to be a dominant factor, even with age-adjusted data for the heart death rates. The association of percentage of persons over age 65 years is less evident with colorectal cancer death rates, even though the latter are not age-adjusted. The importance of age factors may be the result of the unique population in Florida; that is, a rapidly growing state that has traditionally attracted a post-65-year population. As a consequence, age-adjusted factors that are based on an idealized 1940s population used for age-adjustment reflect an inadequacy of the population base for the present population.
24321377|Early work on marine and mangrove fungi was conducted at Biscayne Bay, Florida, including taxonomic, physiological and ecological studies. In this study, some 250 samples of mangrove wood were collected in and around Fort Pierce and the Florida Keys from the mangrove tree species Avicennia germinans, Conocarpus erectus and Rhizophora mangle. In addition, Thalassia testudinum, Salicornia virginica, and sand were collected for investigation of other species of marine fungi. Fifty-three marine and mangrove fungi were identified bringing the total species reported for Florida to 90. The fungi collected are compared with those reported from the Bahamas and the Atlantic Ocean.
24320442|Nearest neighbor tests of spatial dispersion using Monte Carlo procedures did not reveal pattern in a fabricated data set until applied separately to population subsets (i.e., males and females). An index of association was needed for map data from field experiments, so the statistic Kappa was evaluated and found inadequate for our purposes. Alternative statistics unfortunately are not available.
24320438|During December, 1989 low temperatures resulted in the thermal mortality of large numbers of Tilapia melanotheron in manmade aquatic habitats on central Merritt Island, Florida. Estimates of the number of fishes killed at four locations ranged from 23 to 2662. All locations were characterized by shallow water (<1.5 m), low salinities (7), and narrow connections (culverts or canals) to the Indian River lagoon system.
24320581|Kraft black liquor (KBL), a by-product of the paper pulp industry, was neutralized, treated and diluted to produce a material (10% neutralized KBL) that has the potential to retard the growth of Hydrilla verticillata (Royle) by shading. Phase one of the research is concerned with the mechanism of action: light reduction versus chemical toxicity. A Warburg bioassay indicated that addition of the dark liquid (10% neutralized KBL) inhibited oxygen production within an hour. A non-contact bioassay indicated the dark liquid significantly affected the light that hydrilla could receive; both the percent fresh weight change of hydrilla and light intensity were directly related to the log of the black liquor concentration (dilution with 10% Hoaglands). Change in fresh weight of hydrilla in 10% Hoaglands and diluted black liquor mixture was measured every 3-4 days. Pseudo-first-order rate constants for fresh weight change were calculated and found to be inversely related to the black liquor concentration, another indication of shading as a major, but not exclusive, mechanism of action.
24319568|Because of the unusual humidity of the Florida environment a special closed system has been developed for handling the sensitive photographic plates used in astronomical photography. In this system the plates are protected by a dry nitrogen atmosphere at all critical stages, including exposure at the telescope. The system confers substantial advantages over unprotected plates in stability, consistency, and sensitivity.
24321389|Agricultural impoundments represent potentially important habitat, but little information is available on the use of these areas by wildlife or how that use varies seasonally. We conducted weekly surveys during a 5-year period to document seasonal, annual, and habitat influences on the avian community of a 10.5-ha agricultural impoundment in southwest Florida. The impoundment included a mix of wetland and upland cover types typical of impoundments in the region. We recorded approximately 1/3 of the 229 potential native resident and migratory avifauna known to occur in the region, including 5 species of state or federally listed wading birds. Of the 85 species documented, 65% nested in southwest Florida, many of which were augmented by winter migrants. The avian assemblage was relatively evenly distributed and 5 of the 7 defined guilds were represented among the 8 most abundant species. Wetland cover types attracted the most species and birds, many of the most abundant of which were species known to use wetlands with relatively dense vegetation. Seasonal effects associated with changing wetland conditions and migratory species were principal factors influencing changes in the bird community. Numbers of species and birds were inversely related to the rainy summer months and positively associated with improved foraging conditions created by seasonal changes in water level. Annual effects were less important but species and numbers of birds declined during the year of lowest annual rainfall. Southwest Florida has thousands of hectares devoted to agricultural impoundments, the collective contribution of which may be extremely important for conservation of regional and migratory bird populations, yet almost nothing is known about the value of these habitats in working landscapes or how best to manage them for wildlife.
24321391|Using a series of drift fences, we examined the movements of four amphibians at a breeding site in the Florida panhandle during three consecutive breeding seasons. More Ambystoma cingulatum immigrated from pine savanna than from pine plantation. Eurycea quadridigitata immigrated equally from pine savanna and pine plantation one year, but exhibited bias towards pine savanna or pine plantation in other years. Pseudacris nigrita immigrants were randomly distributed around the breeding site in one year, but biased towards pine savanna in another. Pseudacris ornata immigrated without directional bias both years they immigrated. Biased immigration orientation presumably reflects preference for particular upland attributes, whereas lack of directional bias suggests surrounding uplands provide equally suitable habitat. Among-year differences in immigration orientation indicate that single-season studies could yield erroneous results. Ambystoma cingulatum was captured up to 100 m from the breeding site, and both Pseudacris species were captured up to 200 m from the breeding site (the maximum distance of our upland drift fences). Eurycea quadridigitata was captured up to 180 m from another nearby breeding site. Our observations suggest that land management considerations for these species should extend a minimum of 200 m from known breeding sites.
24321913|In order to identify plant species and communities that may be impacted by increasing urbanization in the coastal Apalachicola region of the panhandle of Florida, our study integrates plot level species data collection with GIS remote sensing. Two hundred and eighty-nine plant species were identified during field survey including fourteen Florida listed rare species. Hierarchical classification of plant species cover data yielded the identification of five upland habitats: bayhead, flatwoods, sand pine scrub, sandhill, and scrubby flatwoods. Classification trees were used to classify Landsat Thematic Mapper images and identify and map pine dominated habitats in the study area. Using the predicted rate of land use change from natural habitat to urban for the state of Florida, we estimate the loss of 437 ha of globally imperiled sand pine scrub and 621 ha of Florida imperiled sandhill habitats in the study area in the next 50 years. This land is predominately located nearest the Gulf of Mexico and knowledge of the potential impacts of urbanization on the marine and estuarine communities in this area is needed. This data is necessary in order to inform urban planning and help find a balance between economic growth and ecological stability for this and other seaside communities.
24319874|On the basis of 7 characteristics, C. pulchella darlingtoni is found to be a subspecies distinct from C. p. pulchella.
24321894|Increased anthropogenic loading of mercury (Hg) has caused elevated levels in biota. Tissue samples were collected from Apalachicola in 1995 and Chassahowitzka in 1997 and analyzed by Florida Department of Environmental Protection for total mercury. Hair collected from four individuals within the Chassahowitizka subpopulation had a mean mercury concentration of 0.673  0.281 g/g and a body-weight weighted mean concentration of 0.712 g/g. Whole blood collected from 21 Apalachicola bears had a mean mercury concentrations of 0.050  0.003 g/g with a body-weight weighted mean concentration of 0.052 g/g. To our knowledge this is the first report of Florida black bear blood and hair Hg concentrations. A baseline for Hg levels in Florida bears is important to assess potential risk of mercury exposure to other populations of black bears throughout its range.
24321932|Beachrock formations in Dry Tortugas National Park, USA, function as important nursery habitats for many reef fishes. During low tide, the northeast Loggerhead Key nursery is reduced to a series of small rockpools exposing fish to rapid and sometimes extreme temperature changes. We estimated the critical thermal maximum (CTmax) of juvenile frillfin goby, Bathygobius soporator, sergeant major, Abudefduf saxatilis, cocoa damselfish, Stegastes variabilis, and sailors choice, Haemulon parra, collected from nursery pools. Frillfin goby exhibited the highest CTmax (40.1  0.20C) followed by sergeant major (39.0  0.11C), cocoa damselfish (38.3  0.09C), and sailors choice (36.8  0.42C). All CTmax measures were statistically distinct and when compared to likely rockpool temperatures, suggest that juvenile fishes may depend on both physiological and behavioral adaptations to cope with rapidly fluctuating nursery temperatures.
24319573|Supernatant fractions obtained by mild acid hydrolysis of yeast phase Histoplasma capsulatum cell walls were active in eliciting delayed hypersensitivity skin reactions in H. capsulatum sensitized guinea pigs. Two peaks of activity occurred. The first or early activity was recoverable from the supernates almost immediately and persisted for 7 hr. The second or later activity became apparent at 15 hr and persisted through 48 hr of hydrolysis. The majority of the early activity was found to be released in the first 2 hr, while the later activity was released continuously between 15 and 48 hr. At least a portion of the material exhibiting the early activity was acid-stable. Skin-reactive materials were shown to be different from those involved in passive hemagglutination and fluorescence of the cell wall, as well as from those involved in precipitin reactions.
24320614|X-ray photoelectron binding energies of inner shell electrons of platinum and ligand nitrogen atoms were obtained in the series of platinum(II) diethylenetriamine (dien) complexes, [Pt(dien)X]Y, where X = CN-, $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{O}}_{2}^{-}$, I-, Cl-, and $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$ and where selected counter ions, Y = I-, Cl-, or $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$. The ordering deduced for the coordinated anions X- in [Pt(dien)X]Y complexes was compared with the ordering for the same ligands in the spectrochemical series, the nephelauxetic series and the trans-effect of coordination complexes. It was found that the XPS Pt(4f5/2) and Pt(4f7/2) values for these anions correlated quite well with the ordering of the spectrochemical series, while the XPS Pt(4d5/2) values correlated very well with the ordering in the nephelauxetic series. The XPS(dien)N(1s) values fit also quite well with the ordering of the trans-effect; however, no evidence was seen with the ordering of the secondary trans-effect.
24319859|The tolerance of Schinus terebinthifolius to saline conditions was investigated in order to determine its ability to invade and establish in coastal communities of the Everglades National Park. Viability of seed soaked in salt solutions for 72 hours declined as salinity increased, although 60 % of the seeds were viable after soaking in 40 ppt salt solution. Germination rates in petri dishes declined more sharply with salinity increases, with only 12 % germination at 20 ppt salt solution. On native soils treated with salt solutions, germination never occurred at salinities higher than 5 ppt. Survival of seedlings transplanted into field sites occurred only where soil salinities were 5 ppt or less. The findings suggest that Schinus is a potential threat to halophytic plant communities only where freshwater has replaced the higher salinity waters that initially fostered the salt tolerant plants.
44113159|Seagrass habitats support marine food webs and provide essential habitat for a variety of species. Seagrasses and associated algae at three locations along the Intracoastal Waterway in Broward County, FL were assessed for their trophic contribution to the marine organisms in the area. Two seagrass species, along with associated algae, invertebrates, and vertebrates, were analyzed for stable carbon and nitrogen isotope ratios to determine trophic relationships. Significant differences were found in C and  between both seagrass species and among the three sites. The C of Johnson's seagrass Halophila johnsonii ranged from 16.28 to 11.27 while shoal grass Halodule wrightii ranged from 15.78 to 13.36. The N for shoal grass ranged from 4.69 to 7.08 versus 0.80 to 7.86 for Johnson's seagrass. Neither seagrass species was a dominant food source and epiphytes appeared to be the greater trophic contributor. However, the C (16.28 to  11.27) and N (0.80 to 7.86) of both seagrass species did fall in the fractionation range of potential consumers suggesting that seagrass material could be ingested incidentally while grazing on epiphytes and other primary producers. Our results indicate that seagrass in Broward County are valuable both as a direct food source and as substrate for epiphytes.
24319968|Twelve satellite-tracked drifting buoys were released, one each month between April 1984 and March 1985, at the 75 m isobath, 70 km southeast of Cape Canaveral, FL. Starting in May 1984, 500 drift cards were also released at each buoy deployment from the same site (28.0N, 80.0W). In addition, satellite-tracked buoys from May 1979, September 1983, and February 1985, which drifted into or through the area, were studied for information about surface currents and particle trajectories. All 12 buoys from the 28N/80W launch site drifted north past Cape Canaveral (28.5N); only the May 1984 buoy drifted into the coastal zone off Mayport, FL (30.4N), although several others showed a tendency to do so in that area. Every buoy deployed within 5 km of the western edge of the Gulf Stream was entrained into the current, and some as far as 25 km were also entrained. The September 1983 bouy, which was deployed slightly west of 28N/80W, and the February 1985 buoy, which was deployed in the Gulf of Mexico, both came ashore near St. Lucie Inlet, FL (27.2N), 140 km south of Cape Canaveral. Drift cards from May, September, October, and November 1984, and February 1985 were recovered west and north of 28N/80W. Forty percent of the cards recovered were from south of Cape Canaveral; Cocoa Beach, FL (28.3N), and Pontevedra Beach, FL (30.2N), reported most of the returns. For those months when drift cards were returned, buoy trajectories showed little correlation with drift card vectors. Drift cards established the possibility of materials coming ashore along the Florida Atlantic coast, both north and south of Cape Canaveral, particularly in the autumn.
24321908|This paper is the result of ongoing research conducted at the University of North Florida, School of Engineering regarding carbon sequestration activities in Florida, USA. The issue of global climate change has led great interest to bear on reducing carbon emissions through new technologies such as geologic carbon sequestration. Engineers, scientists, and governing bodies across the globe have studied the costs associated with transporting carbon dioxide from point sources to repository sites but few have completed analysis for Florida. In 2007, Florida power plants accounted for over 143 million tonnes of CO2 emitted into the atmosphere. This report continues recently published cost analyses and transport optimization techniques for transporting carbon dioxide from power plants in Florida to proposed carbon repositories throughout the state. New transportation scenarios are introduced along with revised costs and transport optimization results.
24320948|Sodium fluorosilicate, a by-product of the production of phosphoric acid, is a nuisance material because of the tendency to build up in pipes and the need to remove the material from pipes. Samples of scale from the industry were analyzed and were tested in the presence and absence of magnetic fields (1200 and 2000 gauss). Enhanced solubility was noted in the presence of a magnetic field. The effect is ascribed to an increase in entropy as a result of the field, and the entropy increase results in an increase in the solubility of the scale. At room temperature, the solubility of fluorosilicate scale was 1.70g/100g, and at 50 C in the presence of a magnetic field it was increased by about 2528%.
24320331|Reproductive biology of 3 species of sea anemones was studied over an 8 mo period in the intertidal zone along the central Atlantic coast of Florida. Actinia bermudensis on the north jetty at Fort Pierce Inlet spawned at the end of September 1977; planulae were brooded throughout the yr. The sex distribution of 82 animals examined was 41 females, 5 males and 36 without gonads. Aiptasia pallida from Sebastian Inlet spawned in September 1977 and possibly in March 1978; the skewed sex distribution of 134 animals examined was 34 females, 2 males and 98 without gonads. Bunodosoma cavernata from the south jetty at Jupiter Inlet spawned in October 1977; planulae were brooded throughout the yr. The sex ratio of 75 animals examined was closer to one-to-one (19 females, 29 males, 26 lacked gonads, and 1 hermaphrodite).
24319806|Field and herbarium studies of the morning glory (Ipomoea) were made for Florida. Keys and illustrations are given for the state's 26 species.
24319546|Following a fall tomato crop, 9 vegetable crops were grown with or without additional fertilizer. The fall tomato crops received 283 kg/ha N, 112 kg/ha P2O5, 393 kg/ha K2O, and minor elements. The vegetable crops were fertilized at a rate of 220 kg/ha N, 112 kg/ha P2O5, and 112 kg/ha K2O, or were grown on residual nutrients alone. Additional fertilizer restricted or prevented to a greater degree the germination of carrot, green onion, lettuce and radish seeds, whereas residual fertilizer did not. The survival and growth of broccoli, cabbage, cauliflower, and kohlrabi transplants were also affected by additional or residual fertilizers. Zucchini squash was not significantly affected by excess salts.
24321836|Florida apple snails, Pomacea paludosa, are the nearly exclusive prey of the endangered snail kite, Rostrhamus sociabilis plumbeus. Declines in snail numbers have been documented in wetlands critical to snail kite populations and are especially concerning given the raptor's dependence on them. Stock enhancement of hatchery-reared snails into wild populations has been proposed, but a method for distinguishing wild from hatchery snails should be developed to gauge stocking success. We measured carbon and oxygen stable isotope values of Florida apple snail shells to evaluate their potential as natural tags to distinguish wild from hatchery-reared snails. Shells were obtained from hatchery snails (n = 24) reared in south Florida and two groups of wild snails (n=12, n=15) collected from Lake Kissimmee, Florida four months apart. Shells were analyzed for 13C and 18O values with stable isotope ratio-mass spectrometry (SIR-MS). Both isotope ratios were significantly different among the three groups (ANOVA; p<0.001), thus suggesting shell stable isotope ratios may serve as an effective natural tag to distinguish hatchery from wild apple snails. However, significant differences in 13C and 18O values also existed between wild groups, suggesting disparities in food sources and ambient water temperatures existed between wild groups.
24321432|Permits are one method to manage state listed species located on lands proposed for development in Florida. The data recorded on an application and issued permit document impacts to a species and, if applicable, mitigation for the impacts. As the number of permits issued accumulates over time the impact and mitigation data can be analyzed to help determine population trends, determine the amount of habitat lost or gained, evaluate the management strategy, and review progress toward permit goals. The purpose of this study was to quantify permit data collected from 1990 through 2005 for two state listed species in Florida: gopher tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus) and Florida burrowing owls (Athene cunicularia floridana). The permits examined included Special Tortoise Relocation Permit, Standard Tortoise Relocation Permit, Incidental Take Permit, and Migratory Bird Nest Removal Permit. For three of the four permits examined we were unable to either verify or quantify impacts due to permitting because of missing or inconsistent data. We suggest that management plans for state listed species include protocols defining and documenting standards for the quality control of permit data collection, entry, and management.
24319648|Additional records of the xanthid crab Allactaea lithostrota Williams, 1974 obtained at 4 localities in the West Indies Province extended its geographic range from North Carolina to the coast of Venezuela.
24320091|Identification of genera included in Crum and Steere Mosses of Porto Rico is simplified by provision of a generic key not included in the original work. The key is artificial and based upon vegetative characters.
24320316|Maximum densities of east-central Florida populations of the tropical peripheral fishes, Oostethus brachyurus lineatus, Gobiomorus dormitor, Awaous tajasica and Gobionellus pseudofasciatus occurred during the winter and spring months in the lower portions of freshwater tributaries to the Indian River lagoon. All populations declined during the wet season, reaching minimum levels during peak rainfall periods. Specific microhabitat requirements were observed for each species. These species have a limited Florida range which is discussed relative to various environmental parameters and dispersal mechanisms, such as water temperature regimes, oceanic current patterns and particular microhabitat preferences.
24319910|Fungal filaments from Millepora complanata Lamarck were observed after mass expulsion of zooxanthellae. The hijphae were characterized using light and scanning microscopy and Gomori's methenamine silver stain.
24322460|Three hundred and seventy-two Florida specimens of the Bronze Frog (Lithobates clamitans clamitans) were examined to determine seasonal activity, gonadal cycle, growth, and sexual maturity of this geographically wide-ranging species at the southeastern edge of the species range. Post-metamorphic individuals were active throughout the year based on captures. Metamorphoslings were captured during February-September, although emergence may have been nearly continuous. Depending on location, calling ranged from May-September to continuous. Gravid females were captured during April-December, but evidence suggested potential for gravid females during January-March. Extended breeding, small metamorphoslings (mean = 24.1 mm), and rapid growth to sexual maturity (59 mo. after transformation) at small body sizes in males (40.7 mm) and females (49.1 mm) and small mean body sizes of adults (61.5 mm SVL in males, 66.8 mm SVL in females) of Florida populations typified the extreme southern pattern of this geographically wide-ranging North American anuran.
24321470|Nine species of saprophytic hyphomycetes (anamorphic fungi), collected on plant debris from two different localities of southeast Florida, are recorded for the first time from the United States. They are: Anungitea fragilis, Beltraniella havanensis, Canalisporium caribense, Circinotrichum papakurae, Dictyosporium micronesicum, Dictyosporium subramanianii, Dischloridium laeense, Gyrothrix verticillata and Piricauda cochinensis. Comments about their taxonomy, ecology and geographical distribution are included. Five infrequently reported species and twenty additional widespread taxa are also listed.
24319467|New localities are cited off Honduras, Yucatn, Florida and North Carolina for this species which is best known from southern tropical Atlantic coastal waters.
24321270|Rivulus marmoratus (Pisces: Aplocheilidae) is a small cyprinodontid indigenous to mangroves of the western tropical Atlantic. This species is well known as the only self-fertilizing, hermaphroditic vertebrate, and populations normally consist of genetically diverse groups of homozygous clones. However, male fish are known from a few populations, and outcrossing and heterozygosity have been documented from two areas in Central America. Rivulus marmoratus also exhibits a number of behaviors and environmental tolerances unusual in fishes, and since the species is secretive, rare in some habitats and difficult to collect, knowledge of its natural history has been limited until recently. Within the last decade field and laboratory work and ongoing investigations into R. marmoratus genetics have added greatly to our knowledge of this unusual fish. This study provides a general review of the biology and ecology of R. marmoratus.
24319413|The Ruby-Throat Hummingbird is known to feed from at least 31 plant species in 21 genera among 18 families. A review of prior records supplemented by personal observations seems to indicate that co-evolution may have occurred with some plants and the birds. A correlation also exists between flowering times and migration.
24321209|The mating behavior of the different live-bearing fish species within the family Poeciliidae varies widely. Several species, such as guppies (Poecilia reticulata), sailfin mollies (Poecilia latipinna) and swordtails (Xiphophorus hellerij are well-studied. However, very little information has been recorded regarding the largest poeciliid, the pike killifish ("Belonesox belizanus). This work documents the courtship behavior of male pike killifish, a species which persists within the United States, only in Florida. Unlike males in the non-courting Poeciliidae species, pike killifish males repeatedly conduct particular behavioral acts when in the presence of females. Females do not conduct this suite of behaviors. A courting male will position himself in front of, and perpendicular to a female, and fan his fins and gonopodium (male mating structure), in her direction, prior to attempting to mate. His coloration becomes more vibrant during a display, which is often followed by mating attempts. Pike killifish compose a monotypic genus that has previously been used as an outgroup when studying relationships between live-bearing species. Thus, documenting the courtship behavior of this species is relevant for use in studies where mating-behavior comparisons are being made across genera within this family.
24319704|Birds were sampled over a 1-yr period in a south Florida flatwoods habitat. Forty-nine species were recorded: 32 permanent residents; 13 winter residents; and 4 summer residents. The total number of species was high in the fall and winter and low in the spring. Granivores were dominant during the summer, but insectivores were dominant during the winter. Relative to granivores and insectivores, very few omnivorous and carnivorous species were observed. Density and species diversity of birds in the flatwoods were much higher than those reported for North American grasslands but lower than those reported from pine woodland areas in Georgia.
24321437|Copper contamination in south Florida citrus grove soils have led to concerns over the potential impact of copper (Cu) in the aquatic environment. Surface freshwater monitoring data for south Florida were collected from on-line databases to evaluate risk from Cu contamination by comparing those data to water quality criteria (WQC) based on both water hardness and the biotic ligand model (BLM). On average, BLM-based chronic WQC were 1.8 times greater than hardness-based chronic WQC at the same location. As a result, Cu concentrations at 11.8 percent of the sampling stations exceeded hardness-based chronic WQC, while Cu at 1.3 percent of the stations exceeded the BLM-based chronic WQC. Based on the available monitoring data and risk predicted by the BLM, there is a low risk of adverse impact from Cu contamination in the freshwater aquatic community in south Florida.
24320554|In south-central Florida, honey bees (Apis mellifera L.) of European descent occupied nest boxes with round entrance holes of about 7.9 cm2 (3.2 cm diameter), but rejected those with areas of about 31.7 cm (6.4 cm diameter). They also accepted boxes with nest volumes ranging from 10.2 to 13.2 L, considerably smaller than any recorded natural nest or human-made nest box occupied by honey bee swarms in northern regions. The strong behavioral difference between populations in semitropical and cool-temperate regions may reflect genetic differences or non genetic based flexibility in response to differing environmental conditions.
24319382|The introduction to the marketplace of solar equipment which does not meet performance expectations can have a serious detrimental effect on the industry and solar energy utilization in general. The equipment which industry produces must be efficient and well constructed. The best method of assuring that this will be the case is to have available a well thought out and executed solar equipment testing program. This paper reviews some flat plate collector and solar water heater testing literature and describes programs presently in existence. The theoretical basis for flat plate collector thermal performance criteria is discussed as are collector diagnostic testing techniques.
24321543|Four species of tardigrade were recovered from samples of mosses, lichens, and leaf litter collected at six sites in the Florida Keys. Diversity of tardigrade species in the Florida Keys was lower than on the Florida mainland, and was consistent with a documented decline in tardigrade diversity from north to south in peninsular Florida.
24320491|A stand of cogongrass was burned in February 1983, and the regrowth sprayed with 0.5, 1.0, and 2.0% solutions (v/v) of glyphosate in either April, August, or November of the same year. Plant density was estimated immediately before each treatment and again in July 1984 and 1985. Plant control with the 2% glyphosate treatment differed significantly (p<0.05) from the 0.5 and 1.0% solution treatments only after the November application date. Glyphosate as a 2% solution appeared to control cogongrass satisfactorily for at least 2 yr (91% mortality), while control after the August application never exceeded 40%. Controlling cogongrass in forests will be required to effectuate adequate natural regeneration of pines or survival of planted seedlings and to maintain natural diversity of plant species.
24319678|Quantitative data have been presented for the occurrence and primary productivity of marine algae growing on the roots of red mangrove in southern Puerto Rico. The wet weight of algae per root (of nine roots) averaged 274g. The average number of algal species per root (of ten roots) was 5.1 and the greatest number per root was ten. A list of species which were dominant on individual roots includes: Acanthophora spicifera, Anadyomene stellata, Batophora oerstedii, Caulerpa racemosa, C. verticillata, Dictyota dichotoma, Halimeda incrassata, Valonia ventricosa, Wrangelia bicuspidata, and occasionally others. In a set of typical physiological observations on 14 kinds of algae chlorophyll a content averaged 2.11 mg g-1, carbon fixed in mg per g dry wt per day averaged 34.1 with the oxygen method and 14.7 with the 14C technique. The flora of an average root was calculated to produce in gross photosynthesis 1.47 g C per day, and in "net" assimilation with the 14C method about 0.64 g C per day. The flora of a mangrove root appears to produce about as much organic matter per day as has been observed in a square meter column of phytoplankton in moderately rich tropical lagoons.
24319750|About 68.0% of all animal phyla have only free-living species, and approximately 11.0% of all animal phyla have only parasitic species.
24320191|A needs assessment of Cuban and Haitian refugees living in Tampa was conducted from November 1982 through May 1983 by using key informant interviews and by surveying 57 community leaders who had been involved with refugee resettlement. Forty-one (72 % ) respondents completed and returned a mailed questionnaire. The results yielded a priority ranking of refugee home management needs. The top-ranked needs were learning to speak English (35 responses), learning how to look for a job (31 responses), and medical care (26 responses). Social service agencies in Tampa have tended to give top priority to these needs.
24319605|Coca-cola is absolved. Bologna and potato chips are brain foods.
24319507|The perennial submersed aquatic plant, Hydrilla verticillata Royle has been grown in the laboratory in flasks (250, 500 ml), carboys (20 I), and large tank (350 I). Rates of oxygen production have been measured for each, and the advantages and disadvantages of each size container for measuring viability-growth studies are considered. Flasks could be used for screening studies, but were unsuitable for kinetic studies (rate of production of oxygen) which were done with 20 l and 350 I containers. Comparable kinetic data can be obtained with both containers, but the 350 I system is less likely to cause plant stress owing to oxygen supersaturation. The possibility for reducing plant growth by addition of Chelex-100 was explored.
24321254|Studies were conducted to identify the behavioral components of maternal behavior of the shrew, Blarina carolinensis, in non-manipulated litters, and to assess the effects of litter gender composition (LGC) on subsequent maternal behavior. Maternal behaviors consisted of nursing, licking, nest maintenace, retrieval of young, and miscellaneous (non-maternal) activities including eating, drinking, grooming, scratching, and sleeping. Weaning occured between 2324 days of age. On day 13, when male and female pups could first be distinguished from one another on the basis of the appearance of mammae in females, 13 litters containing 5 pups each were culled to 4 and randomly assigned to 1 of 3 treatment groups: MM (all males), MF (2 males and 2 females), and FF (all females). Behavioral interactions between mothers and their young were observed from day 2 to day 22. There were no significant differences in mass between the treatment groups for individual neonates and litters over the entire weaning period. At birth, neonates ranged from 0.670.74 g, and the weight of the entire litters ranged from 2.433.17 g. At weaning, the pups weighed between 8.849.47 g, with no significant gender differences. Maternal behavior was more pronounced in the days immediately following birth. There was a significant decrease in the frequency of nursing and licking between days 2 and 22 following birth, and an increase in miscellaneous activities. The amount of time spent in nursing, licking, and nest maintenance decreased significantly, with a similar increase for miscellaneous activities. MM mothers showed a higher frequency and duration of nursing and licking than those from the MF and FF groups. In B. carolinensis, LGC affects some aspects of maternal behavior but not the physical development of offspring.
24320612|We examined predation on artificial ground nests in southwestern Florida from May to July 1989. No predation was found on artificial ground nests in pine flatwoods (N=180) during three, 8-day trials. In contrast, 100% predation occurred on nests (N=30) in wetland and hammock habitat during one, 8-day trial. Predation was attributed to mammalian predators, most likely feral hogs and raccoons. Although feral hogs are thought to be important predators of eggs in ground nests, the results of this study indicate that feral hogs were not important predators on ground nests in the pine flatwoods habitat where most ground-nesting occurs. Our limited observations indicate that predation levels by feral hogs, and other mammals could have greater impacts in wetland and hammock habitats, and further study in these habitats is warranted.
24320671|Davian behavior was reported for two anurans, the Cuban treefrog (Osteopilus septentrionalis) and the southern toad (Bufo terrestris). The episodes were initiated by automobiles having killed the females with which the males amplected. Because of high probability of mortality on the road and no chance of successful reproduction, this behavior reduces the fitness of participating males. Davian behavior represents a Darwinian dilemma because the drive to mate overrides the loss of fitness incurred by a type of misdirected copulation for which adaptations to guard against do not appear to exist. Consequently, recent human-mediated circumstances that provide false mates at frequencies not realized in nature remain a novel counter-selective agent to indiscriminate mate choice in males.
24321022|Barbronia weberi (Blanchard, 1897), an Asian freshwater leech predaceous on invertebrates, is reported from Florida. This is the first record of this species in North America. Anatomical and distributional notes are given for the species.
24321087|The D-ribose high-affinity transport operon (RbsDACBKR) of Escherichia coli encodes the proteins necessary for high-affinity transport and utilization of D-ribose. rbsD encodes a 15 kDa protein that is not essential for D-ribose high-affinity transport. RbsD is unique as a component of a highaffinity transport system in that it has a TonB box at its amino terminus. Neither RbsD or RbsK are required for D-ribose high-affinity transport, but their potential interaction with each other has not been examined. Characterization of a rbs operon mutant at the TonB box of RbsD implicates the RbsD gene product as a regulator of ribokinase (RbsK) activity.
24319663|Kinosternon punctatum Gray is a junior synonym of Kinosternon subrubrum subrubrum (Lacpde), not Kinosternon subrubrum steindachneri (Siebenrock) as the type locality suggests.
24321106|Transmission electron microscope observations made from 1995 and 2000 phytoplankton samples revealed two protists new to Florida, Cochliopodium bilimbosum (Auerbach) Leidy and Lepidotrachelophyllum fornicus Nicholls and Lynn.
24320088|Samples of mature leaves from various plant species were collected from experimental plots located at Kennedy Space Center during August 1973 and April 1974. Concentrations of the following elements were measured in each of the samples using atomic absorption techniques: K, Na, Ca, Mg, Fe, Mn, Zn, Cu, and Al. The concentrations of B and Mo were found to be below the sensitivity of the method.
24319974|Groundwater in Florida has been contaminated by serveral classes of chemicals. Regulatory interest in these chemicals has focused on impacts such as the loss of potable water supplies as well as cleanup and reclamation strategies. Also of interest, but often overlooked, are chemical transformation processes that occur in the subsurface aquatic environment. Using laboratory microcosms as model groundwater systems, we studied: (a) hydrolysis reactions and related processes involving aldicarb, a carbamate pesticide, including possible changes that could occur upon interaction with surface waters; (b) the degradation of industrial and petroleum derived organic chemicals; and (c) the abiotic conversion of 1,1,1,-trichloroethane to 1,1-dichloroethene. The application of these laboratory model results to field sites can provide useful interpretive information about the fate of these classes of chemicals in groundwater.
24319961|Grass carp, Ctenopharyngodon idella 61/ha, were introduced into a 1900-ha North-Florida reservoir with dense populations of Illinois pondweed, Potamogeton illinoensis, and Eurasian watermilfoil, Myriophyllum spicatum. Aquatic vegetation and benthic macroinvertebrates were monitored for forty-one months. Grass carp feeding activities eliminated Illinois pondweed two years after initial stocking, and the Eurasian watermilfoil was greatly reduced three years after stocking. In spite of the reduction in the aquatic plant habitat, total benthic macroinvertebrates increased significantly. Much of the increase occurred among the Chironomini (Diptera), Oligochaeta, and Tanytarsini (Diptera). The progressive increase in total catch of invertebrates may be related to degree of macrophyte removal by grass carp. Partial control of vegetation was achieved during the second year and early third year, corresponding with an average 73% increase in benthos. Near total control of the vegetation occurred in late third and fourth years, with a corresponding 274% increase in benthic invertebrates over that present in the first year. We hypothesize that depletion of the macrophytes and deposition of partially digested plant material by grass carp could increase available food by release of nutrients for periphytic algal production and subsequent utilization by benthos (planktonic chlorophyll a decreased). The increase in particulate organic matter (indicated by a significant increase in turbidity and Kjeldahl nitrogen) would also favor an increase in benthic detritivores.
24321448|Sedimentary organic matter composition and distribution in the tidal reaches of the Alafia and Little Manatee Rivers were studied to compare such data for a river with extensive watershed alterations (Alafia River) to one that has a less altered watershed (Little Manatee River). Sediment samples were analyzed for percent sand, silt, and clay, organic matter, protein, lipid, carbohydrate, lignin phenols (LP), fatty acids (FA), and C:N ratios. Sediments in the Alafia River were generally higher in organic matter than in the Little Manatee River. Overall, the concentrations of LPs and FAs were high where organic matter was high in both rivers. Concentrations of sedimentary LPs were greater in the Alafia River sediments than in the Little Manatee River. Concentrations of FAs were higher in the Little Manatee River compared with the Alafia River. The data indicate that the dominant source of sedimentary organic matter appears to be allocthonous (external) in the Alafia river and autochthonous (internal) in the Little Manatee river. Sedimentary organic matter composition can be a potential tool for evaluating watershed influences on river systems.
24321183|The Florida Everglades, an ecosystem suffering from decades of human impact, will undergo hydrologic and nutrient restoration through surface water discharges from Stormwater Treatment Areas (STAs). The potential for vegetation change in response to these restoration efforts, as well as natural disturbances, may be influenced by the existing seedbank composition. Soils in Water Conservation Area 2A, which will receive STA discharges, were cored to a depth of 5 cm in May 1998 and to 5, 10, and 20 cm in October 1998. Seedling emergence assays were used to characterize the seedbank of these soils in relation to existing vegetation and restoration target species. In both assays, Typha domingensis seedlings only emerged from the 05 cm layer of soils collected from Typha-dominated sites. In contrast, two species that are primary indicators of unimpacted wet prairie/slough habitat (Rhynchospora spp. and Eleocharis spp.) were far more abundant in Cladium jamaicense-dominated soils. No emergence of C. jamaicense seedlings occurred in either assay. In addition, to observe natural seedbank recruitment from nutrient-enriched soils, vegetation was manually cleared from four 16m2 field plots at three different Typha-dominated areas. In each plot, a virtually monospecific plant community comprised of Amaranthus australis became established. The results of this study indicate that seedbank recruitment of T. domingensis outside the boundaries of existing populations in this region may be quite limited. Furthermore, the contribution of the seedbank to restoration of Rhynchospora/Eleocharis wet prairie and C. jamaicense habitat may be negligible given that viable seeds of these species appear to be few and have a narrow distribution range in this region. The results are discussed in the context of vegetation management and restoration.
24321597|The present study describes the effectiveness of efforts to produce on larger scale a material called Cuprilig, which is the copper(II) derivative of Octolig, a commercially available immobilized ligand. Octolig consists of polyethylenediamine moieties covalently bound to a high-surface area silica gel (CAS Registry number = 404899-06-5). Cuprilig is useful for removing from water arsenate, orthophosphate, nitrate, nitrite, perchlorate, and several other anions. Cuprilig, for example, is able to remove arsenate (300 ppb, > 99% removal) effectively through column chromatography, and other similar successes have been demonstrated. The usefulness of such a material is evident, as is the need to be able to produce it on a larger scale. Reasonable calculations have suggested that commercial synthesis of Cuprilig would not be feasible because calculations would indicated that no more than 5 ppm copper(II) ion could be used or the reduced pH would limit effective chelation. Nevertheless, successful syntheses did occur using 4255 ppm Cu(II) as copper(II) sulfate pentahydrate. A working hypothesis is that an impurity with base properties was produced during the synthesis and was adsorbed onto the high-surface area of the silica gel present in Octolig. The present study examined the pH, TDS (total dissolved solids), and the visible spectra of fractions produced in the preparation of Cuprilig using column chromatography with Octolig and elution with 0.0670 M CuSO4.
24320424|McCarty Woods is a 2.2 ha tract located in the Brooksville Ridge region of west central Florida. It forms the western portion of the larger Chinsegut Hill and Robins Memorial Forest Preserve. The vegetation of McCarty Woods is southern mixed hardwoods dominated by Quercus michauxii (Basket Oak), Q. virginiana (Live Oak), Q. nigra (Water Oak), Carpinus caroliniana (Hornbeam), Liquidambar styraciflua (Sweetgum) and other hardwoods. The site has not burned since before 1932. The vascular flora of the site includes 82 species in 45 families. Twenty seven tree species occur on the site and approximately 38 % of these are known to occur in southern mixed hardwood forests. McCarty Woods supports 55 species of understory shrubs, vines, and herbs, three of which are rare species currently listed as threatened or endangered.
24319558|Expatriates from upland streams found in the lower Mississippi River main channel may have illustrated the process of "tributary hopping" (ie., a stepwise movement from one habitable tributary to the next via the main channels of large rivers). Two types of tributary hopping exist: an active method, stimulated by behavioral mechanisms, entailing a brief migration; and a passive method, involving "waif immigrants" or floodborne transients. An analysis of Mississippi Embayment geology suggests that a large scale dispersal took place in the lower Mississippi River during Pleistocene glacial periods whereas tributary hopping by passive (waif dispersal) and active mechanisms occurred during the middle and late Pleistocene interglacial periods.
24320660|A 2.02-km section of gas pipeline trench was surveyed six times from 15 September through 10 October 1994, in Gadsden County, Florida, for trapped wildlife. The trench traversed old field upland pine habitat, upland hardwood forest, slope forest, and bottomland forest. The dimensions and effectiveness of the trench at trapping animals varied due to differences in digging equipment, soil characteristics, extent of erosion and sedimentation, and flooding. The trench captured a minimum of 459 amphibians (19 species) and 12 reptiles (seven species). Six species of hylid frogs accounted for 67% of all captures, and the most commonly captured species were Cope's gray treefrog (Hyla chrysoscelis), squirrel treefrog (H. squirella), and bird-voiced treefrog (H. avivoca). About 80% of all anuran captures were immature animals, whereas mostly adult salamanders were captured. Noteworthy captures were two four-toed salamanders (Hemidactylium scutatum), which are rarely encountered in Florida. The only mortality observed was seven amphibians, but other dead animals may have been buried in sediments or under water. This trench proved to be an effective means of sampling amphibian communities, especially treefrogs, which are under-sampled by the technique of drift fencing. Tracks of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and medium-sized carnivores were observed in the trench. The only mammal observed was a dead deer fawn.
24320301|Iron, copper and zinc were monitored in the water, sediments, and 4 species of fish of the upper St. Johns River, Florida. Surface water concentrations of total iron commonly exceeded 300 ug/l, the standard established by the Florida Department of Environmental Regulation for waters intended for public consumption (Class I waters). Total iron levels in the upper St. Johns River are regulated by a series of interacting natural processes such as the ironphosphate cycle, inputs from nonartesian groundwater or bank seepage, complexation with dissolved organic compounds, increased land runoff during perids of high flow, and resuspension of bottom sediments during periods of increased discharge or wind mixing. Groundwater inputs in the headwaters region due to agricultural irrigation practices, in addition to runoff and groundwater seepage into the drainage canals entering the river, have significantly increased its trace metal content. Elevated trace metal levels were also found in sediments and fish tissue in the river. The results of multiple regression analyses indicated that as the extent of urban activity increases in undeveloped watersheds of the upper St. Johns River, total copper and total zinc concentrations in the surface waters of the watershed can also be expected to increase.
24319513|Fossil specimens of Caecum have been recovered in well-cuttings from the Miocene of Florida. The specimens are identified and described primarily by their microarchitectural patterns.
24319690|Two-stage cluster sample design was applied in the random digit dialing (RDD) household survey in Florida. The pilot survey in Sarasota County showed that this method reduced the proportion of unused numbers sharply; the chances of reaching eligible numbers were 31 % in the primary sample and 44 % in the cluster sample. The survey also showed that an evening interview had a better completion rate than did a daytime interview.
24321934|The Perdido Key beach mouse (Peromyscus polionotus trissyllepsis) is a federally endangered rodent with a highly restricted geographic range. Minimally invasive sampling (tail tips) provides small amounts of starting tissue, which when combined with high levels of inbreeding, requires large genotyping panels in order to resolve patterns of relationships, dispersal, and other phenomena of interest. We screened 74 published Peromyscus spp. loci and demonstrated the utility of whole genome amplification (WGA) to produce repeatable genotypes. Of 74 screened loci, 50 were successfully amplified, and 24 were variable in captive beach mice. Screening of a subset of 23 mono- and polymorphic loci on wild Perdido Key mice revealed that 1) additional variation exists in 11 monomorphic colony loci, and 2) that substantial genetic variation may be missing from the captive colony, relative to the wild, source population. Together these resources should provide valuable genetic information on the repatriation, breeding success and dispersal in Perdido Key beach mouse populations.
24321153|Wildlife mortality was documented for one year on a 3.2 km section of U.S. Highway 441 in Alachua County, Florida, prior to construction of a wildlife barrier/underpass system. A total of 1,821 vertebrates, representing 62 species, were recorded dead on the road during 105 sampling days; counts were conducted weekly for 52 consecutive weeks. The most common species killed were green treefrog (Hyla cinerea; n = 296), southern leopard frog (Rana sphenocephala; 230), Florida water snake (Nerodia fasciata pictiventris; 194). pig frog (Rana grylio; 145), and green water snake (Nerodia floridana; 119). U.S. Highway 441 at Paynes Prairie appears to have one of the highest levels of snake road mortality ever reported; dead snakes were obseiwed at a rate of 1.854 individuals per km surveyed (336 km surveyed/623 snakes killed).
24321271|We captured 30 spotted seatrout, Cynoscion nebulosus, from J.N. 'Ding' Darling National Wildlife Refuge in 1998 in order to determine the concentration of mercury in muscle tissue. We compared mercury levels found in this study with mercury levels found in C. nebulosus captured in 1990 in the refuge. We also regressed concentration of mercury against specimen wet weight for 1998 data. We found that the average concentration of mercury in C. nebulosus (0.235 ppm, wet weight) in 1998 was significantly less than the average in 1990 (0.396 ppm, wet weight). No significant relationship existed between mercury concentration and specimen whole body wet weight. Differences in laboratory procedures and/or reductions in natural or anthropogenic inputs of mercury may have contributed to the reduction in mercury concentrations between the two years.
24319474|Procambrus erythrops, described from Suwannee County, is a detritus feeder inhabiting the higher energy zones of the cave.
24321940|Global sea level has been rising for the last 20,000+ years at rates ranging from 0.33.3 feet/century, and has submerged Florida's pre-Holocene coast by over 400 feet. The instrumental record started in Key West in 1845, but had many gaps until 1913, after which it is nearly continuous; the rate of rise there since 1913 is 0.740.03 feet per century. For the ensemble of all other near-century-long Florida records (Pensacola [0.71 feet/century], Cedar Key [0.53 feet/century], St. Petersburg [0.82 feet/century], Miami Beach [0.75 feet/century], Mayport [0.77 feet/century], and Fernandina Beach [0.65 feet/century]) the average rate of rise is 0.730.09 feet per century. At Key West during 19132013, there is no statistically significant evidence of accelerated sea level rise. Guidance for estimating future sea level from NOAA and from the US Army Corps of Engineers relies on using projections of global sea level adapted to a local site; such federal criteria for Florida would place sea level in 2100 anywhere from 0.76.6 feet above the 2001 level; United Nations projections are between 0.93.3 feet by 2100.
24320307|From early in this century, those involved in the Criminal Justice System concluded that it should be approached as a discipline and subject to the empiricism of cause and effect. However, coupled with certain erroneous presumptions, the failure to adequately define the problem at the outset has prevented agreement and conclusion on objectives, and efforts undertaken seem at times to aggravate the crime problem. Construction of an etiological typology of criminal offenders uncovers the real objectives for a Criminal Justice System and shows what strategies should be developed. A typology recognizing crime as a manifestation of normal, conformist conduct as well as deviant conduct leads to the conclusion that there are multiple objectives to be achieved by a Criminal Justice System. These objectives, then, show the need for strategies of support, management, deterrence, retribution, and protection.
24319556|Psammaquents occur in lower marsh and Haplaquods in the upper marsh sites. Sulfaquents were found at the mouth of the Suwannee River.
24321163|Hurricanes drastically affect shallow coral reef ecosystems by physically removing and fragmenting biological organisms, or scouring them as massive amounts of sand and rubble are displaced. This study assesses the impact of a Category I hurricane on populations of the weedy brown macroalga Dictyota in the Florida Keys, and considers the fate of the algal biomass shredded and displaced by subsequent water flow. In October 1999, Hurricane Irene decimated Dictyota spp. populations, however fragments created remained viable despite their traumatic generation, settled and formed attachment rhizoids within 2 days, and then began to grow. This study shows that a large-scale physical disturbance (hurricane) can be beneficial to weedy, opportunistic, asexually reproducing species, such as Dictyota, that form rhizoidal attachments faster than other macroalgal species, and can lead to large-scale population recovery within weeks.
24321478|This paper describes water column characteristics in a shallow bay environment surrounding an intensive clam aquaculture use area. Parameters included in the study were nutrient content (nitrite + nitrate, ammonium, total nitrogen, soluble reactive phosphorus and total phosphorus), algal abundance (chlorophyll a), sediment load (total suspended solids), and water clarity (turbidity). Spatial gradients across the aquaculture use area were examined to explore the possible role of the use area as a source or sink of the water column constituents. The results show higher concentrations of most parameters on the east side of the use area than the west side, with the exception of ammonium. Ammonium concentrations were consistently higher upstream of the use area than downstream on both ebb and flood tides. Based on these observations, the Alligator Harbor aquaculture use area may be a source or sink of nutrient, and particulate load within the bay, depending on the tidal cycle, and potentially other hydrologie conditions. By contrast, the use area appears to be a consistent source of ammonium.
24320706|Coastal shark species generally utilize shallow, inshore bays and estuaries as nursery grounds. These are typically areas of high productivity where juvenile sharks find abundant prey and where they are less exposed to predation by large sharks. Human activities in these nursery ground areas can lead to a significant impact on the juvenile sharks, primarily in the form of habitat degradation and fishing mortality. In Tampa Bay, fishing mortality of sharks is both direct from the recreational fishery as well as indirect in the form of bycatch by recreational anglers and commercial gill-netters, especially in the mackerel fishery near the mouth of the bay. Tampa Bay serves as a nursery area for most of the year for several resident species of sharks and as a seasonal nursery area for several transient species. In the past two years, we have captured 943 sharks of ten different species, including newborns of four species and juveniles of nine species, in all areas of Tampa Bay, but the vast majority of these have been captured in the more pristine, less developed habitats of southern Tampa Bay where healthy grass flats appear to be very important as nursery ground habitat. Especially important are the grass flats in the area of Rattlesnake Key near the Manatee River, and the area between the Sunshine Skyway bridge and Coquina Key, including the Pinellas Point area.
24321548|The nutrient content and moisture availability of soils have the potential to influence the transition from seed to seedling. We investigated seedling emergence and growth of a shrub that has invaded many ecosystems in peninsular Florida, Brazilian pepper (Schinus terebinthifolius). We performed a laboratory experiment comparing two soil types (hammock vs. swamp) and two watering frequencies in a fully factorial design. We monitored seedling emergence weekly for eight weeks and measured seedling height at the end of the experiment. Two times as many seedlings emerged in swamp soil compared to hammock soil, and high watering frequency increased seedling emergence by approximately 10% in both soil types. The rate of seedling emergence changed over time, interacting with watering frequency and soil type. Seedling height increased with watering frequency, but was not different between soil types. Our results suggest that soil type, and to a lesser degree water availability, influence the establishment of Brazilian pepper in native plant communities in South Florida.
24320248|We used survey methods to characterize hypertension in a relatively isolated West Indian population. Results indicated that excellent discrimination between hospitalized and nonhospitalized hypertensives and controls was available using the following variables: age, gender, weight, family history, herb usage, salt intake, smoke intake, anxiety, and personal problems. These findings support previous work on high blood pressure in populations from other Western nations.
24319921|Sand pine scrub tends to burn only under extreme fire-weather conditions, thus exhibiting extreme (uncontrollable and unpredictable) fire behavior. The objective of this study was to develop a prescription to burn sand pine scrub under controlled conditions. A modified fuel model was developed to represent the sand pine scrub community. Using afire spread model to predict fire behavior, a prescription for burning this fuel type was written and tested on two fires, in the Yamato Scrub. The results of the burns suggest that an effective, safe means exists to burn sand pine scrub under controlled conditions.
24320508|The determination of elemental carbon (EC) in air particulate matter using optical methods assumes that EC is the only light-absorbing species; however, the presence of significant amounts of (colored) inorganic species would falsely elevate the measured EC concentration. Based on inlet characteristics of the sampling device and particle size distribution, the inorganic content of air particulate samples collected on filters varies significantly. This paper describes the magnitude of this effect for several sampling devices. The interference was found to be 10% or less, depending on the sampling device used.
24320556|Flavonoids from leafy branchlets of stressed and unstressed bald-cypress (Taxodium distichum (L.) L.C. Rich.) were compared using two dimensional paper chromatography. Plant material was collected from equivalent-aged mature individuals of bald-cypress growing in a single divided stand in St. Johns County, Florida. State Road 13, constructed in 1937, blocked normal drainage from the eastern portion of the cypress wetland resulting in an increase in the duration and depth of standing water. Interstitial water pH was lower and KCl-extractable aluminum was higher in the undrained site. Methanolic extracts from trees in the eastern and western parts of the population differed in that three putative flavonoids present on chromatograms from unstressed trees were not found in trees subjected to prolonged flooding and one flavonoid compound was found only in stressed trees.
24320293|Black Calabash, Amphitecna latifolia, is reported in northern Palm Beach County at the north end of Lake Worth, a range extension of more than 160 km north of any previously known population in Florida. This population may be the result of an early horticultural introduction or it may be native to the area.
24320205|Subsurface temperature data from 8 stations were obtained for 6 wk during the summer of 1978 to describe seasonal upwelling along the Atlantic coast of Florida just south of Cape Canaveral. Available data show one major upwelling event occurring during the first 3 wk of August. Bottom temperatures suggest that cool water advances rapidly toward the coast, and nearshore water cools by as much as 7C within 2 wk. A strong thermocline is maintained throughout the upwelling event. The available data base is inadequate to resolve the primary forcing mechanisms, but related studies suggest that upwelling may occur in response to the Florida Current as much as to the coastal wind field.
24320319|The gecko Hemidactylus brooki and the boa Epicrates f. fordi are recorded from Isla Saona, Repblica Dominicana, for the first time. Additional specimens of the iguanid lizard Anolis baleatus lineatacervix, which is endemic to Saona and was named on the basis of a single specimen, are described.
24321250|The first documented report of escolar chino off the U.S. Atlantic coast is presented. This record represents a modest extension to the known geographic distribution of the species; but it is nevertheless a new addition to the fishes known to occur in U.S. coastal waters. Morphometric and meristic data are given to enhance the brief original description. The escolar chino caught off Florida had slightly barbed canine teeth and more scales in the lateral line than the specimen described by Poey. Histological analysis revealed a female with regressed (or class 1) ovaries. The taxonomy of the escolar chino is briefly reviewed.
24320557|Significant amounts of dolomite (calcium magnesium carbonate) found in Florida phosphate deposits, south of those presently mined, are troublesome because of the problems caused by enhanced magnesium concentrations in the production of phosphoric acid through wet methods. The removal of dolomite from phosphate ore was studied using a buffer system, i.e., mixture of ammonium sulfate and carbonic acid. Two different sources of phosphate pebble were studied. Carbonic acid was supplied using excess carbon dioxide bubbled into standard solutions of ammonium sulfate. The quantity of magnesium was based on the analysis of leaching liquor by atomic absorption spectrometry. Experimental results showed that the calcium and magnesium were not leached in equimolar amounts as they would be if dolomite alone were the source of the ions; much more calcium was leached than magnesium. Concentrations of ammonium sulfate were varied from 0 to 1.0 M, and leaching increased at room temperature with increasing concentration of ammonium sulfate. Using 0.1 M ammonium sulfate, and changing the leaching temperature from 7 to 45C, we found that the amount of magnesium and calcium increased with temperature. Finally, the effect of pebble size (35-60 mesh and -230 mesh) was compared; with the smaller size pebbles (ca.-230 mesh), calcium was especially favored over magnesium. Implications are considered.
24321651|The objective of this research was to determine whether the survival and growth rate of transplanted seagrasses is hindered by sediment sulfide addition and bacterial community disruption. A microcosm experiment was designed to control for temperature, salinity, and light availability. Bare root transplanted seagrass shoots were exposed to one of four treatments; plus sulfide, plus autoclave; minus sulfide, plus autoclave; plus sulfide, unmanipulated (not autoclaved); and minus sulfide, unmanipulated. Bare root transplants had less than half the rate of growth of the control that was transplanted as a plug with sediments, demonstrating the sensitivity of root disturbance in Thalassia testudinum. Bare root transplants in autoclaved sediments grew slower than in unmanipulated sediments regardless of sulfide treatments. The greatest amount of extractable DNA was measured in bare root transplanted treatments that had not been autoclaved. Standard diversity indices along with a Bray-Curtis similarity index of Terminal Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism in a MDS were used to assess community composition. The MDS showed no significant differences, while comparisons of diversity indices indicated differences between transplants and control. The results support the conclusion that an intact sediment bacterial community increases transplant success, but the nature of the interaction (e.g., functional, structural) remains unclear.
24319935|Several specimens of the South American cichlid Geoghagus surinamensis were collected from a southeast Florida canal. Our collections and observations document the possible establishment of this exotic fish in Florida.
24321653|Six Mile Cypress Slough Preserve is an approximately 1100 ha cypress swamp, encircled by residential and commercial development and crossed by four highways. Road construction, land development, and water management have significantly reduced the historic watershed from over 14,500 ha to approximately 8500 ha. This reduction in watershed area, along with suppression of fire, proliferation of invasive exotic species, and past logging appears to have had a profound ecological impact on the swamp, resulting in suboptimal water depths and hydroperiods for the sustainable maintenance of the cypress forest. In 2006, Kevin Erwin Consulting Ecologist and Florida Gulf Coast University established a long-term monitoring program of hydrology and vegetation in the swamp. The objectives of the monitoring are to examine the dynamics of surface- and -ground water, and to examine the relationships between hydrology and vegetation dynamics. Preliminary analysis of the first two years of hydrologic monitoring illustrates the annual variability of hydroperiods, the fine spatial variance in rainfall inputs, and the impact of human activity on surface and groundwater levels in adjacent areas of the swamp. Future study includes examining the impact of large rainfall events, and correlating hydrology to vegetation to determine the likelihood of maintaining a cypress-dominated forest.
24320163|The Jack Dempsey, Cichlasoma octofasciatum, native to southern Mexico, Guatemala, Yucatan and Honduras, is reportedly established in Dade, Hillsborough and Brevard counties, Florida. In 1982, a population was found in a creek on the University of Florida campus, Alachua County, Florida. Collections and observations during 1982-1985 document this population's status and provide information on the biology of this species. This population represents the northernmost distribution known for Cichlasoma species in Florida.
24320585|Students enrolled in General Chemistry II at Brevard Community College were given assignments requiring the use of a computer and molecular modeling software in an effort to improve their understanding of molecular geometry. These assignments were given as part of a unit on organic chemistry and involved (a) learning the computer's operation, (b) becoming familiar with the basics of molecular modeling, and (c) constructing organic molecules such as amino acids, isomeric forms of hydrocarbons, and steroids. Verbal feedback, evaluations, and classroom observations showed that college freshman students were not only able to master the software and perform the assignments, but showed increased understanding of molecular geometry and heightened enthusiasm for both chemistry and computers.
24321992|We provide observations and a photograph of copulating peninsula mole skinks, Plestiodon egregius onocrepis, in the Ocala National Forest, Marion County, Florida, during March 2010. This is the first vernal record of mating for this autumnal-winter breeding subspecies and the first field observation and photograph of copulation.
24320753|The Florida legislature has made it mandatory that lands disturbed for mining purposes should be reclaimed. Production of wheat [Triticum aestivum (L.) em. Thell] and triticale ( Triticosecale Wittmack) on phosphatic clay settling areas (> 48,000 ha) in south central Florida, could be economically beneficial to the state's livestock industry, while meeting the legislative land reclamation mandate. An experiment was conducted during the 1987 and 1988 growing seasons to study the development and yields of 'Florida 301' wheat and 'Florida 201' triticale, when planted early (mid October to November) and late (mid December to January) under Florida subtropical climatic conditions. The vegetative period averaged 15.5 and 5.5 days more for early planted wheat and triticale, respectively, compared to late planted treatments. Temperature during the growing season was approximately 3C higher at initiation of reproductive developments for late planted treatments vs early planted treatments. This resulted in an average of 14.5 and 15 days reduction of the grain filling period (GFP) of late planted treatments for wheat and triticale, respectively. Under the subtropical conditions of south central Florida, late planting subjected both wheat and triticale crops to higher temperatures, especially during the period of reproductive development. This caused reduction in the duration of grain fill for these crops when planted late in the growing season. Grain yields for late planted treatments were reduced approximately 44 percent for wheat and 48 percent, for triticale compared to early planting for the 1988 growing season. The crops can be grown in the phosphatic clay environment although higher temperatures may reduce yields if planted late in the season. Better yields can be achieved by planting in late November or early December compared to planting in January.
24321234|Human-induced changes in hydrology and nutrients are believed to be responsible for observed shifts in the remnant Everglades landscape from a sawgrass-slough mosaic to one increasingly dominated by emergent vegetation. We examined how changes in food availability caused by this vegetative shift might affect the growth and survival of the Florida applesnail (Pomacea paludosa), a key prey item for many native species. The quality of bulk samples of applesnail foods from slough (benthic periphyton) and sawgrass (macrophyte detritus) were analyzed for nutritional content (% ash, carbohydrate, protein, and lipid content). Newly hatched snails were reared in microcosms containing either periphyton or detritus, and changes in aperture length, shell length, and wet weight were measured after 30 days to calculate growth rates. Bulk periphyton was predicted to be the poorer quality food due to its high ash content and low protein content. But, increases in aperture length, shell length and wet weight were more than 2-fold greater for snails grown in periphyton as opposed to detrital microcosms. Significantly higher growth rates in periphyton microcosms suggests that slough habitats are the preferred environment for juvenile applesnail development. However, growth in both treatments showed that juveniles can assimilate plant detritus when periphyton availability is limited.
24320961|Aqueous etching wastes from the electronic industry contain heavy metal ions such as chromium(VI), chromium(III) and copper(II). In remediation of this waste, chromium(VI) should be reduced to chromium(III), and then removed via precipitation or extraction. This report describes results of chromium(VI) reduction using water-soluble sugars (sucrose and glucose) for remediation of aqueous etching wastes from this industry. In strong acid solutions (pH <1.0), the reaction was first-order with respect to chromium(VI) concentration in the presence of excess sugar. The evidence shows that glucose can be oxidized into carbon dioxide eventually and that sugars (and probably other materials readily available in Florida) are very efficient and economical in chromium(VI) reduction. Sugar concentration, pH, and temperature affected the rate of reduction.
24319985|Luidia clathrata is gonochoric. This is a report of a single incidence of hermaphorditismfrom more than 2000 individuals examined during the reproductive seasons of 1974-1979. The gonads are serial arborescent sac-like structures that are lined with germinal cells. Each gonad typically has four or five acini. In the hermaphroditic gonad both oocytes and sperm arose from the same area along the basal lamina. In some acini oocytes tended to dominate while in others sperm were predominant. In acini that contained large numbers of both gametes the sperm completely encircled the oocytes. There was no evidence of self fertilization. This hermaphroditic individual was part of a nutritional study. That only a single individual showed hermaphroditism indicates the tight control of sexual differentiation in this species.
24321194|Landuse in watersheds has a large impact on the quality of water and sediment in adjacent bays and estuaries. Changes in pore water nutrients and sediment composition due to anthropogenic impacts to the surrounding watershed may potentially influence the growth and biomass of rooted, estuarine vegetation. This study examined spatial patterns in growth and biomass of the seagrass Thalassia testudinum during the early spring growing season in an estuary with a highly disturbed watershed (Biscayne Bay, FL). In addition, the plants' response to nutrient addition via fertilizer spikes as a proxy to increased pore water nutrient levels was evaluated. Spatial differences in biomass occurred among the four sites with those on the western side of the bay that receive nutrient inputs from terrestrial run off having greater biomass per m2 than the two sites on the eastern side of the bay. The addition of nutrients via fertilizer spikes did not influence biomass, but the production of new plant tissue (mm2/day) as a measure of growth was increased by an average of 45% with the addition of fertilizer spikes at all sites. The results indicate that the structure (biomass) of these subtropical T. testudinum meadows in an estuary with a highly disturbed watershed did not change with short-term nutrient addition, but the function of the meadows was altered through enhanced production.
24320343|Documents describing the Indian River marine turtle fishery, which flourished in the late 1800s, are the only source of information concerning lagoonal turtle populations prior to 1978. The primary object of the fishery, which declined after 1900, was the green turtle, Chelonia mydas. The other important species in the system, the loggerhead turtle (Caretta caretta) is mentioned briefly in the early reports. Studies of these 2 species in the northern segment of the Indian River lagoon system were carried out from July 1976 to September 1981. Turtles were captured in large-mesh tangle nets and during hypothermic stunning episodes in the winters of 1977 and 1981. The presence of Eretmochelys imbricata and Lepidochelys kempi in the system is recorded for the first time. A total of 205 C. caretta and 199 C. mydas was captured, providing a basis for the characterization of the 2 populations. Loggerhead turtles of the system are about twice as large (weight x: 43.7 kg; CLSL x: 65.8 cm) as green turtles (weight x: 18.8 kg; CLSL x: 48.2 cm), but virtually all green turtles and 95 % or more of the loggerheads are immature. Indian River lagoons are "developmental habitats," in the sense of Carr et al. (1978).
24320561|Bis-(-diketones) are quadridentate ligands and have a broad spectrum of uses, including uses as biologically active compounds and liquid crystals. Compounds of the type [(RCO)2CH]2CHR' have been synthesized by an aldol condensation followed by Michael addition. This work reports the synthesis of 1,1,3,3-tetra-(2-naphthoyl)-propane by this procedure.
24321672|Previous studies on salinity tolerance of Ophiophragmus filograneus have documented its ability to acclimate to a wide range of salinities in the laboratory and to acclimatize to short-term natural reductions in salinity. In all cases, salinities below 10 were lethal within a few weeks of exposure. Recent long-term changes in hydrology have exposed a dense population of O. filograneus in the Banana River lagoon to 3 yr of salinities between 10 and 20. The burrowing response of animals subjected to acute exposure was tested in the present study at salinities of 8, 10, 12, 14 (ambient), 19, and 24. After almost 6 wk of continuous exposure, animals at 14, 19, and 24 had fully acclimated, although all animals showed signs of stress. Those at 12 still had elevated burrowing times after 6 wk. Animals at 10 survived, but many did not burrow within the allotted time (7 min) for each trial. None at 8 burrowed nor survived more than 15 d. Long-term exposure to low salinity does not extend the tolerance of O. filograneus: it has a lower lethal limit of about 8, a limit that might produce local extirpation if current approaches to lagoon management do not change.
24319695|About 13,500 living species of animals are deposit feeders. Deposit feeding is most common in coelomate animals, buta few species of small body size among the pseudocoelomates are also deposit feeders. Deposit feeding was probably the last of the basic types of feeding to arise in animals.
24319449|MacArthur and Wilson proposed a species equilibrium model of insular colonization. The applicability and generality of this model were tested using artificial fresh-water ponds as islands. All organisms large enough to be distinguished at 100 were monitored. Colonization, immigration and extinction rate curves are shown to be consistent with the model proposed by MacArthur and Wilson. Apparent non-interactive equilibrium was reached in 25 to 30 days with a turnover rate of between 3 and 5 species per day. The modifications proposed by Simberloff were also found to be consistent with the results of this study.
24319877|A survey of adults in Florida was conducted in 1981 to isolate the sources of support or nonsupport for science and technology within the general public. We report the distribution of support, the demographic correlates of support, and the level of support for specific policy issues. Generally, supporters were of higher socioeconomic status and more informed, but otherwise indistinguishable from other segments of the population. The most hostile were characterized as being "born again" Christians in terms of religious beliefs.
24321154|The black spiny-tailed iguana (Ctenosuara similis) was introduced onto Gasparilla Island in southwestern peninsular Florida ca. 30 years ago. Since then, this exotic species has undergone both natural and human-mediated range expansion, and it is presently found in Placido, Cape Haze, Gulf Cove, Cayo Costa, Keewaydin Island, and Little Marco Island. Although C. similis is primarily herbivorous, it will feed opportunistically on small animals, including insects, crabs, rodents, fishes, nestling birds, bird eggs, and hatchling sea turtles. Because of the possible ecological impacts of C. similis on Florida's native flora and fauna, population monitoring and/or eradication efforts should be conducted on C. similis.
24320632|The reproductive cycle of the Mediterranean gecko was studied from one site in south-central Florida. Egg laying took place between May and August. Sexual maturity of both sexes was possible within the first year at similar body sizes. Sex ratio of the annual sample was 1:1. Comparisons with Texas and Louisiana populations revealed great overlap in reproductive cycles despite geographic differences. The seasonally restricted reproductive cycle of this species in southern Florida may have contributed to a decline in its distribution and abundance as a result of competition with other recently established and rapidly dispersing hemidactylines that exhibit greater fecundity.
24321055|Various types of shoreline stabilization methods have been used in the Indian River Lagoon to prevent erosion caused by wave action. These include: vertical seawalls, smooth revetments, riprap revetments (all collectively referred to as hardened shorelines), and to a lesser extent, vegetated shorelines. It has been widely assumed that hardened shorelines are detrimental to the environment due to a scouring effect caused by backwash from wave action. The results of an extensive search of english-language literature indicate that (1) there is no published evidence linking hardened shorelines to a reduction in seagrass distribution or abundance, and, (2) in the conditions found in Indian River Lagoon, the theoretical scouring associated with vertical seawalls is limited to approximately 12 meters seaward from the wall for vertical seawalls, and considerably less for smooth and riprap revetments. Our field studies indicate that the presence of seagrasses adjacent to all types of shorelines, whether hardened or vegetated, is similar. The lack of seagrasses which typically occurs in the zone between 05 meters offhore must be due to some other factor or factors.
24319456|Ophiactis rubropoda, sp. nov., is distinguished by having six arms, one pair of oral papillae, 4-5 arm spines, transversely ellipsoid arm plates, disk spinelets in some specimens, and a red pigment in the water vascular system.
24321566|Bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) are well-known inhabitants of the Indian River Lagoon (IRL) estuary system. In recent years, an increase in stranded animals, concurrent with biological and anthropogenic threats have created concerns about the stability of this population. The objectives of this study were to analyze data collected from stranded IRL dolphins (19772005) to: 1) evaluate and understand stranding trends temporally and spatially, 2) examine age and sex-specific mortality patterns, and 3) evaluate trends of human-related dolphin mortalities. A total of 834 dolphins stranded in the lagoon system from 19772005. The historical average was 28.8 ( 2.48) dolphin strandings per year. We found two years with unusually high numbers of strandings, in 2000 (n = 59) and 2001 (n = 61). A total of 391 males, 292 females and 151 dolphins of undetermined sex stranded during the study. Strandings occurred more frequently in spring and summer (X2 = 70.96, df = 3, p < 0.0001). As long-lived, top level predators, IRL dolphin health may be representative of the overall health of this system. These baseline data are essential to management and conservation efforts for the IRL dolphin population and represent the most comprehensive analysis of mortality trends for IRL dolphins.
24319959|The creek chubsucker, Erimyzon oblongus, was recorded from the Escambia River drainage of Florida in 1954. This still constitutes the only record of the species from the state. Although the species was subsequently found to occur in a limited portion of the Chattahoochee River system of Alabama, there have been no other records from the Escambia or other closely adjacent eastern Gulf slope drainages of Alabama or Florida. The two specimens on which the original Escambia drainage record was based have been found, upon re-examination, to be the sharpfin chubsucker, Erimyzon tenuis. E. oblongus should thus be deleted from the Florida and Escambia drainage lists.
24320152|New specimens of Glyptotherium floridanum from the Florida peninsula confirm the conspecific identity of the Rancholabrean population of glyptodonts across the Gulf Coast and southern Atlantic coastal plain. Newly recognized osteological traits in the mandible of G. floridanum include bulbous pits in the alveoli for the teeth, and grooves on the outer surface that mark the position of hair follicles that were embedded in bone. The cervical vertebrae in the new specimens are similar to those of G. floridanum from the Texas Gulf Coast, and distinct from those of ancestral species. The caudal vertebrae and caudal armor were simple, like those of G. texanum and G. arizonae, without development of extensive fusion of the terminal caudal rings and without terminal spines at the tip of the armor.
24321148|The benthic macroinvertebrate community composition and selected water and sediments physico-chemical parameters at 15 permanent sampling stations in northeast Lake Jesup, central Florida, were studied monthly from December 1996 to December 1997. Crustacea (primarily Ostracoda) were numerically dominant (mean 3,645/m2), followed by Oligochaeta (898/m2), Gastropoda (mostly Tryonia aequicostata 898/m2), Chironomidae larvae (predominantly Glyptotendipes paripes 383/m2), Chaoboridae larvae (112/m2) and Hirudinea (107/m2). Ordination analysis (CCA and variation partitioning) showed that month of sampling and sampling station together explained 64% of benthic community variability; sampling station explained 45% and sampling month 19% of variation. Significant density differences of various taxa were noted between sampling stations, but not between months of sampling. Clustering of benthic community by using TWINSPAN revealed differences between sand and soft organic sediments. CCA indicated sediment type as the most important environmental factor. The highest biomass and species number were recorded on sand substrate, with Isopoda, Nematoda, Polypedilum spp. larvae and Glyptotendipes paripes larvae as the typical inhabitants of sand sediment, whereas Tanypodinae larvae, Chaoboridae larvae and Tryonia aequicostata were typical for soft muck sediment.
24320750|Zooplankton were monitored in Banana Lake between January, 1990 and March, 1992 to evaluate the impact of lake restoration by hydraulic dredging. Zooplankters were collected on a monthly basis at eight stations using an 8.1 L Kemmerer water sampler. The samples were concentrated by straining the samples through a #20 nylon bolting cloth Zooplankton net. Microscopic enumeration was employed to determine abundance of rotifers and microcrustaceans. Dredging was conducted within Banana Lake between August, 1990 and August, 1991. During and after dredging, all species of zooplankters had decreasing trends except for Asplanchna sp., a predatory rotifer. Most species started to decline in January, 1991 and by October, 1991 all of the cladocerans and copepods had disappeared. Recovery had begun by March, 1992.
24321945|Despite the significant value of the southeastern United States' red drum (Sciaenops ocellatus) fishery, there is a lack of clinical blood chemistry data. This was the first study to assess plasma glucose values as an indicator of stress response to evaluate variation and the effect of reproductive activity for wild adult red drum in Florida. Red drum (n=126) were collected from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Kennedy Space Center waters during three reproductive periods in 2011. Samples were obtained from the branchial vessels of the gill arch. Plasma glucose levels were significantly different among reproductive periods, with the highest mean values recorded during the spawning period, September-October (38.23 mg / dL  10.0). The glucose range was 1769 mg / dL. Glucose values were lower during all three periods than previous values recorded for cultured or captive red drum studies. This may indicate that fish from this population were under less stress than other populations previously sampled.
24320580|The reproductive cycle of the Indo-Pacific gecko, Hemidactylus garnotii, was studied in southern Florida from June 1991 to January 1993. Lizards were sexually mature at 49 mm SVL. Egglaying took place every month of the year and at least three clutches were produced annually. Year round reproduction may be added to the list of reproductive traits which make H. garnotii the most fecund and widespread species of the hemidactyline geckoes currently found in southern Florida.
24321039|Four species of Hemidactylus geckos have been introduced into Florida. Presently, only the Indo-Pacific (H. garnotii) and Mediterranean (H. turcicus) geckos occur in northern peninsular Florida; however, their distributions and ecological status are poorly known. We combined records from the literature, systematic collections, and field surveys to summarize the distributions of H. garnotii and H. turcicus in northern peninsular Florida. Herein, we document 16 previously unreported county records and one significant distributional record for these two species.
24319437|Reproductive cycles of the shrew, Blarina brevicauda, and three rodents, Peromyseus gossypinus, Ochrotomys nuttalli and Sigmodon hispidus, were examined from lands of the ERDA Savannah River Plant near Aiken, South Carolina. The information was collected from 1955 to 1973 and all species demonstrated bimodal reproductive cycles with peaks of activity in the spring and fall. Sigmodon hispidus and P. gossypinus had an equal intensity of effort during both seasons while B. brevicauda had a greater spring effort and O. nuttalli a greater fall effort.
24321394|Recreational tournaments for swordfish (Xiphias gladius) existed in the Florida Straits between 1977 and 1983 before disappearing due to low catch rates and an overexploitation of the stock. The first recent swordfish tournament occurred in 2001 off southeast Florida with 13 participating vessels. In 2002, three swordfish tournaments were observed and anglers were interviewed to determine catch and gear characteristics of the re-established recreational fishery. A total of 156 vessels participated in these three tournaments, catching 112 swordfish and hooking an additional 48 animals. The combination of the recovery of the North Atlantic swordfish stock and the continuation of the 2001 closure of the Florida Straits to commercial pelagic longline fishing gear is expected to result in the continued expansion of the southeast Florida recreational swordfish fishery.
24319550|A median lip projection was found on 2 Carpiodes cyprinus from the Apalachicola River, Florida.
24320256|Due to its phyletic position among the selachians, its relative abundance in Florida coastal waters, and its unusual adaptability to laboratory conditions, the juvenile lemon shark is an excellent model for studies of the sensory biology of the "typical" shark. Our investigations of the physiological optics of this shark's eye have resulted in a mathematical model, or schematic eye, for the species. This optical model is centered around an ellipsoidal lens of high overall equivalent refractive index (1.664) and principal power (140 diopters), and yet all data indicate these animals to be hypermetropic (far-sighted) by about 3 diopters underwater, with no evidence of accommodation. Using the schematic eye, optical limitations on spatial vision of this shark are predictable. In addition to discussing the optics, we briefly review recent findings on the anatomical and functional organization of the retina, as well as psychophysical measurements of absolute visual threshold, in the juvenile lemon shark.
24319687|Infrared absorption spectra were run on humic substances from Lake Apopka sediment samples and compared with spectra from citrus and muck farm humic substances from sediment in the surrounding drainage basin, and also with spectra from autochthonous plankton humic substances. The 1540 cm-1 and 1650 cm-1 peaks in the plankton and lake sediment samples, in addition to other spectra similarities, indicate that plankton is the probable precursor of lake sediment humic substances. The absorption bands at 1650 cm-1 and 1540 cm-1 are thought to be due to peptide bonds in protein, with amide I absorption occuring at 1650 cm-1 and amide II absorption at 1540 cm-1. The spectra from the muck farm soil and citrus soil differ to a greater extent from the spectrum of the lake sediment than do the plankton spectra.
24321480|During the summer of 2002, we studied the benthic omnivore turtle guild inhabiting freshwater canals in central Broward County, Florida. Sampling with baited hoop traps, we captured 52 Chelydra serpentina, 34 Kinosternon baurii, and 4 Sternotherus odoratus in 576 trap nights. Throughout the canal system, C. serpentina was the dominant species in shallow (<1 m maximum depth) areas, while K. baurii dominated the deeper (>1 m) areas. Secondary sex ratios were 1:1 for all three species, but population size structure data indicate that impaired recruitment may threaten the long-term persistence of both C. serpentina and K. baurii.
24321238|Chemical analyses of green vs. decayed (fully-necrotic) leaf tissues of Thalassia testudinum revealed significant differences in mean ( 1 S.D.) percent dry weight/wet weight, 12.1  6.9% (green) vs. 23.1  16.6% (decayed), and in mean molar C:N ratio, 19.0  4.2 (green) vs. 39.2  8.8 (decayed). Conversely, there was an insignificant difference in mean in mean soluble protein, 8.2  1.1 mg/ml (green) vs. 6.8  5.0 mg/ml (decayed). In an amino acid derivatization analysis using HPLC, we detected 12 amino acids; valine and serine were detected in decayed leaves but not in green leaves, while proline and methionine were detected in green leaves but not in decayed leaves.
24319473|Hydrilla (Hydrilla verticillata Royle) was cultured in modified Hoagland's nutrient solutions having various concentrations of mineral elements. Maximum increase in dry wt occurred at 10% of basic Hoagland's concentrations of all elements with added sodium bicarbonate. Tissue contents of P and Ca were directly related to solution levels of these mineral elements; K accumulation appeared independent of solution concentration. Addition of NaHCO3 reduced P accumulation, but had no effect on Ca or K accumulation. Hydrilla appeared to utilize bicarbonate as a carbon source for photosynthesis.
24321009|Vehicle-related mortality (roadkill) of vertebrate wildlife was recorded during a 24-mo. survey along 48-km (30-mi.) of paved highway that traveled through urbanized, agricultural, and native landscapes in southwest Florida. We recorded 1,035 vertebrate roadkills, with mammals accounting for the greatest percentage (54%) of total roadkill and raccoons (Procyon Iotor) and other medium-sized mammals being the most frequently recorded species. Roadkill of herptiles (15%), which primarily were snakes, and unidentified species (20%) were recorded at similar rates and birds (11%) had the fewest roadkills. Roadkill did not vary due to differences in traffic speed and volume, but did vary by land use with lowest roadkill recorded in urbanized areas and all rural land use categories having similar levels of roadkill. Roadkill varied by season for herptiles and unidentified species and corresponded to Florida's annual cycle of wet and dry seasons and the availability of standing water in roadside ditches and pasture wetlands. Landscape features associated with human-made structures at two locations along the route had significantly greater roadkill than expected. These included an area adjacent to a wildlife exclusion fence, where roadkill of herptiles and unidentified species was elevated, but the reasons for higher roadkill at this location were not clear. The greatest number of total roadkills, primarily mammals, was recorded in association with a canal crossing and included 12% of all mammal roadkills recorded during this study.
24321041|Fecal specimens from 50 patients in the Province of Chalatenango, El Salvador were examined for parasites using zinc sulfate flotation of fresh feces and by direct smears of feces collected in Parasafe, Proto-Fix or Unifix fixatives following trichrome or acid-fast staining. The overall prevalence of parasitic infections in the patients was 64% (32/50). Two parasites, Entamoeba histolytica/dispar and Ascaris lumbricoides were found in large numbers, 20% (10/50) and 36% (18/50), respectively, and were used for the comparative studies. Trichrome staining of direct smears was most effective in identifying E. histolytica/dispar in specimens of all three fixatives and acid-fast staining did not reveal any amoeba. Ascaris lumbricoides eggs were consistently found using all three fixatives and with both staining methods. Zinc sulfate flotation of fresh feces was most effective for identification of A. lumbricoides eggs and trichrome staining of feces collected in Parasafe, Proto-fix or Unifix fixatives for the detection of E. histolytica/dispar.
24319611|Fifteen species of late Pleistocene and Recent mammals were recovered from St. Marks River localities. The western-most record in Florida for the extinct bog lemming, Synaptomys australis, is the only extinct species at a St. Marks locality otherwise yielding only Recent species.
24321110|The seasonal abundance of adult Diachlorus ferrugatus (F.) in Monroe County, Florida, was determined by collections in carbon dioxide-baited light traps. This species is most abundant from late May until early June, but may be encountered from mid-March until late August.
24320487|Litter biomass from biweekly basket collections was measured for seventeen months in two low hammocks in St. Lucie and Indian River Counties. A disturbed roadside habitat with both Quercus virginiana (live oak) and the exotic Grevillea robusta (silk oak) produced significantly more litter and exhibited higher variance among baskets and collection dates than an undisturbed hammock containing only Q. virginiana. Peak litterfall occurred in February at the disturbed site and more than one month later at the protected site 12 km distant. Differences between sites are probably attributable to differing species compositions and the relative importance of disturbance. Peak flowerfall lagged leaf fall by ca 1.5 months at each site.
24319984|Sea urchins (Lytechinus varigatus and Tripneustes ventricosus) were collected from a shallow, subtidal seagrass community in Biscayne Bay during Summer 1986. The population density of urchins within patches of seagrass was first estimated with quadrat sampling (mean = 0.54 urchins/m2). The statistical dispersion of urchins among quadrats was random. Density later was assessed by mark-recapture (nail polish was painted onto urchin spines). The Petersen estimate of density (0.47 urchins/m2) appeared to be in close agreement with the quadrat estimate, though the estimates were not statistically comparable.
24321993|The historic Everglades were defined by ridges, sloughs, tree islands, and flowing water. During the early to middle 20th Century, anthropogenic changes due to agricultural development and urbanization led to the creation of water conservation areas, disrupting the natural flow patterns. Restoration of the Everglades includes returning historic flows to portions of the remaining natural system, but there are no records of water velocities prior to man's influence. Constructed in 2003, the Loxahatchee Impoundment Landscape Assessment (LILA) was designed to provide a research platform for scientists to investigate the role of flow in the Everglades. This study had a dual purpose: to investigate and characterize flow patterns across a physical model of the Everglades at differing flow rates: to examine the capacity of the infrastructure of this physical model to generate specific flows across the landscape. It has been demonstrated that an overall flow of 5 cfs presents an optimal flow rate. An upstream flow rate of 8 cfs in LILA produced unpredicted flow patterns downstream that have relevance for Everglades flow restoration. At these high flow rates, shallow areas were short circuited, and the overall flow was unevenly distributed.
24319567|Reproductive data for 15 species of snakes in Florida are presented. The reproductive seasons of Coluber constrictor, Diadophis punctatus, Natrix fasciata, Thamnophis sauritus, and T. sirtalis are extended and may allow production of more than one annual clutch. The second known captive hatching of Florida Pituophis melanolencus is reported.
24319665|The absence of endemic Louisiana fishes may be attributed to historical and physiographic factors. The periodic inundation of the Mississippi Embayment by the Gulf of Mexico during early Pleistocene interglacial periods obliterated the freshwater ichthyofauna. Afterwards, the ample dispersal mechanisms available prevented isolation and subsequent speciation of fishes in Louisiana.
24322136|Amphibians have been shown to be important indicators for environmental change, particularly changes in water quality. The Southwest Florida Amphibian Monitoring Network was established in 2000 to collect long-term data on frog communities in southwest Florida. Twenty-two routes of 12 stops each are monitored monthly during the rainy season. Wind, temperature, humidity, sky condition, and habitat changes are recorded at each stop. Frog presence and abundance is indicated by calling intensity, which is tabulated using a three-level intensity code. Using data from the Network, frog communities were summarized, and factors that may explain differences in frog communities among sites and over time were investigated using measures of biological diversity, community classification, and community ordination. The data show an increased calling intensity in the exotic Cuban treefrog (Osteopilus septentrionalis), and a shift to native frog species requiring more permanent water. Continued monitoring may aid in understanding implications of altered hydroperiods and amphibian responses to restoration efforts. This type of citizen scientist database provides opportunities to investigate trends in environmental change on a landscape scale.
24319610|Water, sediment, and sand from recreational and other areas in the southern Biscayne Bay region were examined over a three month period (Sept.-Nov.) for the presence of both "indicator" and potentially pathogenic bacteria and yeasts. The Miami River was the most significant source of pollution (>105 total coliforms 100/ml); however, bathing beaches showed low densities of all microorganisms sought.
24320744|The phenology of pineywoods dropseed (Sporobolus junceus) after late winter and spring fires was evaluated. No significant relationship was found between basal area of pineywoods dropseed plants and the number of inflorescences produced per plant following the February fire; a significant but weak relationship was found in the plants following the May fire. Average basal diameter of plants at the February burn site (116.43 cm2) was significantly smaller than at the May burn site (185.91 cm2), possibly due to previous prescribed burns at the latter site. Following the May burn, pineywoods dropseed plants produced inflorescences and mature seed within seven to nine weeks of the fire.
24320489|Amphipods are often the most abundant macroinvertebrate associated with the exotic macrophyte waterhyacinth [Eichhornia crassipes (Mart.) Solms]. To determine the contribution of Hyalella azteca and Gammarus tigrinus to waterhyacinth decay, bags (202 um mesh) containing root or leaf litter were stocked at three densities (0, 5, and 15 per bag) and placed under waterhyacinth mats. Amphipods significantly increased (P<0.05) the rate of root and leaf decay. Decomposition rates (k values) ranged from 0.028 d-1 to 0.039 d-1 for leaf and from 0.008 d-1 to 0.011 d-1 for root detritus. Consumption was estimated at 0.081 mg dry leaf litter per mg dry amphipod on a daily basis. In addition to physical and chemical factors, the presence or absence of shredding amphipods may substantially influence the rate of waterhyacinth breakdown.
24321914|This paper documents the plant assemblage found in large constructed treatment wetlands built for Everglades restoration, the Stormwater Treatment Areas (STAs) in south Florida. Eighty vascular and macroalgae plant species were identified at marsh sites across all the STAs, while an additional 43 species were unique to the marsh-levee ecotone in STA-1W. The STA flora was dominated by herbaceous taxa (83% of species) whose wetland status was primarily obligate, facultative wetland or facultative (collectively 77% of species). Twenty-seven percent of species were introduced non-natives. Six species were common (present in 10% or more of samples) across all the STAs: Chara sp., Hydrilla verticillata, Lemna sp., Najas guadalupensis, Sagittaria lancifolia and Typha domingensis. Only one species, T. domingensis, was common in samples from each STA. Species richness in the STAs was significantly correlated with sampling effort but not with median water depth or wetland age, although there was a weak positive trend with age. A non-parametric estimator of species richness, the Chao 2 metric, predicted a lower bound of 89 species at marsh sites. Treatment cells dominated by submersed aquatic vegetation (SAV) pooled across all the STAs were slightly more species rich than cells dominated by emergent aquatic vegetation (EAV) (64 vs. 57 species, respectively), but there was no consistent pattern in species richness between EAV and SAV cells within individual STAs.
24319620|Sight and photographic records are reported for 11 species which were rare or previously unknown for the island.
24320320|A rich ravine woods, inhabited by many unique plants including Torreya taxifolia was cleared 27 yr ago. A recent survey has revealed that the system's major features remain, including a living Torreya.
24321905|Monitoring of benthic invertebrate communities in aquatic ecosystems has been used to evaluate a variety of environmental effects, including changes in hydrology. As part of a hydroecological assessment of the St. Johns River, FL, we studied invertebrate communities of shoreline and floodplain marsh habitats at locations in the middle and upper St. Johns River. A total of 112 invertebrate taxa were identified. Most were aquatic insects in the orders Odonata, Hemiptera, Coleoptera and Diptera. We examined a variety of metrics of invertebrate community structure and a surrogate measure of ecosystem function. Some of these metrics displayed patterns that could be related to hydrology. Preliminary sampling in floodplain marsh habitats with varying duration of inundation suggested some hydroecological patterns; relative abundance of taxa indicative of more permanent aquatic habitats (Ephemeroptera and Amphipoda) had a positive relationship with duration of inundation. Taxa able to undergo diapause during dry periods (Oligochaeta), those able to disperse to new habitats (Diptera, Coleoptera), and those with short life cycles adapted to temporary habitats (Diptera) had negative relationships between relative abundance and duration of inundation. We propose three new metrics that may be useful for future monitoring.
