23874579|An extensive trial of forty six tree, shrub and groundcover species under various irrigation regimes and natural rainfall was used to evaluate the performance of these plants for amenity purposes. Multivariate cluster analysis was used to separate the plants into groups on overall performance under all the irrigation regimes. Nearly half of the species used grew satisfactorily under all test conditions. These plants came from areas in southern Australia which received between 350 and 500mm of annual rainfall and are tolerant of a range of acid and alkaline soils. All exotic plants in the trial performed poorly and most eventually died. Plants irrigated at the optimum rate performed best.
23874430|Chamaecytisus proliferus (L. fil.)Link (Fabaceae: Genisteae) forms a taxonomic complex which is endemic to El Hierro, La Palma, La Gomera, Tenerife and Gran Canaria in the Canary Island archipelago. Forms from La Palma are popularly known as "tagasaste" whereas those from the rest of the archipelago are commonly called "escobn". Tagasaste is the only form which is broadly cultivated in the Canary Islands, and since the late 19th century in New Zealand and Australia. It has also become naturalized in Australia (South Australia, New South Wales, Victoria and Tasmania), Java, the Hawaiian Islands, California, Portugal, North Africa, Kenya, Tanzania and South Africa. Dr Victor Prez, a medical practitioner from La Palma, introduced tagasaste as a fodder tree from La Palma to Tenerife by the middle 19th century. Early introductions of tagasaste from the Canary Islands in the Pacific region confirm the importance of the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew and the Botanic Gardens of Adelaide in the distribution of this exotic species in this region during the last century.
23873796|A taxonomic revision of Clerodendrum in Australia is presented. The following ten species are recognised: C. costatum, C. floribundum, C. grayi, C. heterophyllum, C. inerme, C. longiflorum, C. parvulum, C. tatei, C. tomentosum and C. tracyanum. Described as new are C. grayi and C. longiflorum var. glabrum (from Queensland). C. longiflorum and C. heterophyllum var. baueri f. angustifolium are recorded from Australia for the first time. C. costatum is reinstated as the oldest valid name for the species currently named C. cunninghamii. C. populneum is placed in the synonymy of C. floribundum var. ovatum. A new combination of C. tatei (based on Strobilanthus tatei F. Muell.) is made and C. holtzei is placed in its synonymy. C. lanceolatum is relegated to the rank of a variety under C. tomentosum. The following nine taxa are typified: C. costatum, C. cunninghamii, C. floribundum var. floribundum, C. floribundum var. coriaceum, C. floribundum var. ovatum, C. tatei, C. tomentosum var. lanceolatum, C. tomentosum var. mollissima and C. tracyanum. In the case of the non-endemic species a range of material including specimens from Malesia was examined. Affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and each species. A key to the species and infraspecific taxa is provided and a detailed description of each species is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flowers.
23874059|The Hibbertia aspera group has been re-assessed and the characteristics of the hairs in particular examined in some detail. Eleven species and five subspecies are recognised, illustrated and keyed out on vegetative as well as floral characters. The following new taxa are described: H. appressa, H. aspera DC. subsp. pilosifolia, H. decumbens, H. empetrifolia (DC.) Hoogland subspp. radians and uncinata, H. hirta, H. hirticalyx, H. notabilis, H. rhynchocalyx and H. truncata. The new combination, H. cinerea, is published for Pleurandra cinerea R. Br. ex DC. and H. pallidiflora Toelken is added to the flora of south-western Victoria.
23874067|Many species of the present naturalised alien flora of South Australia were introduced intentionally for ornamental, culinary, medicinal, fodder, hedge and other purposes. The paper discusses these uses. Unintentional introductions occurred through contaminated seed, ballast, fleece, footwear, fodder and packing material. The scant documentation of those processes in South Australia that has been located, is presented. The roles and consequences of intentional and accidental introductions are discussed and compared.
23873906|A new species E. fragosa from south-eastern Tasmania restricted to two sites near Southport and on south Bruny Island on either side of the D'Entrecasteaux Channel is formally described. It belongs to Sect. Striatae and is closely allied to E. striata and E. semipicta. It is endangered owing to its being known from two populations with limited numbers of plants. An outlying population of E. collina ssp. diemenica confined to the summit of a small mountain on the Tasman Peninsula is identified.
23872052|A list of 125 South Australian vascular plants considered to be endangered has been prepared by the staff of the State Herbarium of South Australia.
23874302|An introduction and a key to the 12 species of Aglaia Lour. known from mainland Australia are presented. Aglaia cooperae, endemic to vine thicket on sand on Silver Plains in the Cape York Peninsula of Queensland, is described as new, illustrated and named after the author and naturalist, Wendy Cooper.
23873876|The endemic Australian genus Ixodia is revised and two species are recognized, namely I. achillaeoides R. Br. in Ait. f. and I. flindersica Copley, sp. nov. In addition, 3 subspecies of I. achillaeoides, namely ssp. achillaeoides, ssp. alata (Schltdl.) Copley and ssp. arenicola Copley are recognized. Keys, descriptions, illustrations and distribution maps are provided, together with notes on ecology.
23872225|Three new species of Eucalyptus are described from South Australia: E. calcareana from between the southern boundary of the Nullarbor Plateau and the Great Australian Bight, E. sparsa from the ranges in the north-west of South Australia and their vicinity, and adjacent ranges in Western Australia, and Northern Territory; and E. yumbarrana scattered in the arid west of South Australia. Data are presented for raising E. oleosa F. Muell. ex Miq. var. peeneri Blakely to specific status. All taxa are illustrated, specimens examined are listed, and the species relationships and ecology discussed.
43304743|Two new taxa in Lecidella Krb, are described: L. leucomarginata Kantvilas & Elix, from Kangaroo Island (South Australia) and south-western Western Australia and L. granulosula var. lecanorina Kantvilas & Elix, from Kangaroo Island (South Australia) and the coast of southern New South Wales. Both display the unusual feature of an unpigmented proper excipulum, densely inspersed with crystals. A key to Lecidella in temperate Australia is presented.
23874403|A striking new species, Calandrinia mirabilis Chinnock & J.G.West, is described and illustrated and placed in section Basales Poelln. It is a little known species from the western part of the Eremaean Province of Western Australia and restricted to the IBRA Gascoyne Bioregion. It is unique among Australian species of the genus possessing large multi-coloured flowers with redviolet petals that abruptly change in the lower third to an irregular white band, then an orange red band then yellow to the base. This species has considerable horticultural potential and notes on its ecology, phenology and seed germination are provided.
43304739|Drosera murfetii Lowrie & Conran is a new species from south-west Tasmania, Australia, bearing mainly non-carnivorous leaves and usually several large flowers per inflorescence. It is compared to its morphologically closest taxon, Drosera arcturi Hook., with which it often grows. The two species are described and illustrated, a key to species and a comparison table of characters is provided. Drosera arcturi is lectotypified.
23872050|A naturally occurring putative hybrid between Eremophila oppositifolia R.Br. and E. scoparia (R.Br.) F.Muell. was found at Whyalla, South Australia. The hybrid is morphologically intermediate in most characters between the two species and has a much increased pollen sterility. Illustrations, and a tabulated comparison, of the more important vegetative, floral and fruit features are provided for the hybrid and its parents.
23874398|The new species, Caloplaca gilfillaniorum Kantvilas & S.Y.Kondr. and C. piscatorica Kantvilas & S.Y.Kondr., are described and illustrated, and their relationships with other species are discussed. The closest affinities of the former are with the Australian species, C. kaernefeltii S.Y.Kondr., Elix & A.Thell, whereas those of the latter appear to be with the Antarctic endemic, C. schofieldii C.W. Dodge.
23874204|A new series, Incognitae, is described. It comprises Eucalyptus longifolia, E. cosmophylla and a newly described species, E. paludicola D. Nicolle, a small tree of restricted distribution on central and southern Fleurieu Peninsula and south western Kangaroo Island. A key is provided for the three species of ser. Ingognitae.
23872220|The forms of fruits of the Australian species of Solanum are described and related to their dispersal agents. The succulent berry is the most common, but trample burrs, censer mechanism, capsules, hard and dry berries and a possible tumble weed have evolved. Birds are the most commonly recorded agent of dispersal but marsupials, wild dog, bats, man, wind and water are important.
23873797|Hakea pulvinifera, discovered only in 1949 from a single population and subsequently believed extinct, has been rediscovered. Its reproductive biology and limited distribution indicate that it will require careful husbandry to survive.
23874279|A protocol to induce a high level of root formation in microshoot cultures in the flowering shrub Thryptomene ericaea F.Muell. has been developed. Microshoot cultures were initiated from field grown plants and proliferated in Damiano nutrient medium supplemented with 1.0 M 6-benzyladenine (BA) and 1.0 M kinetin. Adventitious rooting was induced by culturing elongated shoots in 0.7% (w/v) water-agar supplemented with 1.0 mM indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) for 48 hours then transferring the shoots to hormone free basal medium for 8 weeks. Under these conditions, a rooting frequency of 85% was achieved. Plantlets were successfully acclimatised in soil, and subsequently developed into phenotypically normal plants.
23874215|A putative naturally occurring hybrid between Pterostylis curta R. Br. and P. pedunculata R. Br. is reported from two localities near Adelaide. The validity of previous reports of this hybrid is discussed and the characteristics of the putative hybrids and its parents are tabulated as well as illustrated.
23872363|The taxonomy of fifteen Acacia species from Central Australia is discussed. Seven new species are described, namely A. abbreviata (N.T.a possible hybrid origin for this species is considered), A auricoma (W.A. and N.T.a very unusual species due to its possession of stellate hairs), A. dolichophylla (N.T.), A. jamesiana (W.A.), A. latzii (N.T.), A. nelsonii (N.T.) and A. rhodophloia (W.A. and N.T.this name replaces A. sibirica auct. non S. Moore). The following names are here relegated to synonymy for the first time: A. coronalis J.M. Black (under A. victoriae Benth.), A. dentifera var. intermedia S. Moore and A. graffiana F. Muell (under A. hemiteles Benth.), A. dentifera var. parvifolia S. Moore (under A. prainii Maiden) and A. genistoides A. Cunn. ex Benth. (under A. tetragonophylla F. Muell.). Notes are provided regarding J.M. Black's synonymy of A. prolifera J.M. Black (under A. prainii Maiden) and D.J. Whibley's synonymy of A. sowdenii Maiden (under A. papyrocarpa Benth.). A brief discussion of the A. brachystachya group is given (including the species A. brachystachya Benth., A. linophylla W.V. Fitzg. and A. ramulosa W.V. Fitzg.) and also notes as to why A. melleodora Pedley is not treated separately from A. dictyophleba F. Muell. Lectotypification is effected for seven taxa, namely A. dentifera var. parvifolia S. Moore, A. genistoides A. Cunn. ex Benth., A. graffiana F. Muell., A. hemiteles Benth., A. papyrocarpa Benth., A. prainii Maiden and A. tetragonophylla F. Muell.
23874469|Thirteen establishment techniques were tested to determine the effect of weed control, watering frequency and mulches on survival and early growth of tree seedlings in an arid zone near Port Augusta. Fortnightly watering and residual weed control for a 3m diameter circle were found to be the two most important factors, while organic and bitumen mulches were contributing no advantage. Bi-monthly watering was found to be insufficient. Removal of weed competition at planting, without any residual weed control, was of no major benefit, and residual weed control over a 1m diameter circle was also of no benefit. While the advantages of weed control were shown in this work the above average rainfall for the period of the trial suggests that the work should be repeated in a more representative year before the weed control techniques can be confidently used.
23873783|A new species of Acacia (Leguminosae; Mimosoideae), A. symonii, is described and illustrated from South Australia. The species belongs to series Juliflorae sensu Bentham (1864). Further relationship is uncertain but the resemblance to A. longissima H. Wendl. is discussed.
23874590|Senecio odoratus Hornem. var. longifolius var. nov. and S. cunninghamii DC. var. serratus var. nov. are described, and a key to all varieties of these related species provided. S. georgianus DC. var. latifolius J.M. Black and S. minimus Poir. var. picridioides (Turcz.) R.O. Belcher are recognised at the specific level as S. gawlerensis nom. nov. and S. picridioides (Turcz.) M.E. Lawrence comb. nov. respectively.
23872061|The genus Wrixonia comprises two species, W. prostantheroides F. Muell. from Western Australia, and W. schultzii (F. Muell. ex Tate) Carrick, comb. nov. from Northern Territory, for each of which a lectotype is chosen. A key is provided to distinguish the genus from the five other genera recognized in the Prostantheroideae. Both species are described and figured, and because of the very meagre original diagnosis, a more complete Latin description of the second is given.
23873875|A taxonomic revision of Australian Callicarpa is presented. Seven species are recognized of which C. brevistyla (Northern Territory) and C. thozetii (Queensland) are described as new. C. caudata and C. macrophylla are recorded from Australia for the first time, and C. pedunculata is typified. C. viridis is regarded as a new synonym of C. pedunculata. The affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and each species. A key to the species is provided and a detailed description of each is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flower.
23875378|In Australia, sect. Senna comprises 7 species, 5 native and 2 introduced, all previously treated within Cassia L. These are divided between two series, ser. Pictae having erect spike-like racemes, and ser. Floridae here transferred from sect. Chamaefistula. New combinations are provided for the four endemic species, S. venusta (F. Muell.) Randell, S. notabilis (F. Muell.) Randell, S. magnifolia (F. Muell.) Randell, and S. pleurocarpa (F. Muell.) Randell, and its two varieties var. angustifolia (Symon) Randell and var. longifolia (Symon) Randell.
23873874|The new genus Irenepharsus with three species is recognised: I. phasmatodes Hewson, I. magicus Hewson and I. trypherus Hewson. The genus is placed in tribe Sisymbrieae, subtribe Arabidopsidinae together with several other Australian endemic genera. An analysis of generic delimitation is presented.
23872045|A key to the South Australian species of Stackhousia is presented. S. monogyna Labill., S. aspericocca Schuch. (typified and reinstated as a distinct species although possibly better treated in a future revision as a race of S. monogyna), S. annua (a new species). S. spathulata Sieb. ex Spreng., and S. megaloptera FvM. (a probable new record for South Australia) and several other probably undescribed taxa of Sect. Stackhousia Subsect. Cincinniferae Mattf. are recognized as occurring in South Australia. Subsect. Cincinniferae and the polymorphic S. aspericocca require taxonomic study in the context of a revision of the whole genus.
23872368|A new species, Heliotropium flintii F. Muell. ex A.S. Mitchell is described and illustrated and a new combination in Abutilon (A. lepidum) based on Sida lepida F. Muell. is made for the Flora of Central
23875384|A new key is provided for the ten species of Microtis recognised for Western Australia. Reasons are given for the reinstatement of M. media R. Br. and an expanded description given. The new combination M. media ssp. densiflora (Benth.) R. Bates is made and a new subspecies, M. media ssp. quadrata as well as M. familiaris, a new species with no close similarity to any other, is described. The occurrence of M. unifolia (Forster f.) Reichb. f. sens. str. in Western Australia is questioned Additional notes are provided for: M. alba, M. atrata, M. globula, M. orbicularis, M. parviflora, M. pulchella and M. rara.
23874286|Choretrum spicatum subsp. continentale Lepschi is described as new. Notes on distinguishing this taxon from C. spicatum F.Muell. subsp. spicatum are provided, and both taxa are illustrated.
23872256|The Australian endemic genus Ixiochlamys F. Muell. et Sond. ex Sond. is revised. Four species are recognised, two of which are newly described, viz. I. filicifolia Dunlop and I. integerrima Dunlop. Illustrations, maps showing distribution and ecological notes are provided for each species.
23874305|Combinations are provided in Pterostylis and Caladenia (Orchidaceae) for new species initially described in the segregate genera Arachnorchis, Bunochilus and Oligochaetochilus. Recircumscription of existing species has led to some new species being recognised for South Australia and Prasophyllum sp. West Coast (R.Tate AD96945167) is now known as Prasophyllum catenemum D.L.Jones.
23874399|Two new lichens, Sarcogyne iridana P.M.McCarthy & Kantvilas and S. meridionalis P.M.McCarthy & Kantvilas (Acarosporaceae), are described and illustrated from sandstone in central Australia and from limestone, mainly in coastal habitats, in southern Australia, respectively. The widespread S. regularis Krb. is reported from Tasmania for the first time. Sarcogyne calcifraga (Mll.Arg.) H.Magn., based on collections from Egypt, is lectotypified, but it is excluded from the Australian lichen flora.
23875392|Within Lindernia a new subgenus Didymadenia with 2-celled sessile glands and 4(5) angled seeds with evenly spaced transverse ribs between the angles is described, together with the new species L. aplectra, L. chrysoplectra, L. cleistandra, L. eremophiloides, L. hypandra and L. tectanthera, and the new combination L. macrosiphonia, based on Rhamphicarpa macrosiphonia FvM. The union of the Australian genus Morgania R. Br. with Stemodia gives rise to the new combination in the latter for M. pubescens R. Br., the new names S. florulenta for M. floribunda Benth. (non S. floribunda (R. Br.) Roberty), S. glabella for M. glabra R. Br. (non S. glabra Oersted ut Sprengel), and S. lathraia for M. parviflora Benth. (non S. parviflora Ait.), and the new species S. tephropelina. Peplidium aithocheilum and Striga squamigera are further new species described.
23874055|A background is given to the genus Tribulopis R. Br. (Zygophyllaceae), an Australian endemic. The genus is lectotypified as are a number of species. Two new combinations, Tribulopis homalococca (Domin)R.M. Barker and Tribulopis homalococca var. alifer (Domin)R.M. Barker are made and three possibly new taxa are described but not given formal status because of the limited material available. A key, notes on distribution and habitat, comments on variability and dispersal of the taxa and their distinguishing features, all or selected specimens and illustrations are provided for all of the taxa.
23874135|A taxonomic revision of Gmelina in Australia is presented. The following five species are recognised: G. elliptica, G. leichhardtii, G. fasciculiflora, G. schlechteri and G. dalrympleana. G. schlechteri and G. elliptica are recorded from Australia for the first time. G. leichhardtii, G. fasciculiflora, G. schlechteri and G. dalrympleana are typified. G. vitiensis and Vitex vitiensis are regarded as new synonyms of G. dalrympleana. A range of specimens have been examined from Malesia. The affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and each species. A key to the species is provided and a detailed description of each species is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flower.
23874106|A revised key is provided to the species of Sida section Sida of Australia. Sida subcordata Span., a Malesian species, is recorded for the first time from Western Australia and the Northern Territory. The species previously referred to S. parvifolia DC. is now referred to the earlier named S. pusilla Cav. and specimens assigned to S. rohlenae Domin var. mutica (Domin)Fryxell are newly named as S. rohlenae Domin ssp. occidentalis R.M. Barker, while S. magnifica Domin is reduced to a subspecies of S. atherophora Domin.
23874126|A specimen inscribed "New Holland Gov. King" (G) is identified as the type of Pleurandra enervia DC., which is then placed into synonomy of Hibbertia procumbens (Labill.) DC. New combinations, H. hemignosta (Steud.) J.R.Wheeler and H. hibbertioides (Steud.) J.R.Wheeler, are published to replace the Western Australian species previously identified as H. enervia.
23873839|A new species of Eremophila is described from Queensland. E. linsmithii R.J. Henderson, sp. nov., belongs to section Amphichilus and is related to E. gibsonii and E. gilesii.
23872351|The taxonomy of the genus Cassytha L. (Lauraceae) in Australia is revised: in Australia there are 14 species, 3 varieties and 5 forms, all of them endemic except C. filiformis, C. capillaris and C. pubescens. The following new taxa are described: Cassytha aurea, C. pedicellosa, C. peninsularis, C. rufa, C. aurea var. candida, C. aurea var. hirta, C. peninsularis var. flindersii and C. glabella f. bicallosa. New combinations are: Cassytha glabella f. casuarinae (Nees) J.Z. Weber (C. casuarinae Nees), C. glabella f. dispar (Schltdl.) J.Z. Weber (C. dispar Schltdl.), C. racemosa f. muelleri (Meisn.) J.Z. Weber (C. muelleri Meisn.), C. racemosa f. pilosa (Benth.) J.Z. Weber (C. racemosa var. pilosa Benth.). An introduction includes discussion of morphology and includes the first chromosome count for a species of Cassytha (C. pubescens: n = 24). The affinities of the species are discussed, their distribution described, a key to the species, varieties and forms provided and a revised description of each taxon is supplemented with drawings, distributions maps and comment on possible evolutionary trends.
23872226|Corrections and 34 new distributional records are listed in a first supplement to the third edition of volume one of J.M. Black's 'Flora of South Australia' (1978).
23874508|Fungi belonging to Boletus section Boletus, known in Italy as porcini, in France as ceps, are prized for their good flavour and command a high price. They are ectomycorrhizal, forming symbiotic associations with a wide range of host plants, and although endemic to the Northern Hemisphere have been introduced into South Africa and New Zealand. We report here that Boletus edulis Bull. has become established broadly across the higher parts of the Adelaide Hills in South Australia in mycorrhizal association with at least three species of exotic trees. ITS sequence and morphological data were utilised to confirm the identity of the fungus and a full description of the Adelaide Hills collections is provided.
23872354|A taxonomic account of Nicotiana in Australia is presented, together with a key to the species and subspecies, and distribution maps. 16 endemic and 1 introduced species are recognized. Two new subspecies are described: N. debneyi subsp. monoschizocarpa and N. megalosiphon subsp. sessilifolia. Two new combinations are effected: N. occidentalis subsp. hesperis (formerly N. hesperis) and N. rosulata subsp. ingulba (formerly N. ingulba). N. exigua is treated as a probable synonym of N. suaveolens.
23874066|A new species E. amphisysepala W.R. Barker is distinguished within Sect. Phragmostomae; it occurs within a few kilometres of its closest ally E. phragmostoma W.R. Barker. The circumscription of the extinct E. arguta R. Br. is expanded on the basis of additional collections seen from the last century. The discovery of several taxa believed extinct or rare in all or part of their range, two probable hybrids, and unusual collections indicating taxonomic problems requiring investigation are documented. Further types of 16 names have been located since the publication of a revision of the genus in Australia in 1982, leading to the recognition of two holotypes and three lectotypifications. Additional synonymies and misapplications of names are provided.
43304742|A review of Hibbertia hirsuta (Hook.) Benth., which is prompted by its recent rediscovery in South Australia, includes a full description and a discussion of the importance of an understanding of the position and number of stamens in a flower to place the species with allied ones. Its affinities to H. dispar Toelken and H. basaltica A.M. Buchanan & Schah, are assessed and its possible cleistogamy discussed.
43575312|A brief outline of the problems with the delimitation of the genus, keys to all Australian species and species groups, descriptions of most recognised species, and notes concerning nomenclatural matters of many names are provided. Of the 87 species here recognised as constituing Brachyscome s. lat. in Australia, 17 are new, as are four subspecies: B. abercrombiensis P.S.Short, B. barkerae P.S.Short, B. billabongensis P.S.Short, B. casstiana P.S.Short, B. dalbyensis P.S.Short, B. foliosa P.S.Short, B. georginensis P.S.Short, B. gilesii P.S.Short, B. gracilis subsp. robusta P.S. Short, B. melanocarpa subsp. thompsonensis P.S.Short, B. microcarpa subsp. darlingensis P.S.Short, B. paludicola P.S.Short, B. rudallensis P.S.Short, B. simulans P.S.Short, B. staceae P.S.Short, B. tamworthensis P.S.Short, B. tasmanica P.S.Short, B. trisecta P.S.Short, B. walshii P.S.Short, B. watanabei P.S.Short and B. whitei subsp. lophoptera P.S.Short. A new genus, Roebuckia P.S.Short, is also described. It contains nine species, five of which are newly described along with some new varieties: R. cheilocarpa (F. Muell.) P.S.Short, R. cheilocarpa var. glabrata P.S.Short, R. cheilocarpa var. integra P.S.Short, R. cheilocarpa var. quobbensis P.S.Short, R. chinnockii P.S.Short, R. ciliocarpa (W. Fitzg.) P.S.Short, R. cuneata P.S.Short, R. halophila (P.S.Short) P.S.Short, R. lathamensis P.S.Short, R. lathamensis var. glabrata P.S.Short, R. lathamensis var. glandulosa P.S.Short, R. nerrenensis P.S.Short, R. oncocarpa (Diels) P.S.Short and R, similis P.S.Short. Lectotypifications are made for the following names: Brachyscome glabra Benth., B. debilis Sond., sieberi var. gunnii DC., B. radicata Hook. f., Silphiosperma Steetz and Steiroglossa DC. New lectotypes are chosen for the names Brachyscome angustifolia A. Cunn. ex DC., B. exilis var. scabrida Sond. and Paquerina graminea var. heterophylla Sond. Notes concerning the previously segregated genera Allittia P.S.Short, Hullsia P.S.Short and Pembertonia P.S.Short are incorporated in this review. Pollen: ovule ratios are reported for most species and a comparative table of character states for all species is presented.
23874281|The South Australian members of the complex of self-pollinated, mostly blue flowered, sunorchids related to Thelymitra pauciflora R.Br. are discussed. There are at least twenty South Australian species in the complex, many of which were only recently published. In addition, seven species are here described as new, namely T. crenulata R.J.Bates, T. hygrophila R.J.Bates, Thelymitra latifolia R.J.Bates, T. odora R.J.Bates, T. orientalis R.J.Bates, T. pallidifructus R.J.Bates and T. rubricaulis R.J.Bates.
23873911|A taxonomic revision of Prostanthera section Klanderia is presented. General chapters on taxonomic history, morphology, pollination, and breeding systems precede the systematic treatment. Fifteen species are recognized of which eight are described for the first time. The new species are P. florifera, P. incurvata, P. laricoides, P. monticola, P. patens, P. pedicellata, P. porcata and P. semiteres. Two subspecies of P. serpyllifolia and two subspecies of P. semiteres are recognized. P. semiteres spp. intricata is described for the first time. Keys to the species and subspecies are provided. All recognized taxa are provided with full descriptions, distribution information (including maps), ecological and other relevant notes. All species are illustrated. Morphological variation of P. aspalathoides, the P. calycina-P. microphylla-P. serpyllifolia complex, and the P. laricoides complex, plus the volatile leaf oil variation of P. aspalathoides, were investigated using the multivariate numerical techniques: canonical variate analysis, principal components and principal factor analyses, principal coordinates analysis, surface trend analysis (contour mapping) and differential systematics. Patterns of variation appeared to be associated with environmental and historical factors in P. aspalathoides and in the P. calycina-P. microphylla-P. serpyllifolia complex. The distinctness of the Kangaroo Island populations appears to reflect the relatively long separation of this island from the mainland.
23874198|This new species is described and illustrated for the first time. It is characterised by the pair of stipules at each node being joined between the leaf they subtend and the branchlet for most of their length and consistently greatly overlapping the leaf base and stipular pair of the node above. It is currently known from two localities approximately 15 km apart in two different environmental associations. New characters involving two types of fusion of the stipules of each pair are used to clarify the affinities of this species and are of potential use in defining generic relationships of the Australian stellate-haired Rhamneae.
23873811|Stenanthemum comprises c. 30 species for small shrubs from south-western, central, southern and north-eastern Australia. Two new species, S. arens and S. centrale, are described and illustrated, and a synopsis and key provided for the seven species of Stenanthemum that occur outside Western Australia.
23872158|Two new taxa of Ptilotus are described, Ptilotus maconochiei Benl sp. nov. from Queensland and Ptilotus aristatus var. stenophyllus Benl var. nov. from the Northern Territory.
23874513|Increased collections from the Hibbertia-rich vicinity of Sydney, New South Wales, prompted a survey of rarer species to publicise the need for more information ahead of the rapid urban spread. Many of these species were previously misunderstood or are listed as rare and endangered. Thirteen new taxa (in bold) are described and discussed in context with the following seventeen taxa within seven different species groups: 1. H. acicularis group: H. woronorana Toelken; 2. H. humifusa group: H. fumana Toelken; 3. H. pedunculata group: H. intermedia (DC.) Toelken; 4. H. rufa group: H. pilifera Toelken, H. pustulata Toelken, H. rufa N.A.Wakef., H. surcularis Toelken; 5. H. sericea group: H. puberula subsp. puberula,  subsp. extensa R.T.Mill. and  subsp. glabrescens Toelken; 6. H. stricta group: H. cistiflora N.A.Wakef. subsp. cistiflora,  subsp. quadristaminea Toelken, H. oxycraspedota Toelken & R.T.Mill., H. stricta (R.Br. ex DC.) F.Muell. subsp. stricta,  subsp. furcatula Toelken, H. sulcinervis Toelken; 7. H. strigosa group: H. strigosa Toelken.
23874214|Crassula sieberiana subsp. rubinea Toelken is described from New South Wales. The combination C. colorata var. acuminata (Reader) Toelken is published and C. ciliata L. is recorded as naturalised in South Australia. Notes and additions to the previously published key (Toelken, 1981) are included.
23874200|A new species of Duboisia, D. arenitensis Craven, Lepschi & Haegi, is described from the Northern Territory, Australia. The species is illustrated, its distribution mapped, and an identification key provided. The hyoscine and hyoscyamine content of the single collection known is 0.137% and 0.04%, respectively.
23873896|The identity of five Australian species of Bryum, listed by Catcheside (1980) as Bryum species AE, has been determined and their taxonomy is discussed. B. species A is B. sullivanii C. Muell., B. species B is Rosulabryum subtomentosum (Hampe)Spence, B. species C, a new species, is named as B. eremaeum Catcheside ex Spence & Ramsay, B. species D, also a new species, is named as B. sabulosum Catcheside ex Spence & Ramsay while B. species E belongs to the widespread taxon B. dichotomum Hedw.
23872356|The correct authority of Drosera peltata is shown to be Thunberg and a specimen on Herb. Thunberg 7720 (UPS) is chosen as the new lectotype of this species. D. peltata and D. auriculata are variable taxa which consistently intergrade in parts of their wide range. As a consequence, D. auriculata is reduced to a subspecies of D. peltata. A description of D. peltata, a key to the two subspecies and descriptions of each are presented.
23872365|An account of the vegetation and flora is given for the Redcliff survey area and eleven vegetation associations are recognized. A total of 303 species is recorded consisting of 278 angiosperms, 13 bryophytes and 12 lichens. A brief comparison of the Redcliff flora was made with coastal areas to the north and south and it was found that these were much poorer floristically and had less diversity in the vegetation. A number of rare or undescribed species in the Redcliff area are discussed.
23873848|The infrageneric classification of Euphrasia has been radically revised in the Australasian and Malesian regions. Fourteen sections are proposed. Two sections, Pauciflorae and Euphrasia (Semicalcaratae auctt.), comprise two and four subsections, respectively. The sections Malesianae, Cuneatae, Phragmostomae, Pauciflorae and Lasiantherae, and the subsections Pauciflorae and Humifusae are new and the sections Striatae, Scabrae, Novaezeelandiae, and Anagospermae are given new status. The generic type E. officinalis L. is not a nomen ambiguum in the sense of the ICBN; it should be reinstated as the correct name for E. rostkoviana Hayne. The classification of the genus in Australia has been completely restructured, with 42 taxa formally treated. Eighteen species are recognized, of which E. ramulosa, E. phragmostoma, E. semipicta, E. bowdeniae, E. lasianthera, E. eichleri, E. orthocheila and E. ciliolata are new and E. caudata, based on E. scabra var. caudata Willis, is given new status. Subspecies are proposed within four polymorphic species. E. gibbsiae has nine subspecies, of which four are new and four have changed status; E. collina, which has caused much confusion in the understanding of the genus in Australia, has 14 subspecies, four new and nine of changed status; E. crassiuscula has three subspecies, one new and one of changed status; and E. orthocheila has two subspecies, one new. In the highly variable species the degree and nature of distinction and amount of intergradation between subspecies is discussed, sometimes as a result of detailed field study. Clines and a limited amount of hybridism occur within species. Interspecific hybrids are rare. In a chapter on morphology, the taxonomic and, where possible, biological significance of morphological attributes in Euphrasia is discussed. Important characters, e.g. the distinctive habit types in the perennial species, acropetal branch development in the New Zealand annuals, corolla coloration, and the high chromosome numbers of Australian species, have been previously poorly documented or unknown. A number of other characters are redefined to improve their usefulness in classification, while others are shown to be of reduced significance. The origin and diversification of Euphrasia both on a world scale and within Australia are discussed. Cladistic analysis of the genus is difficult at this stage of our knowledge. However, through the postulation of primitive states of a few characters, several relict species are proposed which are remarkable in their scattered distribution in both hemispheres. From the character states present in the proposed relicts, six apparently monophyletic lineages are distinguished. Diversification of the genus seems to have been in at least two phases, one possibly in the early Tertiary or before, the other, from which most extant species are derived, since Neogene times. Apart from the recently derived, highly specialized Sect. Euphrasia, the genus shows no capacity for long-distance dispersal; much evidence points to the need for migration across suitable land. An association of at least two relict species with Nothofagus, which with Fagus has a distribution homologous to Euphrasia, is among the evidence presented for Euphrasia attaining its bihemispheric distribution by the early Tertiary. Deficiencies in the present fossil record allow latitude for this theory.
23874102|Nicotiana truncata Symon is described from desert loams in washes and creeklines in the gibber desert between Coober Pedy and Oodnadatta, South Australia. The chromosome number 2n = 36 is reported.
23874058|E. splendens Rule subsp. arcana Nicolle & Brooker, a new subspecies from south of Millicent in South Australia is described. It differs from E. splendens subsp. splendens in its consistently low, scraggy habit; larger, slightly crenulate juvenile leaves; larger, sessile buds and fruits and the obtuse operculum. E. splendens subsp. arcana is endangered, with a very restricted natural occurrence.
23873780|The endemic Australian genus Malacocera is revised and four species are recognized, namely M. albolanata (Ising) Chinnock, comb. nov. (syn. Bassia albolanata), M. biflora Ising, M. gracilis Chinnock sp. nov. and M. tricornis (Benth.) R.H. Anderson. Descriptions, illustrations and distribution maps are provided, together with notes on ecology and relationships.
23873809|The name Spyridium waterhousei F.Muell. is re-instated for a species of Rhamnaceae (Pomaderreae), endemic to Kangaroo Island, South Australia, that is currently known as Cryptandra waterhousei (F.Muell.) F.Muell. The taxonomic history of the species and of the tribe Pomaderreae is explored and the changing generic concepts are reviewed in the light of recent publications. A lectotype is nominated for the species. It was named after Frederick G. Waterhouse, who was one of the first botanical collectors on the island.
23874592|Swainsona leeana J. Weber is described and its similarities with other species as well as its distinguishing features are discussed.
23874397|The new species Catillaria austrolittoralis Kantvilas & van den Boom is described from coastal rocks in southern Australia including Tasmania. It contains argopsin or pannarin, two compounds previously unreported for the genus.
23888258|A new Brachycome, B. coongiensis, is described from the Lake Eyre Region, South Australia. A detailed description of the species is supplemented by a sketch; affinities and distribution are considered.
23873834|Since the description of Acacia retinodes Schltdl. in 1847, there has been confusion about its identity. Extensive fieldwork has been conducted on this species and related taxa, material and literature examined, and the taxa delimited. Three species are recognised here which previous authors have confounded with varying interpretations under A. retinodes Schltdl., and they are described, illustrated and discussed in full. Acacia retinodes Schltdl. is now considered to be endemic to the Mt Lofty Ranges of South Australia. Acacia provincialis A.Camus, which is here lectotypified, has a discontinuous distribution in south-eastern Australia from the Mt Lofty Ranges and Kangaroo Island, South Australia, the Grampians and Glenelg River to near Melbourne, Victoria; it has become naturalised in Southern Europe and North America. Acacia uncifolia O'Leary is raised for the first time to species level; treated previously as as a variety of A. retinodes Schltdl., it has a disjunct distribution in coastal areas from Kangaroo Island and southern Fleurieu Peninsula in South Australia, King and Flinders Islands in Bass Strait and from Torquay to Wilsons Promontory in Victoria.
23872364|Three new species of Fabaceae, namely, Isotropis centralis J.R. Maconochie, Indigofera ammobia J.R. Maconochie and Tephrosia arenicola J.R. Maconochie are described for the 'Flora of Central Australia'.
23872049|Three species of Eremophila, namely E. clarkei Oldfield & F. Muell., E. obovata L. S. Smith and E. turtonii F. Muell., are recorded in South Australia for the first time. A brief description, based on South Australian material, and a map showing the known distribution in the state, is provided for each species. The occurrence in the state, of E. denticulata F. Muell. and E. goodwinii F. Muell., which were included in Black's "Flora of South Australia," (1957) is considered very doubtful.
23874396|A new lichen species, Psoroglaena halmaturina P.M. McCarthy & Kantvilas (Verrucariaceae), is described from the bark of trees in remnant mallee and Melaleuca thicket on Kangaroo Island, South Australia. The generic affinities of the species are discussed and a key to the Australian species of Psoroglaena, and the related genera Agonimia and Phylloblastia, is provided.
23874298|The Ptilotus parvifolius complex is revised and five species are recognised: P. parvifolius (F.Muell.) F.Muell., P. remotiflorus Benl, P. disparilis Lally, sp. nov., P. propinquus Lally, sp. nov. and P. whitei (J.M.Black) Lally, comb. nov. Descriptions and distribution maps are provided, and the new species are illustrated.
23874197|A taxonomic revision of Duranta L. in Australia is presented. One naturalised species D. erecta (=D. repens and D. plumieri) is recorded from Australia. Affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and the species. A detailed description of the species is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch, analytical drawings of the flower and range of variation in shape of leaves.
23874401|A taxonomic treatment of Hibbertia Vestitae Benth. is presented. The distributions of the species range from near Hobart in Tasmania to tropical Queensland, north of Rockhampton. A key and full descriptions of all recognised taxa as well as selected illustrations are provided. The following taxa are recognised (newly described taxa and new combinations in bold): H. basaltica A.M.Buchanan & Schah., H. coloensis, H. demissa, H. dispar, H. ericifolia Hook.f. subsp. ericifolia, subsp. acutifolia, H. expansa, H. exponens, H. exposita, H. florida subsp. florida, subsp. angustinervis, H. fruticosa subsp. fruticosa, subsp. pilligaensis, H. horricomis, H. intermedia (R.Br. ex DC.) Toelken, H. marginata B.J.Conn, H. mediterranea, H. pachynemidium, H. pedunculata R.Br. ex DC., H. porcata, H. samaria, H. serpyllifolia R.Br. ex DC., H. singularis, H. stichodonta, H. vestita A.Cunn. ex Benth. var. vestita, var. thymifolia Benth.
23874210|A search of collections and early literature revealed that 101 species of alien plants were naturalised in South Australia by 1855. Another thirteen alien species were erroneously recorded as naturalised and native taxa were mistakenly identified as alien species in a further seven instances. All of the species are presented in an annotated list, including citations of relevant specimens. Observations by various botanists on alien plants in that period are reviewed. Of the established species, 90 originated in Europe, and 55 are known to have been introduced on purpose.
23874065|Placenta patterns of about 100 species of Solanum are presented. Considerable diversity occurs with elaboration and eventual division of the placenta. The septum may disintegrate or the development of extra septa and intrusions of the pericarp may occur. Elaboration of the placenta is closely correlated with high seed numbers and disintegration of the septum is found mostly in species with small red fruits. In section Archaesolanum the seeds become embedded in an enlarged placenta which appears to occupy the free space in the locule completely and in some species of section Leiodendra a reticulum develops which separates the numerous seeds singly or in small groups. In subgenus Lycianthes several species have intrusions from the pericarp partially separating the seeds.
23873900|Harnieria kempeana (F. Muell.)R.M. Barker subsp. rhadinophylla Lepschi, a taxon endemic to North West Cape, Western Australia, is described and illustrated. A key to the subspecific taxa of Harnieria kempeana is provided.
23873786|Two new records for the State, C. hamulata Ktzg., a European species previously known only from Victoria, and C. umbonata Hegelm., a native species previously known only from southern New South Wales, Victoria and northern Tasmania, are documented. A key and descriptions are provided for the four species now recognised as occurring in South Australia.
23874026|This new species is described from Western Australia and South Australia from mallee vegetation on shallow soil overlying limestone. The occurrences in the two states are over 650 km apart and separated by the Nullarbor Plain. In comparison with other Spyridium species with the same fruit type, S. tricolor can be distinguished from its South Australian and eastern states congeners by the very large size of the stipule-like bracts which encircle the unit inflorescences, and amongst the Western Australian species by its almost circular leaves with flat to incurved rather than recurved margins.
23874060|Lindernia cowiei, a new species of Subg. Bonnaya from Melville Island, Northern Territory, is described. It is most closely allied to L. tenuifolia, a species from southeast Asia and Malesia which also occurs in the far northern coastal regions of Northern Territory and Queensland. A discussion of relationships and a key and known geographical and ecological distribution of the two Australian species is provided. Variation of L. tenuifolia in Australia encompasses L. viatica, another southeast Asian species distinguished in the past 20 years, but variation within populations in Australia does not support its separation at the level of species.
23873798|Prasophyllum calcicola R. Bates from South and Western Australia is described as new; Prasophyllum macrostachyum R. Br. var. ringens (Reichb. f. ) A.S. George is raised to species rank as Prasophyllum ringens (Reichb. f.) R. Bates; Prasophyllum macrostachyum R. Br. is given an expanded description and the relationship of the three species discussed.
23874587|Sect. Grevilleoides Benth. is in need of revision, the current species often being poorly distinguished. H. ivoryi Bailey is shown to be confined to Queensland, H. eyreana (S. Moore) D. McGillivray to the Simpson Desert and east of it, and H. divaricata L. Johnson, reinstated for South Australia, occurs in central arid Australia, possibly extending to central Queensland; H. suberea S.Moore and H. cunninghamii R. Br. are likely to be synonymous, the latter name having priority. Among H. leucoptera R. Br. and its allies the branching and indumentum of the rachis are important diagnostically; H. leucoptera is variable in floral indumentum throughout South Australia, sometimes has a drooping habit east of the Flinders Ranges, and encompasses South Australian material previously assigned to H. kippistiana Meissner; H. tephrosperma R. Br. is newly recorded for South Australia and its variability in southeast Australia and distinction from H. leucoptera is clarified; H. vittata var. glabriflora J. Black ex J.H. Willis, described from the Mt Lofty Ranges, is reduced to synonymy under H. sericea Schrader, which is likely to be naturalised there; a Victorian record of this variety was based on a specimen of H. lissosperma R. Br.
23872366|The name 'Ganzin Glory' is proposed for the ornamental vine derived from the cross Vitis vinifera L. x V. rupestris Scheele and grown widely in southern Australia under a number of invalid or illegitimate names. This cultivar was produced by Victor Ganzin in France and released by him in 1900 as a rootstock under the code 'ARG 9'.
23873899|A number of new species, both native and naturalised, are newly recorded for Australia. The majority of these, Ruellia squarrosa (Fenzl)Cufod., Hygrophila Lake McDonald, Barleria cristata L., Odontonema tubaeforme (Bertol.)Kuntze and Hemigraphis reptans (Forst.f.)T. Anderson, represent introductions which have subsequently become naturalised. Species previously referred to Sarojusticia Bremek. and Calophanoides (Clarke)Ridley have been transferred to Harnieria Solms-Laub. to give the new combinations Harnieria hygrophiloides (F. Muell.)R.M. Barker, H. kempeana (F. Muell.)R.M. Barker and H. kempeana ssp. muelleri (R.M. Barker)R.M. Barker. A possible new species of Harnieria is described but left unnamed since the material is inadequate, as is a possible new taxon of Dipteracanthus. There are additional notes on Ruellia, Asystasia and Graptophyllum as well as Thunbergia grandiflora (Roxb. ex Rottler)Roxb., Brunoniella spiciflora (F. Muell. ex Benth.)Bremek., Xerothamnella parvifolia C.T. White and X. herbacea R.M. Barker, Dicliptera australis (Nees)R.M. Barker, Hypoestes aristata (Vahl)Sol. ex Roemer & Schult. and H. phyllostachya Bak. and Rhaphidospora cavernarum (F. Muell.)R.M. Barker. New Guinea specimens previously referred to Rhaphidospora platyphylla (S. Moore)Bremek. are synonymous with R. cavernarum (F. Muell.)R.M. Barker.
23874431|A taxonomic revision of the monotypic genus Oncinocalyx is presented and its affinities and distribution are considered. A detailed description of the type species, O. betchei, is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flower.
23890926|A taxonomic revision of Vitex in Australia is presented. The following eight species are recognised: V. acuminata, V. benthamiana, V. glabrata, V. helogiton, V. melicopea, V. rotundifolia, V. trifolia and V. velutinifolia. V. velutinifolia (from Western Australia) is described as new. V. melicopea and V. helogiton are reinstated, with V. helogiton being recorded from Australia for the first time. V. rotundifolia is reinstated as the oldest valid name for the 1-foliolate species previously often named V. ovata, V. trifolia var. ovata, V. trifolia var. unifoliolata, V. trifolia var. simplicifolia or V. trifolia subsp. littoralis. V. trifolia var. bicolor is placed in synonymy of V. trifolia var. trifolia. The following four species are typified: V. acuminata, V. benthamiana, V. helogiton and V. melicopea. A range of material of the non-endemic species was examined from Malesia. Affinities and distribution are considered for each species. A key to the species is provided and a detailed description of each species is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flower.
43304744|A new arid zone species endemic to Davenport Range in South Australia is formally described as Goodenia valdentata P.J. Lang. It belongs in subsection Goodenia and fits within a group of species allied to G. grandiflora Sims. Previously, G. valdentata has been confused with Goodenia saccata Carolin and G. chambersii F. Muell., and characters distinguishing the three species are tabulated. Goodenia valdentata appears most closely related to G. chambersii, with G saccata more distant relative strongly linked to G. albiflora Schldl. by the synapomorphies of crenulatelaciniate corolla wing margins and flattened, short, white hairs inside the corolla. Based on its restricted range G. valdentata warrants listing as rare in South Australia.
23874577|The native vegetation of South Australia is ill-adapted to survive disturbance such as that imposed by agriculture. Yet 10 species unintentionally introduced and 16 species deliberately introduced from other parts of Australia are established to a greater or lesser extent in South Australia. Furthermore, 15 species native to South Australia have survived the disturbance caused by agriculture and in some cases have become minor weeds. Apart from the intentionally introduced species which are mainly woody ornamentals, the other groups consist entirely of plants having herbaceous habits. Of the 50 Australian native plants established successfully in areas overseas with a Mediterranean climate similar to that of South Australia, the majority are woody ornamentals. The reasons for this are discussed in the paper.
23874068|Phebalium equestre is described and illustrated; it is endemic to eastern Kangaroo Island and is regarded as endangered.
23874443|From E. ser. Rufispermae Maiden, a new subspecies is recognised and described as E. phenax Brooker & Slee subsp. compressa Nicolle distributed on Kangaroo Island and the adjacent mainland. From E. ser. Viminales Blakely, a new subspecies is recognised and described as E. goniocalyx F. Muell. ex Miq. subsp. exposa Nicolle distributed in the Elder and Wilpena Pound Ranges. From E. informal sect. Adnataria Pryor & Johnson, E. lansdowneana F. Muell. & J. Brown subsp. albopurpurea Boomsma is raised to specific rank as E. albopurpurea (Boomsma) Nicolle and E. albopurpurea and E. lansdowneana are described under revised circumscription. A new series, E. ser. Vagitae Nicolle, is described to accommodate E. lansdowneana. Keys are provided for South Australian taxa of E. ser. Rufispermae and E. ser. Viminales and maps are provided for E. phenax subsp. compressa and E. nortonii subsp. exposa.
23874591|Several forms in the Teucrium racemosum-complex are re-evaluated and the var. tripartitum is raised to species level as T. albicaule sp. nov. In T. grandiusculum the subsp. grandiusculum and subsp. pilosa are distinguished and formally described.
43304740|Phillip Island wheat grass has been known under many different scientific names. The taxon is now mostly placed in the genus Anthosachne Steud., following recent molecular phylogenetic data. Unfortunately no correct name is currently available under that genus which is rectified here. The new combinations Anthosachne kingiana (Endl.) Govaerts and Anthosachne kingiana subsp. multtflora (Banks & Sol. ex Hook.f.) Govaerts are made.
23873898|Three new species of Phyllanthus known to occur in South Australia are described and notes are presented on their distribution, ecology and conservation status: Phyllanthus oblanceolatus, P. erwinii and P. striaticaulis. Phyllanthus oblanceolatus is poorly known (3KC) and probably a rare plant with scattered occurrences across the Northern Territory, South Australia and New South Wales. Phyllanthus erwinii occurs in rocky localities across central and western arid Australia. Phyllanthus striaticaulis (distinct from P. australis Hook.f.) is restricted to the Fleurieu and Yorke Peninsulas and also to Kangaroo Island in South Australia. A key to all South Australian species of Phyllanthus is presented.
23873877|Four new taxa are described, viz. Daviesia asperula subsp. asperula and subsp. obliqua, D. benthamii Meissner subsp. humilis, and D. stricta. The relationship of the first two species to D. genistifolia A. Cunn. ex Benth. is discussed in detail. D. stricta is compared with its close relative, D. wyattiana, from the east coast. A new combination is made for the tribe Mirbelieae (Benth.) Polhill et Crisp. Pultenaea elachista (F. Muell.) comb. nov. is transferred from Gastrolobium.
23874202|The relationship between S. obtusifolia (L.)Irwin & Barneby and S. tora (L.)Roxb. is discussed. Consideration of biogeography suggests that the latter species evolved in Asia from the former.
23874581|New collections of Solanum from northern Queensland have enabled the problem of the indentity of S. shanesii to be resolved. This species belongs to Solanum sect. Lycianthes (Dun.) Wettst. which has not previously been recorded for Australia. The closest relatives of S. shanesii are found in Central America. A further collection of Solanum sect. Lycianthes from Queensland may represent a new species.
23890933|A combination in Leptosema is made for Brachysema daviesioides and L. aculeatum is described as new. Taxonomy of the Mirbelia species with spinescent branchlets and reduced leaves is reviewed for the 'Flora of Central Australia'. Three species, M. granitica, M. rhagodioides and M. stipitata, are described as new. M. microphylloides is reduced to synonymy under M. microphylla and a neotype is chosen for M. depressa. A key to the group is presented.
23872060|A taxonomic revision of Spartothamnella Briq. is provided. The features shared by the genus with Myoporaceae are discussed. Three species are recognized of which each one is typified for the first time. The affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and each species. A new key to the species is provided and a detailed revised description of each taxon is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flowers.
23875382|Triglochin ovoideum J. Black is shown to be a synonym of T. hexagonum J. Black. T. muelleri Buchen. is endemic to Western Australia, previous records of this species for South Australia being due to misdeterminations.
23874400|This new species of Euphrasia sect. Striatae is known from the Wilson and Harman river catchments of the Pieman River watershed, western Tasmania. It occurs on open ultramafic pans surrounded by sclerophyllous heath and shrubby eucalypt woodland. It was known from a single fragment in the National Herbarium of Victoria collected during the 1800s, but not formally named. Now, recently collected from three closely separated sites, the species is described and illustrated. It is clearly naturally rare, although its conservation status needs clarification through further field survey.
23874107|Two new species, Z. eichleri R.M. Barker and Z. rowelliae R.M. Barker, are described from within the 5-merous group of Zygophyllum species, together with a revised key to this group. Z. halophilum R.M. Barker, Z. reticulatum H. Eichler ex R.M. Barker and Z. aurantiacum ssp. simplicifolium H. Eichler ex R.M. Barker are described from the group of species with 4-winged fruits and a revised key is also provided to this group. Z. marliesiae R.M. Barker, closely related to Z. prismatothecum, is distinguished for the first time. Typifications and notes on other Australian species are also presented.
23874580|A taxonomic revision of Viticipremna is presented. The following five species are recognised: V. tomentosa Munir, V. queenslandica Munir, V. vitilevuensis Munir, V. philippinensis (Turcz.) H.J. Lam and V. novae-pommeraniae (Warb.) H.J. Lam. V. tomentosa (from Papua New Guinea), V. queenslandica (from Australia) and V. vitilevuensis (from Fiji) are described as new. The latter two are respectively the first representative species of this genus from Australia and Fiji. The genus and the type species are typified. The affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and each species, a key to the species is provided and a detailed description of each species is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flowers.
23874586|Selected historical data from 1802 to 1840 are presented to illustrate the extent of European plant introductions in both pre-colonial South Australia and the early years of official settlement. Some other effects such as land clearing and the early movement of weeds are briefly discussed.
23872064|This paper presents a synopsis of the nomenclature of the family Lythraceae in the Northern Territory. Keys to the genera and species have been prepared.
23873950|The native and naturalised plant taxa occurring in South Australia are recorded together with their distribution within the State and an extensive synonymy. Previously incorrectly recorded taxa are included.
23873799|Prasophyllum fecundum R. Bates and P. occultans R. Bates are described from southern South Australia, together with illustrations and key.
23872357|This paper outlines the explorations and botanical endeavour of the famous German-American mediconaturalist, Hans Herman Behr, in South Australia (1844-45) and (1848-49). Five Appendices embrace the following topics: A, Chronology (1843-1855); B, Collection Localities; C, List of plants named after Behr and synonyms; D, Behr paper "On the vegetation at the Murray"; E, Two entomological excerpts.
23874284|Euphorbia flindersica Halford & W.K.Harris, endemic to the Flinders Ranges, South Australia, is described, illustrated and diagnosed. It was previously recognised as Chamaesyce sp. Papillose plants (D.E.Symon 14628). The taxon known by the phrase name Chamaesyce sp. Marree (F.J.Badman 776) is conspecific with Euphorbia inappendiculata var. queenslandica Domin.
23875394|Six new taxa of Hakea are described from the south-west region of Western Australia; these are H. psilorrhyncha and H. obliqua ssp. parviflora, H. pendens, H. newbeyana, H. bicornata and H. horrida. The new combinations made here are H. teretifolia ssp. hirsuta (Endl.) R.M.Barker, H. pandanicarpa ssp. crassifolia (Meissn.) R.M.Barker, H. spathulata (Benth.) R.M.Barker, and H. longiflora (Benth.) R.M.Barker. H. drupacea (Gaertn.f.) Roemer & Schultes and H. denticulata R. Br. are earlier names which must replace H. suaveolens R. Br. and H. rubriflora Lamont respectively, while H. lasiocarpha R. Br. replaces H. dolichostyla Diels. H. brownii Meissn. is a distinct species separate from H. baxteri, while H. roei Benth. is a synonym of H. pandanicarpa ssp. crassifolia.
23872359|Comesperma pallidum and Polygala isingii are described as new. These names are used in the account of Polygalaceae in the handbook to the Flora of Central Australia.
23874206|Seven surface materials on man-made rainfall catchments for single trees were evaluated as to their effect on collecting rainfall run-off to aid tree and shrub establishment on flat sandy soils in arid zones. The aim being to develop a catchment system that can substitute entirely for supplementary watering in arid zones. Large variability in run-off occurred. After nine months residual herbicides were ineffective and weed germination broke up the surface materials and reduced run-off. Dry soil at the time of application of the surface materials also may have reduced their effectiveness. However, catchments sealed with cut-back bitumen tended to give more run-off than those sealed with a cement render or silicon products (silicone emulsion plus polymer latex, and sodium methyl siliconate). The 1.2 l/m2 rate of cut-back bitumen tended to be giving more run-off than the 0.6 l/m2 rate. A catchment size of 4 m2 treated with 1.2 l/m2 of cut-back bitumen potentially substituted for three hand waterings, representing nett cost savings. Also, with this treatment, 2 mm of rain was sufficient to give a benefit to plants in the first year of its application, by shedding 34 l of run-off, providing it falls close to a few other small events or one larger one. The practicality of applying the different surface treatments and the future directions are discussed.
23872367|Ipomoea aequisepala Domin, a northern Australian species previously confused with Operculina turpethum (L.) S. Manso, is transferred to Operculina and the necessary recombination effected.
23874211|Gunniopsis, which includes all Australian species previously included in Aizoon L. and Neogunnia Pax & Hoffm., is revised. Fourteen species are recognised and G. calcarea, G. calva, G. divisa, G. papillata, G. propinqua, G. rubra and G. tenuifolia are described as new. Two new combinations, G. kochii and G. septifraga are made. All species are illustrated and distribution maps and ecological data are provided. Gunniopsis is compared with Aizoon L. and Aizoanthemum Dinter ex Friedr., two African genera with which Gunniopsis has previously been compared or considered synonymous. Pollen, capsule and seed characters are discussed and illustrated. The majority of Gunniopsis species appear to be protandrous outcrossers, while a few are autogamous.
23874129|A new species, Acacia toondulya, is described and illustrated. It has a restricted distribution in the western Gawler Ranges, Eyre Peninsula, South Australia and is most closely related to A. notabilis.
43304741|Three new species are described, two from Sulawesi and one from New Guinea: Rhododendron dissilistellatum Craven, R. gumineense Craven and R. torajaense Craven. The circumscriptions of R. seranicum J.J. Sm. sensu Argent, R. radians J.J. Sm. sensu Argent & Sleumer, and R. javanicum (Blume) Benn. sensu Argent are considered to be excessively broad and the taxonomy of these three species is amended. One new name and six new combinations resulting from realignments in taxonomic status are proposed: R. biappendiculatum Craven, R. cladotrichum (Sleumer) Craven, R. cockburnii (Argent, A. Lamb & Phillipps) Craven, R. extraneum (Sleumer) Craven, R. kinabaluense (Argent, A. Lamb & Phillipps) Craven, R. minahasae (Sleumer) Craven, R. palawanense (Argent) Craven.
23874512|A taxonomic re-evaluation of the H. hermanniifolia group confirmed that it should be segregated from Hibbertia  Tomentosae Bentham (1863). The following taxa are recognised (newly described ones are in bold): H. acaulothrix Toelken, H. hermanniifolia DC. subsp. hermanniifolia and subsp. recondita Toelken, H. hexandra C.T.White, H. planifolia Toelken, H. reticulata Toelken, H. spathulata N.A.Wakef. subsp. spathulata and subsp. pleioclada Toelken. Desriptions, a key to the species and subspecies as well as illustrations are provided. The vestiture and its developments are reviewed.
23872233|Descriptions and distributions are given of the following Solanaceae in Australia: Browallia americana L., Capsicum annuum L. var. annuum, C. annuum var. glabriusculum (Dun.) Heiser & Pickersgill, C. frutescens L.; Cestrum aurantiacum Lindl., C. elegans (Brongn.) Schlecht., C. nocturnum L.; C. parqui L'Her.; Cyphomandra crassifolia (Ort.) Kuntze; Hyoscyamus albus L., H. niger L.; Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.; Nierembergia hippomanica Miers; Physalis alkekengi l., P. ixocarpa Brot. ex Hornem., P. lanceifolia Nees, P. minima L., P. peruviana L., P. philadelphica Lam., P. pubescens L., P. virginiana Mill., P. viscosa L.; Petunia axillaris (Lam.) B.S.P., P.  hybrida Vilm., P. parviflora Juss.; Salpichroa origanifolia (Lam.) Baill.; Withania somnifera L.
23874307|The discovery on the western end of Kangaroo Island of a Goodenia species new to South Australia is reported and its identification and affinities are briefly discussed. The new occurrence of Goodenia micrantha is a major disjunction from the remainder of its distribution in Western Australia and paralells the biogeographical pattern of several other plant species common to both areas that reach their eastern limit at a similar longitude. Although provisionally treated as native, the possibility that this is a recently established alien population resulting from human-aided dispersal warrants investigation.
23873800|A new Ptilotus, P. barkeri Benl sp. nov. from Lake Eyre Region, South Australia, is described and discussed. The taxon is illustrated by a photograph of the holotype sheet and by analytical drawings.
23874306|Reasons are presented for use of the name Avicennia marina (Forssk.) Vierh. subsp. marina (Avicenniaceae/Acanthaceae), instead of A. marina subsp. australasica (Walp.) Everett, for the only South Australian mangrove species.
23873879|Allocasuarina L. Johnson, gen. nov., is recognised as separate from Casuarina sens. strict. and 40 combinations at specific and subspecific level are made under the new genus. Casuarina grandis L. Johnson and C. oligodon L. Johnson are described together with a new subspecies, C. oligodon ssp. abbreviata L. Johnson, and C. equisetifolia ssp. incana (Benth.) L. Johnson, stat. nov. In Gymnostoma, combinations are made for 11 species.
23874301|A new subspecies of Acacia beckleri Tindale, Acacia beckleri subsp. megaspherica O'Leary, is here recognised, described and illustrated. This new subspecies is restricted to the Flinders Ranges, South Australia.
23873840|Two new species of Cycas, namely Cycas calcicola and C. pruinosa, are described from the Northern Territory and Western Australia respectively. These species are allied to C. revoluta Thunb. of Japan and C. cairnsiana F. Muell. of Queensland; all four species have pinnae with a distinctly revolute margin.
23874439|Twelve species and three subspecies are recognised, illustrated and keyed out. The new combination, H. platyphylla subsp. major, is published for H. sericea var. major J.M.Black. The following new taxa are described: H. crinita, H. patens, H. platyphylla as well as its subsp. halmaturina, H. praemorsa, H. puberula, H. simulans, H. superans, H. tenuifolia and H. villifera. H. humifusa is excluded.
43575313|The new name Roebuckiella P.S. Short (Asteraceae) is published to replace Roebuckia P.S. Short (2014), nom. illeg., with new combinations made for the nine constituent species and infraspecific taxa recognised.
23873865|An account of the family Solanaceae in New Guinea is presented. The following genera are naturalised and are represented by 1-2 species only Browallia, Brugmansia, Capsicum, Cestrum, Cyphomandra, Datura, Lycopersicon, Nicandra, Nicotiana and Physalis. Lycianthes is treated as a subgenus of Solanum. The genus Solanum with 59 species includes 7 alien species either cultivated, naturalised or weedy. Of the 52 native species, the following are described as new: S. abortivum Symon S. anfractum Symon, S. atheniae Symon, S. bitterianum Symon, S. borgmannii Symon, S. dendropilosum Symon, S. denseaculeatum Symon, S. expedunculatum Symon, S. incanoalabastrum Symon, S. infuscatum Symon, S. mankiense Symon, S. missimense Symon, S. multivenosum Symon, S. nolense Symon, S. papuanum Symon, S. pustulatum Symon, S. rivicola Symon, S. saruwagedensis Symon, S. umbonatum Symon.
23873904|Keys to the species of the informal H. sericea and H. nodosa species groups of Sect. Hakea are provided. In the former group new taxa described are: a new subspecies ssp. sericipes of the eastern and western perimeter of the widespread semi-arid Australian species H. leucoptera R. Br.; H. actites of coastal regions of southern Queensland and northern New South Wales and H. macrorrhyncha of a localised granite area on the Queensland - New South Wales border, both previously confused with H. propinqua Cunn.; H. ochroptera, a northern New South Wales counterpart of H. macraeana F. Muell. from the Dorrigo area; two new subspecies of H. decurrens R. Br., previously confused with H. sericea Schrad. & J. Wendl., ssp. physocarpa from western and central Victoria, the plant naturalised in South Australia, and ssp. platytaenia of coastal regions of eastern Victoria and south-eastern New South Wales. Of overseas introductions till now all considered to be H. sericea, substantial material has been seen only from South Africa, which is all true H. sericea; the few specimens from other countries indicate that H. sericea occurs in New Zealand and Norfolk Island and H. decurrens ssp. physocarpa in Portugal. In the H. nodosa group H. propinqua is shown to comprise two distinctive species, true H. propinqua a tall shrub confined to the Sydney region and lower Blue Mountains and H. pachyphylla Sieber ex Spreng., a small shrub of the higher Blue Mountains and possibly the Budawang Ranges. Accepted names and synonyms are typified where needed.
23875379|A taxonomic revision of Glossocarya in Australia is presented. The following three species are recognised: G. calcicola, G. coriacea and G. hemiderma with G. coriacea described as new. Affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and each species. A key to the species is provided and a detailed description of each species is supplemented by illustrations.
23874019|A reference found in Archivo Histrico Nacional (Madrid) to a place called "Hoya del Tagasaste" ("Tagasaste Pit") on the island of El Hierro for the year 1659, could represent the oldest known quotation on typical tagasaste (Chamaecytisus proliferus (L. fil.) Link ssp. proliferus var. palmensis (Christ) Hansen & Sunding) in the Canary Islands. Ecogeographical studies have suggested that tagasaste is endemic to the island of La Palma. Therefore this finding indicates that either tagasaste was introduced from La Palma as a cultivated species earlier than it was previously believed or that it refers to another endemic Chamaecytisus of El Hierro (escobon of El Hierro = C. proliferus ssp. proliferus var. hierrensis (Pitard) J.R. Acebes) which is now known as "tagasaste salvaje" (wild tagasaste) or "tagasaste de risco" (cliff tagasaste) by peasant farmers of this island.
23874426|A detailed taxonomic revision of Hibbertia Tomentosae Benth. (Hibbertia subgen. Hemistemma (Thouars) J.W.Horn), was prepared on the basis of a morphological evaluation, including a detailed assessment of the highly diversified vestiture. Nine different types, varying from simple to complex fascicled hairs and/or peltate scales, were distinguished and the description of each species includes full details of the variation encountered on the stem, ad- and abaxial leaf surfaces, bracts, as well as the outer and inner calyx lobes. It thus records differences between the vestiture on these organs of the same taxon. Fifty-two species and many infraspecific taxa are described (52 as new), keyed out and placed into two groups (H. melhanioides and H. tomentosa groups) and nine subgroups based on an assessment of the gross morphology and vestiture. All the species have been illustrated. The following taxa are recognised (newly described ones and new combinations are in bold): H. alopecota, H. angulata, H. araneolifera, H. argyrochiton, H. auriculiflora subsp. auriculiflora, subsp. minor, H. axillaris, H. brennanii, H. brevipedunculata, H. bicarpellata, H. cactifolia, H. caudice, H. ciliolata, H. circularis, H. cistifolia R.Br. ex DC., H. complanata subsp. complanata, subsp. ampliata, H. cymosa S.T.Reynolds, H. echiifolia R.Br. ex Benth., subsp. echiifolia, subsp. cernua, subsp. macrantha, subsp. oligantha, subsp. rotata, H. eciliata, H. extrorsa, H. fractiflexa, subsp. fractiflexa, subsp. brachyblastis, subsp. filicaulis, subsp. serotina, H. guttata, H. heterotricha, H. incompta, H. incurvata, H. lepidota R.Br. ex DC., H. ligulata, H. malacophylla, H. malleolacea, H. marrawalina, H. melhanioides F.Muell., H. mollis, H. mulligana S.T.Reynolds, H. oblongata R.Br. ex DC., subsp. oblongata, subsp. brevifolia (F.Muell.), subsp. macrophylla, subsp. megalanthera, H. oligocarpa, H. orbicularis, H. orientalis, H. pancerea, H. pholidota S.T.Reynolds, H. pilulis, H. rufociliata, H. scabra R.Br. ex Benth., H. scabrifolia, H. scopata, H. solanifolia, H. stelligera (C.T.White), H. stirlingii C.T.White; H. suffrutescens, H. sulcata, H. tomentosa R.Br. ex DC., H. tricornis, H. tridentata, H. velutina R.Br. ex Benth.
23888260|A new Eucalyptus species E. wyolensis (series Oleosae, superspecies socialis), is described from the North-West Region of South Australia. It is a mallee or small tree, which is allied to E. socialis by similarities in fruits and buds, and to E. gillii by the persistent, opposite, glaucous, rounded leaves of the mature crown.
23874022|A taxonomic revision of the genus Phyla in Australia is presented. The following two species are recognised: P. nodiflora, and P. canescens which is recorded from Australia for the first time. Affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and each species. A key to the species is provided and a detailed description of each is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flowers.
23874024|A new species of cycad from the Northern Territory, Cycas conferta is described.
23874021|Traditional uses of the desert shrub Eremophila by Aborigines have been documented. Historically, this desert genus has been valued for medicinal and cultural purposes by Aboriginal people in both coastal and central Australia, with E. alternifolia and E. longifolia the most significant species. Seventeen species have been used for a range of medical purposes. These ranged from fever, headaches, rheumatism, general well-being, scabies, to the initiation of mothers' milk after childbirth. Eremophila species were also utilised during ceremonial rites, initiations, as a form of display after battle and as a shroud during the burial ceremony. Some species were also used as a minor source of food. In Australia today, Eremophila species are regarded as either an invasive woody weed or as a shrub with horticultural potential.
23874429|Ethnobotanical notes from some 29 Aboriginal language groups in the Northern Territory of Australia are reported. Information was collected during field studies between 1986 and 1989. Scientific and Aboriginal names, uses, localities and collection data are given for 318 taxa, representing 191 genera and 86 families.
23874432|Two new Dicrastylis species, D. archeri and D. capitellata are described from Western Australia. A detailed description of each species is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flower branch and analytical drawings of the flowers. The affinities and distribution are considered.
23872221|The 25 species of Cyperus recorded in South Australia are considered in terms of their distribution ranges. It is concluded that C. bulbosus, C. difformis, C. exaltatus, C. iria, C. pygmaeus, C. rotundus ssp. retzii and C. squarrosus range through the tropics, extending southwards to the eremaean zone of South Australia; and C. clarus, C. cunninghamii, C. dactylotes, C. gilesii, C. gunnii, C. gymnocaulos, C. rigidellus, C. rutilans, C. vaginatus and C. victoriensis are endemic to Australia. Of the remainder, C. arenarius, C. congestus, C. eragrostis, C. flabelliformis, C. laevigatus and C. tenellus are considered to be introduced to Australia, whereas C. brevifolius, C. rotundus and C. sanguinolentus are probably native to eastern Australia but introduced to South Australia. It is suggested that there are no natural disjunctions of species between temperate Australia and other temperate areas. Those that have been recorded are due to misidentification or other errors.
23874294|Prasophyllum laxum R.J.Bates, a rare local endemic leek orchid from southern Eyre Peninsula, South Australia, is described as new and illustrations and a key to related South Australian species are provided.
23874201|Nine species of Wurmbea Thunb. are recognised in South Australia. W. biglandulosa (R. Br.)Macfarlane, W. deserticola Macfarlane and W. sinora Macfarlane are recorded for the first time; Wurmbea biglandulosa ssp. flindersica, W. centralis ssp. australis, W. decumbens, W. dioica ssp. citrina, W. dioica ssp. lacunaria, W. latifolia ssp. vanessae and W. stellata are described. A key, together with notes on each species is provided.
23874136|A new species Nicotiana burbidgeae Symon is described from northern South Australia, with the chromosome number n = 21.
23874091|The delimitation of sect. Psilorhegma is clarified by the exclusion of one non-Australian species Cassia divaricata Nees & Bl. A Gondwanic origin of the section is supported. Morphological characters are discussed in detail and three series are recognised. Detailed analyses of two hybrid swarms in ser. Subverrucosae lead to the specific and subspecific concepts adopted here. A possible history of this series is then discussed. The taxonomic revision considers 44 taxa in 16 species, one of which is first described here. 10 new subspecies are described. Of those species previously described, 14 are transferred from Cassia to Senna, and 19 are reduced to subspecific rank, while 2 varieties are now recognised as subspecies. New taxa are: Senna ser. Oligocladae Randell; S. procumbens Randell; S. artemisioides subspp. filifolia Randell; petiolaris Randell; alicia Randell; quadrifolia Randell; glaucifolia Randell; stricta Randell; and symonii Randell; S. cardiosperma subspp. flexuosa Randell; gawlerensis Randell; and microphylla Randell. New combinations are: Senna ser. Interglandulosae (Benth.) Randell; and Senna ser. Subverrucosae (Benth.) Randell; S. surattensis subspp. sulfurea (Colladon) Randell; and retusa (J. Vogel) Randell; S. acclinis (F.Muell.) Randell; S. odorata (Morris) Randell; S. aciphylla (Benth.) Randell; S. coronilloides (Benth.) Randell; S. costata (J.F. Bailey and C. White) Randell; S. glutinosa (DC.) Randell; S. glutinosa subspp. chatelainiana (Gaudich.) Randell;  luerssenii (Domin) Randell; pruinosa (F. Muell.) Randell; charlesiana (Symon) Randell; and ferraria (Symon) Randell; S. artemisioides (DC.) Randell; S. artemisioides subspp. circinnata (Benth.) Randell;  coriacea (Benth.) Randell; zygophylla (Benth.) Randell; oligophylla (F. Muell.) Randell; helmsii (Symon) Randell;  sturtii 7(R. Br.) Randell; and hamersleyensis (Symon) Randell; S. cardiosperma (F. Muell.) Randell; S. cardiosperma subspp. pilocarina (Symon) Randell; cuthbertsonii (F. Muell.) Randell; stowardii (S. Moore) Randell; and manicula (Symon) Randell; S. oligoclada (F. Muell.) Randell; S. goniodes (A. Cunn. ex Benth.) Randell; S. leptoclada (Benth.) Randell; S. heptanthera (F. Muell.) Randell; S. curvistyla (J. Black) Randell; and S. cladophylla (W. Fitzg.) Randell.
23872159|Apium in Australasia is reviewed and three species, A. prostratum Labill. ex Vent., A. insulare Short sp. nov. and A. annuum Short sp. nov. occur naturally in the region. A fourth species, A. graveolens L., the cultivated celery, occasionally occurs as a weed. A. prostratum, widespread throughout the region, is divided into three subspecies, ssp. prostratum, ssp. howense Short ssp. nov., restricted to Lord Howe Island, and ssp. denticulatum Short ssp. nov., confined to the Chatham Islands. A single collection from the Porongorup Range, Western Australia, is also tentatively regarded as representing a separate subspecies of A. prostratum. Two varieties of ssp. prostratum, namely var. prostratum and var. filiforme (A. Rich.) Kirk are distinguished. Both varieties occur in Australia and New Zealand. A. annuum, the only annual in the genus, is confined to Australia. A. insulare occurs on Lord Howe Island and islands of Bass Strait. A. australe Pet.-Thou., to which Australasian populations have often been referred, is not considered to occur in the region.
23874134|A taxonomic revision of Microtis is presented in which nine species are recognised; M. globula is described as new. M. brownii, M. magnadenia and M. truncata are placed in synonymy with M. rara. M. media is treated as a synonym of M. unifolia. The biology, taxonomic affinities and distribution are considered for each species, a key is provided and a detailed description of each species is supplemented with illustrations.
23874304|The new species, Teucrium reidii Toelken & D.Dean Cunn., is here described and illustrated, and the generic key for the Flora of South Australia is amended.
23890934|The taxa in the recently published 'Flora of South Australia' are analysed quantitatively in different ways and compared with those found in Victoria, Australia, as well as the world. A high percentage of naturalised taxa and low number of endemics are characteristic of the S. Australian flora which shares many taxa with surrounding territories. The largest families and genera are tabulated. An attempt is also made to assess the advances in knowledge made during the past 60 years in order to establish the present level of understanding of the S. Australian flora.
23873838|Prasophyllum goldsackii, sp. nov., is described from Eyre and Yorke Peninsulas, South Australia. It appears to be close to P. fitzgeraldii R.S. Rogers & Maiden.
23874069|Cryptandra uncinata (F. Muell. ex Baillon) Grn. is shown to be a synonym of Eremophila sturtii R. Br. and the history of the former epithet is described.
23872257|Plants from South Australia formerly referred to Haloragis digyna are now considered to constitute a distinct species, H. eyreana Orchard, sp. nov. This species has a number of features unusual in the genus, amongst which are its single style and unilocular ovary. Flowers on all collections made so far are male sterile, and reproduction appears to be entirely vegetative. With removal of the South Australian populations. H. digyna is now considered to be endemic to southern Western Australia.
23874445|Goodenia gypsicola Symon a new Goodenia confined to consolidated gypsum is described and figured, six collections are known.
23874290|Illegitimate names used for two species published by Toelken (2010) necessitate the new names H. nemorosa Toelken and H. persquamata Toelken to replace H. heterotricha Toelken and H. complanata Toelken, respectively. The new combination H. persquamata subsp. ampliata (Toelken)Toelken is added.
23874441|Numerous population samples of Acaena in South Australia have been examined. In South Australia three species, A. echinata Nees, A. ovina A. Cunn, and A. novae-zelandiae Kirk, and the hybrid A. x anserovina Orchard have been recognised. The diversity of morphological characters within these samples indicates that the maintenance of varietal names is not supported. Acaena ovina and A. echinata are both variable species and a multivariate analysis indicated that these taxa tend to differ in a number of characters but still show some degree of overlap.
23873817|Wurmbea nilpinna R.J.Bates, a rare local endemic in the Davenport Range on Nilpinna Station in the Lake Eyre region of South Australia, and W. dioica ssp. brevifolia R.J.Bates, widespread in the wheat belt of south-eastern Australia, are described as new and illustrated. W. citrina, based on W. dioica ssp. citrina R.J.Bates, and W. australism based on W. centralis ssp. australis R.J.Bates, are raised to species level. A key is provided for all the South Australian species together with additional distribution records and other notes.
23874299|A new rare arid zone species, Calostemma abdicatum, is described from central Australia. It has hitherto been treated as a north-western outlier of either of its two congeners, C. purpureum and C. luteum. Morphological measurements support the retention of these as separate species and demonstrate the distinctiveness of the new species. Despite the absence of a staminal corona, C. abdicatum is placed in Calostemma and the description of the genus is amended. Notes on habitat, ecology and conservation status are included.
23874020|Two new taxa, Ehretia grahamii Randell and Trichodesma zeylanicum var. grandiflorum Randell, as well as a new combination Ehretia saligna var. membranifolia (R.Br.) Randell, are here published. In addition, the nomenclature of Australian material of Amsinckia is discussed.
23873787|The pamphlet entitled "On the Naturalised Weeds and other Plants in South Australia" (Schomburgk, 1879) is reprinted with detailed explanatory annotations. Suggested misidentifications and other errors are pointed out. Early records and other complementary data have been provided. The place of the pamphlet in South Australian botany is discussed. It is shown that the text was amalgamated from earlier writings of Schomburgk and was heavily based on the 'Flora Australiensis' rather than contemporary field observations or reports. There were major omissions and other errors. A number of plants were included although they were at that time, and in some cases even since then, uncommon or even unknown in South Australia. Publication details, contemporary reviews and later developments are noted.
23874434|Drosera praefolia Tepper is reinstated as a species endemic to the Mt Lofty Ranges and Kangaroo Island of South Australia. A lectotype is selected, and an amplified description provided together with a table comparing D. praefolia and D. whittakeri Planchon. Some historical information and details of the biology of D. praefolia are included.
23874133|A taxonomic revision of Premna in Australia is presented. The following seven species are recognised: P. herbacea, P. serratifolia, P. lignum-vitae, P. dallachyana, P. hylandiana, P. acuminata and P. odorata. P. hylandiana (from Queensland) is described as new and P. odorata is recorded from Australia for the first time. P. serratifolia is reinstated as the oldest valid name for the polymorphic species previously often named P. integrifolia, P. obtusifolia or P. corymbosa. A wide range of material of the non-endemic species has been examined from South-East Asia and Malesia. The affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and each species. A key to the species is provided and a detailed description of each species is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flower.
23874203|The new combination Hibbertia incana (Lindley) Toelken is made. The following taxa are described and illustrated, their affinities discussed and distribution outlined: H. cistiflora N.A. Wakef. subsp. rostrata Toelken, H. humifusa F. Muell. subsp. debilis Toelken and subsp. erigens Toelken, H. obtusibractea Toelken, H. pallidiflora Toelken, H. sessiliflora Toelken, H. tenuis Toelken & R. Bates, H. torulosa Toelken.
23872222|Four new species, viz. Eleocharis papillosa, Fimbristylis ammobia, F. eremophila and Shoenus centralis are described from central Australia.
23872234|Streptoglossa Steetz in F. Muell. is the correct name for the genus currently known as Pterigeron (DC.) Benth. Eight species are recognised, all endemic to Australia. The following new combinations are made: S. macrocephala (F. Muell.) Dunlop, S. decurrens (DC.) Dunlop, S. odora (F. Muell.) Dunlop, S. bubakii (Domin) Dunlop, S. liatroides (Turcz.) Dunlop, S. adscendens (Benth.) Dunlop, S. cylindriceps (Black) Dunlop. S. tenuiflora Dunlop is described as new.
23872223|Nicandra, of which there is only one species, N. physalodes (L.) Gaertn., is a native of Peru and has become naturalized in many tropical and temperate regions of the world. In Australia it is a weedy species occurring mainly in cleared or disturbed sites and on cultivated ground, mostly in the eastern coastal region. A description of the species based on Australian material is presented and its distribution in Australia is mapped.
23890930|A new species of the genus Gymnanthera (Periplocaceae) is described from Central Australia.
23873803|Although Eremophila tietkensii has been considered synonymous with E. latrobei, recent investigations have shown that it was misinterpreted and is a distinct species. The reasons for this misinterpretation are given and a description and notes on the species provided.
43304738|Placynthium australiense P.M.McCarthy & Kantvilas (Peltigerales, Placynthiaceae) is described from hard mesic limestone in south-eastern South Australia. It is characterised by having discontinuous colonies of mainly squamulose thalli that lack a hypothallus and prothallus, as well as comparatively broad, 1-septate ascospores. Three other lichens, Candelariella amella (Hoffm.) Zahlbr., Endocarpon pallidum (Nyl.) Nyl. and Verrucaria calciseda DC., are reported for the first time from South Australia.
23872255|A new monotypic Australian genus, Dichromochlamys, is described in the tribe Astereae. The species D. dentatifolia (syn. Pterigeron dentatifolius F. Muell.), is described and illustrated and a distribution map is provided. The relationships of the genus are discussed.
23873878|Brachyloma ericoides (Schltdl.) Sond. is neotypified. B. ericoides subsp. bicolor, subsp. nov., is described and illustrated from Kangaroo Island, South Australia and compared with subsp. ericoides.
23874509|The genus Alisma L. (Alismataceae) is revised for South Australia, with several populations previously incorrectly identified as the introduced weed A. lanceolatum With. (narrow leaved water plantain) found instead to be the native A. plantago-aquatica L. (common water plantain). The distinguishing features for these taxa and related Alismataceae in South Australia are given and the implications for their conservation and/or weed status are discussed.
23873781|The names Montanoa bipinnatifida (Kunth) C. Koch, M. heracleifolia Brongn. and M. pyramidata Sch. Bip. ex C. Koch are typified or discussed in relation to plants grown in gardens. The three names relate to the same taxonomic species, with M. bipinnatifida having nomenclatural priority. The synonymy of M. bipinnatifida is given together with an illustration and comments on the allied cultivated species M. grandiflora (DC.) Sch. Bip. ex C. Koch and M. hibiscifolia (Benth.) Sch. Bip. ex C. Koch. The status of M. elegans C. Koch and M. wercklei A. Berger is also discussed.
23873842|Variation is documented in Lenbrassia australiana (C.T. White) G.W. Gillett, and a new variety described, var. glabrescens. Additional specimens of var. australiana are listed and described, together with line drawings of both taxa.
23872260|An examination of the food plants of butterfly larvae of Australia shows that these plants belong mainly to families of tropical origin. Australian or characteristically southern plant families provide food for the larvae of very few species of butterflies. The evidence suggests that the larval/plant relationships were already well established by the time Australia received its butterfly fauna from the north and that few species have been able to transfer freely to food plants in new families.
23890929|Some features of the South Australian naturalised flora were examined. The predominant source of naturalised alien species has changed from Europe or Eurasia in 1855 to the Mediterranean and environmentally similar areas at present. It is suggested that this is due to the history of northern European settlement of South Australia and the attendant importation of plants from that region. The majority of presently naturalised plants were recorded in Great Britain at the time of South Australian settlement and it is suggested that regardless of their ultimate origin, most plants would have arrived via Great Britain or, more generally, northern Europe. The majority of naturalised plants have been documented or are suspected to have been introduced intentionally. Most of them were ornamental, fodder or culinary plants. Of the unintentionally introduced species, most were fleece, seed or ballast contaminants. A number of characteristic distribution patterns of naturalised plants in South Australia are recognized. These result from climatic and edaphic features and from patterns of land use. Annuals are the predominant growth form of the well-established species. The majority of the unintentionally introduced species are annuals.
23873905|G. pauciflora ssp. leptophylla circumscribes populations of plants with very slender subterete leaves drying mid green; they are confined to central Eyre Peninsula, South Australia and are closest allied to G. pauciflora ssp. pauciflora. Such leaves are population constant, although on the periphery of the area of distribution of the subspecies there is evidence of wider variation in the form of plants with leaves tending towards the narrow linear flat leaves of ssp. pauciflora which form part of the variation on plants of ssp. pauciflora on surrounding parts of Eyre Peninsula. In ssp. pauciflora and the two Western Australian subspecies leaves differ from ssp. leptophylla in drying grey-green and the leaf margins usually free from each other for their whole length or rarely contiguous for a small portion of their length.
23874296|Lectotypes are selected for three species of Cryptandra, C. mutila Nees, C. myriantha Diels and C. polyclada Diels, from southern Australia. Cryptandra myriantha is the only member of the genus known to occur on both sides of the Nullarbor Plain. It was previously considered to be restricted to Western Australia, but is here reported to also occur in South Australia and Victoria.
23874205|Although the publication date of the first edition of part III of J.M. Black's 'Flora of South Australia' is not known, it is here established that it must have been published prior to 15 December 1926. Since this predates the publication of the names of five species described in volume 50 of the 'Transactions and Proceedings of the Royal Society of South Australia', which was published on the 23rd December 1926, the protologues of these names are here regarded as being published in part III of the 'Flora of South Australia'. Lectotypes for Logania insularis J. Black and L. recurva J. Black are here chosen.
23890932|Pultenaea quadricolor J. Black is shown to be a synonym of P. laxiflora Benth.
23875380|A taxonomic revision of the monotypic genus Huxleya is presented and its affinities and distribution are considered. A detailed description of the type species, H. linifolia, is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flower.
23872160|Ten new species of Eremophila are described from Central and Western Australia, namely E. alatisepala (S.W. Qld), E. arachnoides (SA, WA), E. bicolor (WA), E. biserrata (WA), E. gibbosa (WA),.E. glutinosa (WA), E. ovata (NT), E. purpurascens (WA), E. serpens (WA), and E. verrucosa (SA). Two subspecies are distinguished in both E. arachnoides and E. verrucosa. Each species is illustrated, and distribution maps, ecological, cytological and horticultural data are provided where available.
23873782|Daviesia arenaria, a new species from sandy soils of inland South Australia, New South Wales and Victoria, is described. It was previously confused with the widespread D. ulicifolia Andr. A diagnosis to separate the two species is given, along with an illustration, distribution map and notes on its ecology.
23873895|Within Kunzea sect. Zeanuk, 21 species in three subsections are described and accompanied by discussion on their affinities based on morphological and anatomical evidence. Numerous natural putative hybrids are briefly discussed under the taxon placed first in the hybrid formulae. The paper includes publication of (a) 16 new taxa: sect. Zeanuk, subsect. Arborescentes, subsect. Floridae, subsect. Globosae, K. acuminata, K. ciliata, K. cincinnata, K. clavata, K. glabrescens, K. newbeyi, K. rostrata, K. similis, K. spathulata, K. ericifolia (Sm.)Rchb. ex Heynh. subsp. subulata, K. micrantha Schauer subsp. hirtiflora and subsp. petiolata, and (b) one new combination: K. micrantha Schauer subsp. oligandra (Turcz.)Toelken.
23872048|Eichlerago, a new genus from Western Australia, is characterized. The single species, E. tysoniana, known from only two collections, is described and figured. Eichlerago possesses characteristics of both Lamiaceae and Verbenaceae (s. lat.), and an outline of the history of classification in both families is followed by a discussion of the relationships of the new genus, which is placed tentatively in Lamiaceae-Prostantheroideae.
23874471|Two new subspecies in Myoporum, M. boninense subsp. australe and M. platycarpum subsp. perbellum and two new subspecies in Eremophila, Eremophila bowmanii subsp. nutans and E. divaricata subsp. callewatta are described. The following new combinations are made: Eremophila debilis, Eremophila bowmanii subsp. latifolia, Eremophila oppositifolia subsp. rubra and Eremophila latrobei subsp. glabra.
23874589|Brachycome dimorphocarpa G.L. Davis is reduced to synonymy under B. ciliaris (Labill.) Less., and B. xanthocarpa sp. nov. is described. Two sibling species, one of which is referred to Calotis plumulifera F. Muell., are distinguished within C. multicaulis sens. lat. Olearia suffruticosa sp. nov. and O. pimeleoides (DC.) Benth. subsp. incana subsp. nov. are described, and the new combination O. passerinoides (Turcz.) Benth. subsp. glutescens (Sonder) D.A. Cooke is made. In the Inuleae, Podolepis davisiana sp. nov. is described and the new combination P. tepperi (F. Muell.) D.A. Cooke is made; the affinities of these species are discussed. Scyphocoronis incurva sp. nov. is described and compared to S. major.
23888256|The total number of species of mosses now definitely known to occur in the Northern Territory of Australia is 95. Of these 54 have not been reported previously, 7 are confirmed and 15 are new records for the Australian flora, including two new species (Fissidens darwinianus and F. gillianus); 7 previously reported were based on errors of identification; 6 others remain doubtful, no collections having been seen. Collections representative of distribution and presence in different herbaria are cited.
23873815|Calycopeplus ephedroides is removed from the South Australian census of plants after being recorded as occurring there by H.K. Airy Shaw in a 1980 publication on Australian Euphorbiaceae.
23873843|In 1960 a seedling of Cupressus lusitanica Mill. (Mexican Cypress) was noted with a distinct golden foliage colour. Following planting trials during which the constancy and distinctiveness of the form was assessed, it has been named C. lusitanica cv. Adelaide Gold.
23874278|The genus Prostanthera belongs to the family Labiatae, and is comprised of about 100 species endemic to Australia. With the exception of a few species that have previously been studied, the dormancy mechanism and germination requirements of the genus remain largely unknown. Seeds are characterised by the presence of a mericarp plug and have fully developed spatulate embryos. In this study, seeds from three species (Prostanthera eurybioides, P. behriana and P. calycina) covering both sections (Prostanthera and Klanderia) of the genus, were subjected to treatments including pulse dry heat (80C for 10 minutes), removal of the mericarp plug and combinations of both treatments. Using these approaches, germination rates of 100% were achieved for all species tested. Contrary to earlier reports for the genus, seeds that had been stored under controlled conditions for nearly eight years were shown to be viable and could also be germinated to high levels. Results confirmed that the genus has seeds that are physiologically dormant, and that the mericarp plug plays a significant role in the germination process. Mechanisms by which seed dormancy is alleviated under natural field conditions are proposed.
23874578|This paper describes the conceptual development, use and statistical validation of an objective method by which the performance of broadscale shrub and tree plantings for amenity purposes can be determined. The method provides an evaluation of the performance of specimens in relation to their potential on a species basis. It gives consistent results on the relative performance of species planted at a particular site and under particular horticultural treatments. The paper also highlights the need to statistically test the repeatability of subjective assessments used in other amenity plant surveys, particularly those used for monetary valuations.
23874212|Three new species of the family Aizoaceae are described and illustrated. Tetragonia cristata C.A. Gardner ex Prescott is from Western Australia, Trianthema megasperma Prescott, from the Northern Territory and Trianthema patellitecta Prescott, from the north-western part of Australia. The affinities of these taxa are discussed, distribution maps and ecological data are provided.
23874433|Pleurocarpaea Benth., an endemic genus of the Australian tropics is revised. One new species, P. fasciculata Dunlop, a second for the genus, is described and illustrated. Distribution maps are provided for both species.
23874057|The combination Senna phyllodinea (R. Br.)Symon is made to facilitate the use of the name for those who wish to distinguish it from Senna artemisioides ssp. petiolaris.
23874104|A total of 23 lichen and six moss taxa were collected from soil crusts at 15 sites on calcrete-dominant landscapes in the Maralinga area. Apart from two vagant lichens Chondropsis semiviridis (F. Muell. ex Nyl.)Nyl. and Xanthoparmelia convoluta (Krempehl.)Hale, soil lichens were dominated by crustose and squamulose types. Three families, Verrucariaceae, Peltulaceae and Lecideaceae accounted for 57% of the genera found at Maralinga. No liverworts, and only six moss species were collected. Sites with varying disturbance history were used to examine the recovery of crust cover and floristics over time. Across all quadrats, crust cover ( standard error of the mean) averaged 38.0  3.6%. Total crust cover and lichen species richness increased significantly as time since disturbance increased (P<0.001). Field results suggest that recovery of crust cover to levels necessary for protection against water erosion (30-40% cover) is achievable within 30-40 years.
23873784|A revision of the species of Trachymene in the Northern Territory is provided, with a key and descriptions. Five new species are described, T. hispida, T. inflata, T. lacerata, T. longipedunculata, T. psammophila, and one new combination T. rotundifolia is made for the Northern Territory. A new species from the Kimberleys, W. Australia, T. dendrothrix is described.
23872224|A putative natural hybrid between Prasophyllum archeri Hook.f. and P. despectans Hook.f. is reported from Glencoe, South-Eastern region, South Australia. The differences between the putative hybrid and its parents are tabulated and illustrated.
23872358|Pholidia sargentii S. Moore and Halgania lehmanniana Sond. are transferred to Eremophila and the necessary combinations effected. Eremophila woollsiana is reduced to synonomy under Eremophila lehmanniana (Sond.) Chinnock.
23874199|Pultenaea insularis J.Z. Weber is described from Kangaroo Island, South Australia supplemented by an illustration of a flowering branch and analytical drawings.
23874105|A new rare species of Pultenaea is described that has hitherto been included in P. largiflorens, and more recently, P. stricta. It is confined to a narrow range of habitats on the upper rocky slopes of Tothill Range and one small outlying hill. Despite a strong superficial resemblance to P. stricta, the new species is morphologically distinct and many characters distinguishing the two species are tabulated. Pultenaea kraehenbuehlii seems most closely related to Pultenaea stricta and P. gunnii ssp. tuberculata.
23873841|Four new Acacia species are described from the central Australian region of the Northern Territory, viz. A. ammobia Macon., A. ayersiana Macon., A. macdonnelliensis Macon., and A. olgana Macon. The new combination A. multisiliqua (Benth.) Macon., is provided for the tropical taxon, A. simsii var. multisiliqua Benth. One new record is noted, namely A. laccata Pedley.
23874025|The highly specialised species Othonna gypsicola is described as new and its relationship to the allied O. gregorii (F.Muell.)C. Jeffrey discussed. Illustrations are included.
23874287|Two new species, Hibbertia devitata Toelken and H. setifera Toelken, are segregated from the H. stricta (R.Br. ex DC.) F.Muell. complex. H. glebosa Toelken is newly described from the H. australis N.A.Wakef. complex and the new combination H. glebosa subsp. oblonga (J.M.Black) Toelken is made. All three species have strongly revolute leaf margins. The many local variants of H. devitata, which is a common and widespread species, mainly in South Australia, are described in detail, and some of the convoluted nomenclature of the H. stricta complex is discussed. A key is provided to the South Australian species and subspecies that would have been included in Bentham's concept of H. stricta.
23874280|The taxonomy of Ptilotus aristatus Benl and the related P. blackii Benl is revised and their relationship to one another clarified. Ptilotus aristatus is here treated as comprising two subspecies, P. aristatus subsp. aristatus and P. aristatus subsp. micranthus Albr. & Lally, nom. et stat. nov. Ptilotus aristatus var. eichlerianus (Benl) Benl is synonymised under P. aristatus subsp. aristatus, and P. aristatus var. exilis Benl and P. aristatus var. stenophyllus Benl are synonymised under P. aristatus subsp. micranthus Albr. & Lally. The original circumscription of P. blackii is shown to be a mixed concept (including P. aristatus subsp. aristatus), and this taxon is redescribed. Keys to P. blackii and P. aristatus, and to the subspecies of P. aristatus are provided. Distribution maps of all recognised taxa are presented.
23874507|As a precursor to the fifth edition of the Flora of South Australia, Gahnia halmaturina R.L.Barrett & K.L.Wilson is described as a new species from Kangaroo Island. This species was previously known by the phrase name Gahnia sp. West Bay (B.M.Overton 2685) R.L.Taplin. A revised key to South Australian species of Gahnia is provided.
23890927|Intensive library and archival searches yielded considerably more sources of information concerning the naturalisation of alien plants in South Australia than had been documented hitherto. The material is reviewed chronologically, and its value and the difficulties of its interpretation are discussed. The sources include herbarium specimens, botanical, agricultural and other literature, and records of Parliament and its Select Committees associated with the consideration of noxious weeds legislation.
23872235|Allopterigeron Dunlop, a new genus from Northern Australia, is described. The new combination, Allopterigeron filifolius (F. Muell.) Dunlop is made for its only species; a detailed decription is given with locality records and illustrations.
23874103|Bulbil watsonia, formerly known as Watsonia bulbillifera or as W. meriana cultivar 'Bulbillifera', is more appropriately treated as W. meriana var. bulbillifera, stat. nov.
23873807|An annotated list is provided of plants that appear to be gypsophilous. About 14 species may be considered obligate gypsophiles: Asteridia archeri, Austrostipa geoffreyi, Austrostipa nulla nulla, Calytrix gypsophila, Embadium johnstonii, Goodenia gypsicola, Kippistia suaedifolia, Lawrencia helmsii, Melaleuca nanophylla, Minuria gardneri, Minuria multiseta, Nicotiana burbidgeae, Nicotiana truncata, Senecio gypsicola. A further 233 species are facultative gypsophiles, being clearly tolerant of high concentrations of gypsum but much more widely spread. Fifty-six species of naturalised plants were recorded from gypsum deposits in South Australia in field surveys by the author; all species would be considered facultative gypsophiles.
23875386|Prasophyllum litorale R. Bates, a species previously included under P. frenchii F. Muell. is described as new and a key is provided to distinguish it from related species.
23873902|Manuscript notes made by Hj. Eichler indicated a new species of Zygophyllum, Z. flavum, in the Z. ammophilum complex and 3 new species, Z. tetrapterum, Z. cuneatum and Z. verticillatum in the Z. aurantiacum complex. All are formalised here, but Z. cuneatum and Z. verticillatum have been treated as subspecies i.e. Z. aurantiacum ssp. cuneatum and. Z. aurantiacum ssp.verticillatum. Keys to both complexes had been drafted by Eichler.
23872063|Characters used in Isoetes L. taxonomy are examined for the I. muelleri A. Br. complex. The characters examined in detail include general morphology (based on field studies as well as dried specimens), stomata, megaspore form, size and ornamentation, sporangial characteristics and cytology. Three classes of megaspore types are defined for species of Isoetes producing polymorphic megaspores. A polyploid series in I. muelleri was noted with somatic chromosome numbers of 22, 44, and 55 recorded. This species is considered to be apomictic. These studies indicate that I. muelleri is an exceptionally variable species occurring in a wide range of habitats throughout Australia. I. stuartii A. Br. is shown to be synonomous with I. muelleri.
23874442|Stomate guard cells and pollen grains of 50 herbarium specimens were measured, and the results analysed. There was no evidence of the presence of two size classes of these cell types, and thus no evidence suggesting the presence of two or more ploidy races. High levels of pollen sterility were observed, and the consequences of this sterility in sourcing and managing orchard stock are discussed.
23872047|Two species of Malva L., M. parviflora L. and M. nicaeensis All., both from southern Europe and Asia Minor, are naturalized today in South Australia. A key distinguishing them is provided. Schomburgk's early accounts of the species of Malva naturalized in South Australia are discussed. M. verticillata L. and M. pusilla Sm. are excluded from the present-day naturalized Australian flora, the published records of these species by Black and Eichler for South Australia being the result of misidentifications of collections of M. parviflora; characters separating these species are provided. The variation in the two species in South Australia is compared with published accounts of their variation in Eurasia and elsewhere. Four species of Lavatera L. occur in South Australia; L. plebeia Sims, a variable native species widespread throughout the state; L. arborea L., a naturalized southern European species common in the settled areas; L. cretica L., a rare species from southern Europe and Asia Minor whose status as a member of the naturalized flora of the state is established; and L. assurgentiflora Kell., a Californian species, whose existence in Australia in the Meningie-Coorong area is confirmed, but whose status as a truly naturalized species is in question. A descriptive key to the four species is provided.
23874213|Notonerium gossei (Apocynaceae) is shown to be a species of Heliotropium (Boraginaceae).
23872051|A naturally occurring putative hybrid between Caladenia dilatata R. Br. var. concinna H. M. Rupp and C. patersonii R. Br. var patersonii (Orchidaceae) is reported from Port Vincent, Yorke Peninsula, South Australia. The parents and putative hybrid are illustrated and their differences tabulated.
23874470|Peplidium foecundum W.R.Barker from arid central and south-eastern Australia and Glossostigma cleistanthum W.R.Barker from central and south-eastern Australia and New Zealand are formally named and described.
23874423|A taxonomic revision of Stachytarpheta in Australia is presented. The following six species, two of which are putative hybrids are recognised: S. australis, S. cayennensis, S. jamaicensis, S. mutabilis, S. xadulterina and S. xtrimenii. The putative hybrid S. xtrimenii is recorded from Australia for the first time. The following two species are typified: S. cayennensis and S. mutabilis. A range of material including specimens from South America and Malesia was examined. Affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and each species. A key to the species and hybrid taxa is provided and a detailed description of each species is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flowers.
23872169|Twenty-one species of Melaleuca (Myrtaceae) are recognised in South Australia. Separate keys based on floral and vegetative characters are provided and each species is described and synonymy, distribution maps and line illustrations provided. The following changes to the South Australian species, as treated by Black and Eichler in the "Flora of South Australia" are incorporated. Two endemic species, M. nanophylla sp. nov. (North-western region) and M. oxyphylla sp. nov. (Eyre Peninsula region), are described. M. linophylla F. Muell. is treated as endemic to Western Australia and material previously referred to that species placed under M. dissitiflora F. Muell. Willis, "Handbook to plants in Victoria", vol. 2, 1972, is followed in treating M. oraria J.M. Black as a synonym of M. neglecta Ewart & Wood.
23874303|A list and commentary is provided of garden plants that have survived at the 'Water Gully' nursery site of C.F. Newman & Son, in the Anstey Hill Recreation Park, 20 km north-east of Adelaide. Thirty-five species are considered to be naturalised at the site, include Buddleja dysophylla (Benth.) Radk., Myrtus communis L., Noltea africana (L.) Endl., Prunus mahaleb L. and Wigandia urens var. caracasana (Kunth) D.N.Gibson. Consideration is given as to whether some of the horticulturally rare single old plants that have not naturalised should be regarded as heritage plants in the context of the listing of the site on the State Heritage Register, due to the historical significance of the former nursery and gardens.
23873795|A taxonomic revision of Bergia in Australia is presented. The following ten species are recognised: B. pedicellaris, B. henshallii, B. perennis, B. barklyana, B. auriculata, B. ammannioides, B. trimera, B. occultipetala, B. diacheiron and B. pusilla. B. barklyana, B. auriculata, B. henshallii, B. occultipetala and B. diacheiron are described as new. B. perennis comprises three subspecies. The existing infrageneric classification is considered inadequate and four informal groups based on Australian taxa are suggested. B. ammannioides and B. trimera have an extra-Australian distribution; all other taxa are endemic. A key to the species and distribution maps are provided.
23872355|A taxonomic revision of the genus Crassula in Australia is presented together with a key to the 17 taxa recognized. C. colorata var. tuberculata Toelken and C. sieberana subsp. tetramera Toelken are described while the combination C. colorata var. miriamiae (Ostenf.) Toelken is made.
23872261|A new species Eucalyptus flindersii, the grey mallee or mallee red gum, previously referred to E. morrisii R.T.Bak. in error, and two new subspecies, E. viminalis subsp. cygnetensis for the rough-barked manna gum incorrectly referred to E. huberana Naud., and E. yumbarrana subsp. striata from south of Lake Wyola in the Far West Zone of South Australia, are described.
23874289|In recent years there has been much confusion as to the correct name application for the Australian species of Salsola L. Prior to the late 1990's S. kali L. was universally applied throughout Australia but Rilke (1999) adopted the name S. tragus L. and more recently some authors have taken up the name S. australis R.Br. Molecular studies by Hrusa & Gaskin (2008), Borger et al. (2008) and Ayers et.al. (2008) confirm that Salsola australis is distinct from both S. tragus and S. kali so this name has been adopted for the forthcoming 5th edition of the Flora of South Australia. Observation of Salsola populations in Western Australia and South Australia suggest that Salsola australis is a complex of at least six forms which require an Australian-wide molecular/ systematic study to determine their status.
23890931|Five species of Indigofera, chiefly from central and northern Australia, are typified and provided with full descriptions and a few notes. Of these, two, I. bancroftii (Queensland) and I. verruculosa (Northern Territory), are described as new. The new name I. helmsii (I. uncinata Ewart & Kerr, non G. Don, nec Roxb.) is published, the circumscription and application of I. adesmiifolia A. Gray is clarified and the new combination, I. basedowii ssp. longibractea (I. longibractea J.M. Black), is made.
23873837|A taxonomic revision of the monotypic genus Hemiphora is provided. The affinities and distribution are considered and a detailed revised description is provided for the genus and the species. A habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flowers are also included.
23873788|The first possible records of Acacia peuce are investigated. It is concluded that while Burke and Wills (1861) saw this species at its northernmost locality, the type collection was collected by Howitt and Murray (1862) at a more southerly site near the present town of Birdsville.
23872046|A taxonomic revision of the genus Chloanthes R. Br. is provided. Four species are recognized all typified for the first time. C. stoechadis R. Br. var. parviflora Benth. is found to be synonymous with the typical variety. The affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and each species. A new key to the species is provided and a detailed revised description of each taxon is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flowers.
23873979|A revision of 28 native and naturalised genera of Acanthaceae is presented together with keys to infrafamilial, generic, specific and infra-specific taxa. There is a brief history of each genus and the morphology and floral biology of the genera have been discussed in comparative terms. Past infra-familial classifications have been reviewed and the placement of Australian genera within these is considered. Malesian material and literature have been consulted in order to establish correct names as far as possible; where Australian taxa extend into New Guinea, the New Guinea material has been included in the treatment. Lepidagathis Willd., Hemigraphis Nees and?Peristrophe Nees are newly recorded along with the two generic segregates of Justicia s.l., Calophanoides (Clarke) Ridley and Rhaphidospora Nees. A discussion of the generic delimitation within the complexes of genera sometimes placed under Ruellia and Justicia is presented. Species reinstated are Dipteracanthus australasicus F. Muell. (for Ruellia primulacea F. Muell. ex Benth., Ruellia corynotheca F. Muell. ex Benth. and Dipteracanthus corynothecus (F. Muell. ex Benth.) Bremek. ex W.R. Barker), Dicliptera armata F. Muell. (for D. glabra Decne.) and Dicliptera ciliata Decne. (for D. aff. leonotis Dalz. ex C.B. Clarke). The following new combinations have been made: Dicliptera australis (Brochosiphon australis Nees), Isoglossa eranthemoides (Justicia eranthemoides F. Muell.), Calophanoides hygrophiloides (Justicia hygrophiloides F. Muell.), Rhaphidospora cavernarum (Justicia cavernarum F. Muell.), Rhaphidospora bonneyana (Justicia bonneyana F. Muell.) and Rostellularia adscendens (Justicia adscendens R. Br.). This last name has been reintroduced for Australian material previously referred to Justicia procumbens L., J. clementii Domin, J. glaucoviolacea Domin and Rostellularia pogonanthera F. Muell. Within it, var. latifolia and var. hispida of ssp. adscendens are based on varieties described by Domin under Justicia procumbens L. The following new combinations are associated with changes in status: Dipteracanthus australasicus F. Muell. ssp. corynothecus (Ruellia corynotheca F. Muell. ex Benth.), Rostellularia adscendens (R. Br.) R.M. Barker ssp. glaucoviolacea (Justicia glaucoviolacea Domin), ssp. clementii and var. clementii (Justicia clementii Domin) and under ssp. adscendens, var. juncea (Justicia juncea R. Br.), and var. pogonanthera (Rostellularia pogonanthera F. Muell.). The following new taxa have been described: Acanthus ebracteatus Vahl ssp. ebarbatus, Staurogyne leptocaulis Bremek. ssp. decumbens, Dipteracanthus australasicus F. Muell. ssp. glabrata and ssp. dalyensis, Brunoniella linearifolia and B. acaulis (R. Br.) Bremek. ssp. ciliata, Xerothamnella herbacea, Dicladanthera glabra, Dicliptera arnhemica and D. miscella,?Peristrophe brassii, Hypoestes sparsiflora and H. floribunda var. varia, var. yorkensis, var. velutina, var. cinerea and var. neoguineensis, Sarojusticia kempeana (F. Muell.) Bremek. ex H. Eichler ssp. muelleri, Rostellularia adscendens (R. Br.) R.M. Barker ssp. dallachyi and var. largiflorens of ssp. clementii (Domin) R.M. Barker. All names have been typified and areas where problems are still to be resolved are highlighted.
23873785|A new species of Samolus, S. eremaeus, is described from Central Australia. A key to the Australian species is provided.
23874138|Dalhousie Springs are the largest and most impressive of the artesian mound springs which are scattered along the western and southern margins of the Great Artesian Basin. A checklist of angiosperm plants is provided.
23874468|Centrolepis in Australia is revised and twenty species are recognised. This revision is based on morphological features that are discussed in relation to the biology of the genus. One new species, C. curta, and a new subspecies, C. strigosa subsp. rupestris, are described and illustrated. The new combinations C. monogyna subsp. paludicola and C. strigosa subsp. pulvinata are made.
23874127|A new species of Acacia, A. simmonsiana, is described and illustrated. It has a discontinuous distribution in south-eastern Australia where it extends from Kangaroo Island in South Australia to far northwest Victoria and south-central New South Wales. Until now A. simmonsiana had been treated as a variant of A. halliana, to which it is most closely related.
23874283|Drosera hookeri R.P.Gibson, B.J.Conn & Conran (Droseraceae) is proposed as a replacement name for Drosera foliosa Hook.f. ex Planch., nom. illeg., non Elliot (1821).
23888259|A. undoolyana G. Leach is described as a new species. It is closely related to A. macdonnelliensis Maconochie and also shows some affinities to A. ammobia Maconochie. The species is restricted to the East Macdonnell Ranges of Central Australia. It is considered vulnerable with frequent wildfires identified as the major threat.
23874422|A review is given of morphology, reproduction, ecology and distribution in taxa of mulga. After an acknowledgement of the need for further study, a new classification of Acacia Mill. sect. Juliflorae (Benth.)Maiden & Betche is proposed. Acacia minyura and A. paraneura are described, as well as the two varieties, A. aneura F. Muell. ex Benth. var. macrocarpa, and A. aneura var. conifera. A new combination of A. ayersiana Maconochie var. latifolia (J.Black)Randell is made.
23874300|A new arid zone species from Arckaringa Station is formally described as Olearia arckaringensis. It falls in Olearia sect. Eriotriche Archer ex Benth. and is a distinctive species without any obvious close relatives. Currently it is known only from a single site on a gypseous breakway escarpment and is considered to be critically endangered.
23873903|A history of the occurrence of Stipa papposa in South Australia is given. The species is described together with notes on distinguishing features.
23874056|Many named cultivars of Watsonia were grown in Australia before 1940, but are now lost due to their neglect in horticulture and the absence of formal descriptions. The Watsonia cultivars 'Jessie', 'Leng' and 'SuiLan' are described and the Cronin hybrids discussed.
23872348|A taxonomic revision of the genus Pityrodia is provided. Dennisonia F. Muell. is reduced to synonymy. A key to the genera of the Chloanthaceae is provided. Forty-one species are recognized of which the following 16 new species and one variety are described: P. angustisepala, P. augustensis, P. byrnesii, P. chorisepala, P. gilruthiana, P. glabra, P. glutinosa, P. lanceolata, P. lanuginosa, P. megalophylla, P. ovata, P. puberula, P. pungens, P. quadrangulata, P. serrata, P. spenceri and P. exserta var. lanata. The new combination of P. ternifolia (Syn. Dennisonia ternifolia F. Muell.) is made and P. uncinata var. exserta Benth. is raised to the status of a species. The affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and each species. A key to the taxa is provided and a detailed description of each species is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flowers.
23872258|Five new species of Eremophila, namely E. falcata, E. linearis, E.punctata, E. spinescens and E. undulata are described from central Western Australia. Each species is illustrated and distribution maps are provided.
23873805|First collections of botanical material from South Australia were by the scientists on board the British and French vessels involved in mapping the South Australian coastline in 1802. A background to the collecting of plants and seeds and the illustrating of these plants is given, collecting localities are identified and the scientific outcomes of both voyages are discussed. A comprehensive list of plants collected in South Australia by the British and based on still extant herbarium collections is presented for the first time. A list of plants collected by the French is less comprehensive but their time collecting in South Australia was much more limited and predominantly confined to Kangaroo Island.
23874288|As a precursor to the revised Flora of South Australia, one new species of Indigofera, I. cornuligera Peter G.Wilson & Rowe (with two subspecies: subsp. cornuligera and subsp. flindersensis Peter G.Wilson & Rowe), and one new subspecies of I. australis Willd. (subsp. hesperia Peter G. Wilson & Rowe), are described. Neotypes are designated for three accepted species and lectotypes for seven synonyms.
23874510|The two morphotypes of the Australian endemic Malva preissiana Miq. (Austral Hollyhock) are here regarded as separate, distinct species with the white-flowered M. preissiana a coprophilic halophyte on seabird-dominated near-shore islands, or rarely mainland shores or inland salt lakes used by seabirds. Malva weinmanniana (Besser ex Rchb.) Conran, based on Lavatera weinmanniana Besser ex Rchb., is the new name applied to the more common, pink-flowered, largely mainland taxon. The names L. weinmanniana, L. plebeia var. eremaea J.M.Black., L. plebeia var. tomentosa Hook.f., and M. behriana Schltdl. are lectotypified and their statuses discussed. A key to the taxa and a table of comparisons is supplied.
23874588|Taking into account the recent publication of the new species H. repullulans H.M. Lee from western Victoria and South Australia, it is shown that the name H. ulicina, widely used in the past, does not apply to- South Australian Hakea. The name H. carinata F. Muell. ex Meissner is re-instated for a species endemic to the Flinders and Mt Lofty Ranges and the South Eastern region. H. muelleriana J. Black is confirmed as a distinct species, occurring in drier regions from Eyre Peninsula to the South Eastern region and extending to Kangaroo Island and Victoria. The occurrence of exceptionally broad-leaved forms of this species on Kangaroo Island warrants further biological and taxonomic investigation. H. aenigma W.R. Barker & Haegi, a Kangaroo Island endemic apparently most closely related to H. repullulans, is described. This new species is unusual in its sterility, apparent genetic uniformity and complete dependence on suckering as a means of reproduction.
23875388|Brachyscome coongiensis Munir is a synonym of B. rara G.L. Davis. Notes on the type collections and recent collections are provided.
23872259|Two new species, Daviesia eremaea and D. purpurascens, are described; the names D. benthamii Meisn. and Leptosema chambersii F. Muell. are reinstated, and Leptosema anomalum (Ewart et Morrison) comb. nov. is transferred from Jacksonia.
23874216|Acacia jasperensis J.R. Maconochie, a new species restricted to Jasper Gorge, Northern Territory, is described. Its distinguishing features from A. alleniana and A. praelongata are discussed.
23890925|Eight species and two hybrid combinations within the fern genus Hypolepis Bernh. are recognised in Australia (including Norfolk Island and Lord Howe Island). The name H. punctata (Thunb.) Mett. ex Kuhn is shown to have been misapplied, and material previously referred to this species is described as H. glandulifera, sp. nov. Two species, H. muelleri and H. rugosula, are regarded as endemic. Three species, H. dicksonioides, H. distans and H. amaurorachis, are shared with New Zealand; H. amaurorachis is shown to be an earlier name for both H. australis and the recently described H. subantarctica. Two species, H. elegans and H. glandulifera, extend into the Pacific but not to New Zealand, and one, H. tenuifolia, has a wide distribution in the Indo-Malesian region. Chromosome numbers are newly reported for four species, including n = 49 in H. muelleri, a number not previously recorded in the genus.
23874295|The macrofungal flora of the Stringybark Walking Trail, an 18 ha site in Deep Creek Conservation Park, South Australia, was surveyed over a ten year period. The diversity of fungal species recorded at this small site exceeds that at other locations in South Australia surveyed over this period, suggesting that this remnant of stringybark forest is of particular significance for the conservation of the fungal biota of South Australia. The species recorded are listed, together with their habit, phenology and distribution within South Australia. Data from all South Australian collections made by the authors in the same period and from collections by others deposited in the State Herbarium of South Australia (AD) were used to estimate the conservation status for all named species recorded from the Stringybark Walking Trail. Worldwide, the importance of fungi and the need for their conservation has been recognised only recently. In South Australia, fungi are not currently included in Threatened Species Schedules. Information from this study provides data relevant to selecting fungal taxa to include in these Schedules.
23874064|A taxonomic revision of Faradaya in Australia is presented. The following two species are recognised: F. albertisii and F. splendida. F. albertisii is confirmed from Australia. A wide range of material has been examined from Malesia and Oceania. The affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and each species. A key to the species is provided and a detailed description of each species is supplemented by an illustration.
23873813|The name Malva australiana M.F.Ray, which replaced Lavatera plebeia Sims when Lavatera was merged with Malva, is predated by M. preissiana Miq. The relationship of this earlier name to variation within the species is discussed. The type specimen now falls within the less common white-flowered offshore island morphotype, sometimes recognised previously as Lavatera plebeia var. tomentosa Hook.f.
23873894|The taxonomy of the two species of Lantana in Australia  L. camara and L. montevidensis is reviewed. Affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and for each species. A key to the species is provided and a detailed description of each species is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flowers and map of distribution.
23874207|The endemic Australian genus Aphelia is revised. Six species  A. brizula, A. cyperoides, A. drummondii, A. gracilis, A. nutans and A. pumilio  are distinguished on morphological features. The removal of any of these species to the segregate genus Brizula is not supported.
23873897|Microtis eremaea, M. graniticola and M. media R.Br. ssp. eremicola are described as new; illustrations are provided together with a distribution map. Discussion of variation within each species and suspected hybrids is included.
23874023|A taxonomic revision of the genus Lippia in Australia is presented. Only one species is recorded from Australia, identified for the first time as L. alba. Affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and the species. A detailed description of the species is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flower as well as leaf variation.
23875390|Two new South Australian species of Eucalyptus, series Rufispermae Maiden, are described. E. percostata Brooker & P. Lang is a mallee known from a few localities in the Southern Flinders Ranges. It has affinities with E. dumosa and E. pileata but differs from the former mainly by the strongly ribbed operculum wider than the hypanthium, and from the latter by dull and often glaucous leaves. E. cretata P. Lang & Brooker is a mallee or small tree from central Eyre Peninsula strongly resembling E. cyanophylla in gross morphology, but readily distinguished by its prominently glaucous branchlets, grey-green subglaucous leaves, and summer flowering time. A key to South Australian species of series Rufispermae is provided.
23874444|In Randell (1989) Cassia oligophylla F. Muell. var. sericea Symon was synonymised with Senna artemisioides (DC.)Randell subsp. oligophylla (F. Muell.)Randell. However, field experience in the Northern Territory and Western Australia indicates that the taxon is consistently recognisable. To assist those who wish to distinguish this taxon it is here reinstated under the new combination Senna sericea (Symon)Albr. & Symon.
23888257|Information is presented supporting the division of Cassia L. into three genera, and as a result sect. Chamaefistula is treated within Senna Miller. Nine species are shown to have been introduced to Australia. The endemic taxa have been revised and are now recognised as three species, one of which has been raised from varietal rank. New combinations are provided for Senna barclayana (Sweet) Randell, Senna clavigera (Domin) Randell and Senna planitiicola (Domin) Randell.
23873901|Solanum sarrachoides Sendtn. is newly recorded as an alien for Australia. A description, and notes on its distribution, ecology and distinction from related species are provided.
23872161|Biographical notes are given on Roberto Burle Marx, the Brazilian landscape architect and artist. Some of his better known projects are enumerated and his use of Brazilian and other tropical plants in dramatic landscape design is discussed. It is demonstrated that plantsmanship and creativity based on abstract art forms combine with architecture and social need in the works of Burle Marx.
23874128|A new species, Acacia spooneri, is described and illustrated. It occurs in three isolated populations in the central and southern Flinders Ranges, South Australia. Until now A. spooneri has been treated as a variant of A. wattsiana, to which it is closely related, together with A. quornensis.
23874293|Marsilea cryptocarpa Albr. & Chinnock is a new fern from three widely disjunct populations growing in cracking clay depressions in arid central Australia. Superficially it is similar to M. drummondii A.Braun and is probably mistaken for vegetative plants of this species. Marsilea cryptocarpa is readily distinguished from M. drummondii by the dense cluster of very small short-stalked sporocarps that are completely enveloped in cottony hairs. Its conservation status is considered 'data deficient'.
23874285|Taxonomic and nomenclatural changes to three Ptilotus taxa are presented in advance of the revised edition of the Flora of South Australia. Ptilotus gaudichaudii (Steud.) J.M.Black is now considered to comprise three subspecies: P. gaudichaudii subsp. gaudichaudii, P. gaudichaudii subsp. eremita (S.Moore) Lally, comb. et stat. nov. and P. gaudichaudii subsp. parviflorus (Benth.) Lally, comb. et stat. nov. A further subspecies is recognised in P. nobilis (Lindl.) F.Muell.: P. nobilis subsp. angustifolius (Benl) Lally & W.R.Barker, comb. et stat. nov. and its geographical range is clarified. Ptilotus nobilis var. pallidus Benl is reduced to a synonym of P. nobilis subsp. nobilis. Ptilotus spathulatus f. angustatus Benl is also reduced to synonymy under P. spathulatus (R.Br.) Poir. Keys to infraspecific taxa in P. gaudichaudii and P. nobilis are presented.
23890928|The development of the naturalised flora of South Australia has been quantified by examining the number and the familial and generic composition of species in four years of significance in local botanical history and the present, viz. 1855, 1909, 1929, 1965 and 1984. The numbers of naturalised species were 101, 397, 539, 803 and 977 respectively. The last figure includes seven doubtfully recorded species and a further 64 believed to be extinct, not having been collected since 1950. The overall rate of acquisition of naturalised species has been just over six per year. The consistently best-represented families have been Gramineae, Compositae, Leguminosae and Cruciferae, whilst the best represented genera have been Trifolium and Medicago. Similar rankings were found in Victoria and New South Wales. The reasons for this are discussed.
23874130|A taxonomic revision of Verbena in Australia is presented. The following seven species are recognized: V. aristigera, V. bonariensis, V. hispida, V. litoralis, V. officinalis, V. rigida and V. supina. Besides the typical varieties, the following are confirmed: V. litoralis var. brasiliensis, V. officinalis var. africana, V. officinalis var. gaudichaudii, V. officinalis var. macrostachya and V. supina var. erecta. In addition V. officinalis var. eremicola (from South Australia) and V. officinalis var. monticola (from Victoria) are described as new and V. bonariensis var. conglomerata and V. officinalis var. halei are recorded from Australia for the first time. V. officinalis var. africana was reduced from the level of a subspecies, and V. supina f. erecta is upgraded to var. erecta. The following are reduced to synonymy: V. africana synonym of V. officinalis var. africana, V. gaudichaudii synonym of V. officinalis var. gaudichaudii, V. incompta synonym of V. bonarisiensis var. bonariensis, V. supina f. petiolulata synonym of V. supina var. supina, V. litoralis var. portoricensis synonym of V. litoralis var. litoralis, V. isabellei and V. chacensis synonym of V. litoralis var. brasilensis. Three species names typified here are V. hispida, V. rigida and V. scaberrima. Affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and each species. A key to the species and infraspecific taxa is provided, and a detailed description of each species is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flower.
23874137|In two northern Australian species of Solanum the usual berry fruit has been modified to form a censer with wind ballist seed dispersal. The fruit structure and dispersal mechanism are described and compared with similar fruits in other groups.
23874282|Breeding experiments suggest that the occurrence of white (acyanic) flowers in several cultivars derived from Watsonia borbonica (Pourr.) Goldblatt is determined by a single recessive allele. Many Watsonia cultivars have been characterised simply as 'white-flowered'; but descriptions based on several characters are necessary if cultivars with unique genotypes are to be differentiated without ambiguity.
23874297|The status, nomenclature and typification of seven names from the genera Alphitonia Reissek ex Endl., Emmenosperma F.Muell., Gouania Jacq. and Ventilago Gaertn. are reviewed for northern Australia. The monotypic genus Dallachya is accepted for Australia and not subsumed in Rhamnella Miq. Lectotypes are designated for Dallachya vitiensis (Benth.) F.Muell., Emmenosperma alphitonioides F.Muell., Gouania australiana F.Muell., Ventilago ecorollata (F.Muell.) F.Muell. and Ventilago viminalis Hook.
23874511|A review of the species of Stellaria L. occurring in Australia is provided. The genus is represented by 10 species, of which S. papillata C.H.Mill. & J.G.West is described as new, as are 3 subspecies: S. angustifolia subsp. rotundisepala C.H.Mill. & J.G.West, S. multiflora subsp. collaris C.H.Mill. & J.G.West and S. multiflora subsp. nebulosa C.H.Mill. & J.G.West. Two new combinations are made, namely S. angustifolia subsp. tenella (Benth.) C.H.Mill. & J.G.West, based on S. glauca Hook. var. (?) tenella Benth. and S. leptoclada (Benth.) C.H.Mill. & J.G.West, based on Stellaria glauca var. (?) leptoclada Benth. Lectotypes are selected for S. angustifolia Hook., S. caespitosa Hook.f., S. glauca Hook. var. (?) tenella Benth, S. filiformis (Benth.) Mattf., S. flaccida Hook., S. multiflora Hook., S. pungens Brongn. and S. squarrosa Hook. Notes, maps, illustrations and an identification key are provided for all taxa occurring in Australia.
23874239|A revision of the genus Solanum in Australia is presented. Ninety-four native species are recognised, including the following new species: S. ashbyae Symon, S. beaugleholei Symon, S. chippendalei Symon, S. clarkiae Symon, S. cookii Symon, S. eardleyae Symon, S. hesperium Symon, S. heteropodium Symon, S. linearifolium Gerasimenko ex Symon, S. petraeum Symon, S. seitheae Symon, S. terraneum Symon, S. tudununggae Symon and S. yirrkalensis Symon. The new combination, S. plicatile (S. Moore) Symon, is made. Thirty-one alien species are established or are important in Australia. The main part of the work is devoted to a description of each species, with synonyms being listed. Maps of distribution and illustrations of almost all species, comprising a leafy branch, anthers, gynoecium and a fruit cluster are provided.
23874579|An extensive trial of forty six tree, shrub and groundcover species under various irrigation regimes and natural rainfall was used to evaluate the performance of these plants for amenity purposes. Multivariate cluster analysis was used to separate the plants into groups on overall performance under all the irrigation regimes. Nearly half of the species used grew satisfactorily under all test conditions. These plants came from areas in southern Australia which received between 350 and 500mm of annual rainfall and are tolerant of a range of acid and alkaline soils. All exotic plants in the trial performed poorly and most eventually died. Plants irrigated at the optimum rate performed best.
23874430|Chamaecytisus proliferus (L. fil.)Link (Fabaceae: Genisteae) forms a taxonomic complex which is endemic to El Hierro, La Palma, La Gomera, Tenerife and Gran Canaria in the Canary Island archipelago. Forms from La Palma are popularly known as "tagasaste" whereas those from the rest of the archipelago are commonly called "escobn". Tagasaste is the only form which is broadly cultivated in the Canary Islands, and since the late 19th century in New Zealand and Australia. It has also become naturalized in Australia (South Australia, New South Wales, Victoria and Tasmania), Java, the Hawaiian Islands, California, Portugal, North Africa, Kenya, Tanzania and South Africa. Dr Victor Prez, a medical practitioner from La Palma, introduced tagasaste as a fodder tree from La Palma to Tenerife by the middle 19th century. Early introductions of tagasaste from the Canary Islands in the Pacific region confirm the importance of the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew and the Botanic Gardens of Adelaide in the distribution of this exotic species in this region during the last century.
23873796|A taxonomic revision of Clerodendrum in Australia is presented. The following ten species are recognised: C. costatum, C. floribundum, C. grayi, C. heterophyllum, C. inerme, C. longiflorum, C. parvulum, C. tatei, C. tomentosum and C. tracyanum. Described as new are C. grayi and C. longiflorum var. glabrum (from Queensland). C. longiflorum and C. heterophyllum var. baueri f. angustifolium are recorded from Australia for the first time. C. costatum is reinstated as the oldest valid name for the species currently named C. cunninghamii. C. populneum is placed in the synonymy of C. floribundum var. ovatum. A new combination of C. tatei (based on Strobilanthus tatei F. Muell.) is made and C. holtzei is placed in its synonymy. C. lanceolatum is relegated to the rank of a variety under C. tomentosum. The following nine taxa are typified: C. costatum, C. cunninghamii, C. floribundum var. floribundum, C. floribundum var. coriaceum, C. floribundum var. ovatum, C. tatei, C. tomentosum var. lanceolatum, C. tomentosum var. mollissima and C. tracyanum. In the case of the non-endemic species a range of material including specimens from Malesia was examined. Affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and each species. A key to the species and infraspecific taxa is provided and a detailed description of each species is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flowers.
23874059|The Hibbertia aspera group has been re-assessed and the characteristics of the hairs in particular examined in some detail. Eleven species and five subspecies are recognised, illustrated and keyed out on vegetative as well as floral characters. The following new taxa are described: H. appressa, H. aspera DC. subsp. pilosifolia, H. decumbens, H. empetrifolia (DC.) Hoogland subspp. radians and uncinata, H. hirta, H. hirticalyx, H. notabilis, H. rhynchocalyx and H. truncata. The new combination, H. cinerea, is published for Pleurandra cinerea R. Br. ex DC. and H. pallidiflora Toelken is added to the flora of south-western Victoria.
23874067|Many species of the present naturalised alien flora of South Australia were introduced intentionally for ornamental, culinary, medicinal, fodder, hedge and other purposes. The paper discusses these uses. Unintentional introductions occurred through contaminated seed, ballast, fleece, footwear, fodder and packing material. The scant documentation of those processes in South Australia that has been located, is presented. The roles and consequences of intentional and accidental introductions are discussed and compared.
23873906|A new species E. fragosa from south-eastern Tasmania restricted to two sites near Southport and on south Bruny Island on either side of the D'Entrecasteaux Channel is formally described. It belongs to Sect. Striatae and is closely allied to E. striata and E. semipicta. It is endangered owing to its being known from two populations with limited numbers of plants. An outlying population of E. collina ssp. diemenica confined to the summit of a small mountain on the Tasman Peninsula is identified.
23872052|A list of 125 South Australian vascular plants considered to be endangered has been prepared by the staff of the State Herbarium of South Australia.
23874302|An introduction and a key to the 12 species of Aglaia Lour. known from mainland Australia are presented. Aglaia cooperae, endemic to vine thicket on sand on Silver Plains in the Cape York Peninsula of Queensland, is described as new, illustrated and named after the author and naturalist, Wendy Cooper.
23873876|The endemic Australian genus Ixodia is revised and two species are recognized, namely I. achillaeoides R. Br. in Ait. f. and I. flindersica Copley, sp. nov. In addition, 3 subspecies of I. achillaeoides, namely ssp. achillaeoides, ssp. alata (Schltdl.) Copley and ssp. arenicola Copley are recognized. Keys, descriptions, illustrations and distribution maps are provided, together with notes on ecology.
23872225|Three new species of Eucalyptus are described from South Australia: E. calcareana from between the southern boundary of the Nullarbor Plateau and the Great Australian Bight, E. sparsa from the ranges in the north-west of South Australia and their vicinity, and adjacent ranges in Western Australia, and Northern Territory; and E. yumbarrana scattered in the arid west of South Australia. Data are presented for raising E. oleosa F. Muell. ex Miq. var. peeneri Blakely to specific status. All taxa are illustrated, specimens examined are listed, and the species relationships and ecology discussed.
43304743|Two new taxa in Lecidella Krb, are described: L. leucomarginata Kantvilas & Elix, from Kangaroo Island (South Australia) and south-western Western Australia and L. granulosula var. lecanorina Kantvilas & Elix, from Kangaroo Island (South Australia) and the coast of southern New South Wales. Both display the unusual feature of an unpigmented proper excipulum, densely inspersed with crystals. A key to Lecidella in temperate Australia is presented.
23874403|A striking new species, Calandrinia mirabilis Chinnock & J.G.West, is described and illustrated and placed in section Basales Poelln. It is a little known species from the western part of the Eremaean Province of Western Australia and restricted to the IBRA Gascoyne Bioregion. It is unique among Australian species of the genus possessing large multi-coloured flowers with redviolet petals that abruptly change in the lower third to an irregular white band, then an orange red band then yellow to the base. This species has considerable horticultural potential and notes on its ecology, phenology and seed germination are provided.
43304739|Drosera murfetii Lowrie & Conran is a new species from south-west Tasmania, Australia, bearing mainly non-carnivorous leaves and usually several large flowers per inflorescence. It is compared to its morphologically closest taxon, Drosera arcturi Hook., with which it often grows. The two species are described and illustrated, a key to species and a comparison table of characters is provided. Drosera arcturi is lectotypified.
23872050|A naturally occurring putative hybrid between Eremophila oppositifolia R.Br. and E. scoparia (R.Br.) F.Muell. was found at Whyalla, South Australia. The hybrid is morphologically intermediate in most characters between the two species and has a much increased pollen sterility. Illustrations, and a tabulated comparison, of the more important vegetative, floral and fruit features are provided for the hybrid and its parents.
23874398|The new species, Caloplaca gilfillaniorum Kantvilas & S.Y.Kondr. and C. piscatorica Kantvilas & S.Y.Kondr., are described and illustrated, and their relationships with other species are discussed. The closest affinities of the former are with the Australian species, C. kaernefeltii S.Y.Kondr., Elix & A.Thell, whereas those of the latter appear to be with the Antarctic endemic, C. schofieldii C.W. Dodge.
23874204|A new series, Incognitae, is described. It comprises Eucalyptus longifolia, E. cosmophylla and a newly described species, E. paludicola D. Nicolle, a small tree of restricted distribution on central and southern Fleurieu Peninsula and south western Kangaroo Island. A key is provided for the three species of ser. Ingognitae.
23872220|The forms of fruits of the Australian species of Solanum are described and related to their dispersal agents. The succulent berry is the most common, but trample burrs, censer mechanism, capsules, hard and dry berries and a possible tumble weed have evolved. Birds are the most commonly recorded agent of dispersal but marsupials, wild dog, bats, man, wind and water are important.
23873797|Hakea pulvinifera, discovered only in 1949 from a single population and subsequently believed extinct, has been rediscovered. Its reproductive biology and limited distribution indicate that it will require careful husbandry to survive.
23874279|A protocol to induce a high level of root formation in microshoot cultures in the flowering shrub Thryptomene ericaea F.Muell. has been developed. Microshoot cultures were initiated from field grown plants and proliferated in Damiano nutrient medium supplemented with 1.0 M 6-benzyladenine (BA) and 1.0 M kinetin. Adventitious rooting was induced by culturing elongated shoots in 0.7% (w/v) water-agar supplemented with 1.0 mM indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) for 48 hours then transferring the shoots to hormone free basal medium for 8 weeks. Under these conditions, a rooting frequency of 85% was achieved. Plantlets were successfully acclimatised in soil, and subsequently developed into phenotypically normal plants.
23874215|A putative naturally occurring hybrid between Pterostylis curta R. Br. and P. pedunculata R. Br. is reported from two localities near Adelaide. The validity of previous reports of this hybrid is discussed and the characteristics of the putative hybrids and its parents are tabulated as well as illustrated.
23872363|The taxonomy of fifteen Acacia species from Central Australia is discussed. Seven new species are described, namely A. abbreviata (N.T.a possible hybrid origin for this species is considered), A auricoma (W.A. and N.T.a very unusual species due to its possession of stellate hairs), A. dolichophylla (N.T.), A. jamesiana (W.A.), A. latzii (N.T.), A. nelsonii (N.T.) and A. rhodophloia (W.A. and N.T.this name replaces A. sibirica auct. non S. Moore). The following names are here relegated to synonymy for the first time: A. coronalis J.M. Black (under A. victoriae Benth.), A. dentifera var. intermedia S. Moore and A. graffiana F. Muell (under A. hemiteles Benth.), A. dentifera var. parvifolia S. Moore (under A. prainii Maiden) and A. genistoides A. Cunn. ex Benth. (under A. tetragonophylla F. Muell.). Notes are provided regarding J.M. Black's synonymy of A. prolifera J.M. Black (under A. prainii Maiden) and D.J. Whibley's synonymy of A. sowdenii Maiden (under A. papyrocarpa Benth.). A brief discussion of the A. brachystachya group is given (including the species A. brachystachya Benth., A. linophylla W.V. Fitzg. and A. ramulosa W.V. Fitzg.) and also notes as to why A. melleodora Pedley is not treated separately from A. dictyophleba F. Muell. Lectotypification is effected for seven taxa, namely A. dentifera var. parvifolia S. Moore, A. genistoides A. Cunn. ex Benth., A. graffiana F. Muell., A. hemiteles Benth., A. papyrocarpa Benth., A. prainii Maiden and A. tetragonophylla F. Muell.
23874469|Thirteen establishment techniques were tested to determine the effect of weed control, watering frequency and mulches on survival and early growth of tree seedlings in an arid zone near Port Augusta. Fortnightly watering and residual weed control for a 3m diameter circle were found to be the two most important factors, while organic and bitumen mulches were contributing no advantage. Bi-monthly watering was found to be insufficient. Removal of weed competition at planting, without any residual weed control, was of no major benefit, and residual weed control over a 1m diameter circle was also of no benefit. While the advantages of weed control were shown in this work the above average rainfall for the period of the trial suggests that the work should be repeated in a more representative year before the weed control techniques can be confidently used.
23873783|A new species of Acacia (Leguminosae; Mimosoideae), A. symonii, is described and illustrated from South Australia. The species belongs to series Juliflorae sensu Bentham (1864). Further relationship is uncertain but the resemblance to A. longissima H. Wendl. is discussed.
23874590|Senecio odoratus Hornem. var. longifolius var. nov. and S. cunninghamii DC. var. serratus var. nov. are described, and a key to all varieties of these related species provided. S. georgianus DC. var. latifolius J.M. Black and S. minimus Poir. var. picridioides (Turcz.) R.O. Belcher are recognised at the specific level as S. gawlerensis nom. nov. and S. picridioides (Turcz.) M.E. Lawrence comb. nov. respectively.
23872061|The genus Wrixonia comprises two species, W. prostantheroides F. Muell. from Western Australia, and W. schultzii (F. Muell. ex Tate) Carrick, comb. nov. from Northern Territory, for each of which a lectotype is chosen. A key is provided to distinguish the genus from the five other genera recognized in the Prostantheroideae. Both species are described and figured, and because of the very meagre original diagnosis, a more complete Latin description of the second is given.
23873875|A taxonomic revision of Australian Callicarpa is presented. Seven species are recognized of which C. brevistyla (Northern Territory) and C. thozetii (Queensland) are described as new. C. caudata and C. macrophylla are recorded from Australia for the first time, and C. pedunculata is typified. C. viridis is regarded as a new synonym of C. pedunculata. The affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and each species. A key to the species is provided and a detailed description of each is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flower.
23875378|In Australia, sect. Senna comprises 7 species, 5 native and 2 introduced, all previously treated within Cassia L. These are divided between two series, ser. Pictae having erect spike-like racemes, and ser. Floridae here transferred from sect. Chamaefistula. New combinations are provided for the four endemic species, S. venusta (F. Muell.) Randell, S. notabilis (F. Muell.) Randell, S. magnifolia (F. Muell.) Randell, and S. pleurocarpa (F. Muell.) Randell, and its two varieties var. angustifolia (Symon) Randell and var. longifolia (Symon) Randell.
23873874|The new genus Irenepharsus with three species is recognised: I. phasmatodes Hewson, I. magicus Hewson and I. trypherus Hewson. The genus is placed in tribe Sisymbrieae, subtribe Arabidopsidinae together with several other Australian endemic genera. An analysis of generic delimitation is presented.
23872045|A key to the South Australian species of Stackhousia is presented. S. monogyna Labill., S. aspericocca Schuch. (typified and reinstated as a distinct species although possibly better treated in a future revision as a race of S. monogyna), S. annua (a new species). S. spathulata Sieb. ex Spreng., and S. megaloptera FvM. (a probable new record for South Australia) and several other probably undescribed taxa of Sect. Stackhousia Subsect. Cincinniferae Mattf. are recognized as occurring in South Australia. Subsect. Cincinniferae and the polymorphic S. aspericocca require taxonomic study in the context of a revision of the whole genus.
23872368|A new species, Heliotropium flintii F. Muell. ex A.S. Mitchell is described and illustrated and a new combination in Abutilon (A. lepidum) based on Sida lepida F. Muell. is made for the Flora of Central
23875384|A new key is provided for the ten species of Microtis recognised for Western Australia. Reasons are given for the reinstatement of M. media R. Br. and an expanded description given. The new combination M. media ssp. densiflora (Benth.) R. Bates is made and a new subspecies, M. media ssp. quadrata as well as M. familiaris, a new species with no close similarity to any other, is described. The occurrence of M. unifolia (Forster f.) Reichb. f. sens. str. in Western Australia is questioned Additional notes are provided for: M. alba, M. atrata, M. globula, M. orbicularis, M. parviflora, M. pulchella and M. rara.
23874286|Choretrum spicatum subsp. continentale Lepschi is described as new. Notes on distinguishing this taxon from C. spicatum F.Muell. subsp. spicatum are provided, and both taxa are illustrated.
23872256|The Australian endemic genus Ixiochlamys F. Muell. et Sond. ex Sond. is revised. Four species are recognised, two of which are newly described, viz. I. filicifolia Dunlop and I. integerrima Dunlop. Illustrations, maps showing distribution and ecological notes are provided for each species.
23874305|Combinations are provided in Pterostylis and Caladenia (Orchidaceae) for new species initially described in the segregate genera Arachnorchis, Bunochilus and Oligochaetochilus. Recircumscription of existing species has led to some new species being recognised for South Australia and Prasophyllum sp. West Coast (R.Tate AD96945167) is now known as Prasophyllum catenemum D.L.Jones.
23874399|Two new lichens, Sarcogyne iridana P.M.McCarthy & Kantvilas and S. meridionalis P.M.McCarthy & Kantvilas (Acarosporaceae), are described and illustrated from sandstone in central Australia and from limestone, mainly in coastal habitats, in southern Australia, respectively. The widespread S. regularis Krb. is reported from Tasmania for the first time. Sarcogyne calcifraga (Mll.Arg.) H.Magn., based on collections from Egypt, is lectotypified, but it is excluded from the Australian lichen flora.
23875392|Within Lindernia a new subgenus Didymadenia with 2-celled sessile glands and 4(5) angled seeds with evenly spaced transverse ribs between the angles is described, together with the new species L. aplectra, L. chrysoplectra, L. cleistandra, L. eremophiloides, L. hypandra and L. tectanthera, and the new combination L. macrosiphonia, based on Rhamphicarpa macrosiphonia FvM. The union of the Australian genus Morgania R. Br. with Stemodia gives rise to the new combination in the latter for M. pubescens R. Br., the new names S. florulenta for M. floribunda Benth. (non S. floribunda (R. Br.) Roberty), S. glabella for M. glabra R. Br. (non S. glabra Oersted ut Sprengel), and S. lathraia for M. parviflora Benth. (non S. parviflora Ait.), and the new species S. tephropelina. Peplidium aithocheilum and Striga squamigera are further new species described.
23874055|A background is given to the genus Tribulopis R. Br. (Zygophyllaceae), an Australian endemic. The genus is lectotypified as are a number of species. Two new combinations, Tribulopis homalococca (Domin)R.M. Barker and Tribulopis homalococca var. alifer (Domin)R.M. Barker are made and three possibly new taxa are described but not given formal status because of the limited material available. A key, notes on distribution and habitat, comments on variability and dispersal of the taxa and their distinguishing features, all or selected specimens and illustrations are provided for all of the taxa.
23874135|A taxonomic revision of Gmelina in Australia is presented. The following five species are recognised: G. elliptica, G. leichhardtii, G. fasciculiflora, G. schlechteri and G. dalrympleana. G. schlechteri and G. elliptica are recorded from Australia for the first time. G. leichhardtii, G. fasciculiflora, G. schlechteri and G. dalrympleana are typified. G. vitiensis and Vitex vitiensis are regarded as new synonyms of G. dalrympleana. A range of specimens have been examined from Malesia. The affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and each species. A key to the species is provided and a detailed description of each species is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flower.
23874106|A revised key is provided to the species of Sida section Sida of Australia. Sida subcordata Span., a Malesian species, is recorded for the first time from Western Australia and the Northern Territory. The species previously referred to S. parvifolia DC. is now referred to the earlier named S. pusilla Cav. and specimens assigned to S. rohlenae Domin var. mutica (Domin)Fryxell are newly named as S. rohlenae Domin ssp. occidentalis R.M. Barker, while S. magnifica Domin is reduced to a subspecies of S. atherophora Domin.
23874126|A specimen inscribed "New Holland Gov. King" (G) is identified as the type of Pleurandra enervia DC., which is then placed into synonomy of Hibbertia procumbens (Labill.) DC. New combinations, H. hemignosta (Steud.) J.R.Wheeler and H. hibbertioides (Steud.) J.R.Wheeler, are published to replace the Western Australian species previously identified as H. enervia.
23873839|A new species of Eremophila is described from Queensland. E. linsmithii R.J. Henderson, sp. nov., belongs to section Amphichilus and is related to E. gibsonii and E. gilesii.
23872351|The taxonomy of the genus Cassytha L. (Lauraceae) in Australia is revised: in Australia there are 14 species, 3 varieties and 5 forms, all of them endemic except C. filiformis, C. capillaris and C. pubescens. The following new taxa are described: Cassytha aurea, C. pedicellosa, C. peninsularis, C. rufa, C. aurea var. candida, C. aurea var. hirta, C. peninsularis var. flindersii and C. glabella f. bicallosa. New combinations are: Cassytha glabella f. casuarinae (Nees) J.Z. Weber (C. casuarinae Nees), C. glabella f. dispar (Schltdl.) J.Z. Weber (C. dispar Schltdl.), C. racemosa f. muelleri (Meisn.) J.Z. Weber (C. muelleri Meisn.), C. racemosa f. pilosa (Benth.) J.Z. Weber (C. racemosa var. pilosa Benth.). An introduction includes discussion of morphology and includes the first chromosome count for a species of Cassytha (C. pubescens: n = 24). The affinities of the species are discussed, their distribution described, a key to the species, varieties and forms provided and a revised description of each taxon is supplemented with drawings, distributions maps and comment on possible evolutionary trends.
23872226|Corrections and 34 new distributional records are listed in a first supplement to the third edition of volume one of J.M. Black's 'Flora of South Australia' (1978).
23874508|Fungi belonging to Boletus section Boletus, known in Italy as porcini, in France as ceps, are prized for their good flavour and command a high price. They are ectomycorrhizal, forming symbiotic associations with a wide range of host plants, and although endemic to the Northern Hemisphere have been introduced into South Africa and New Zealand. We report here that Boletus edulis Bull. has become established broadly across the higher parts of the Adelaide Hills in South Australia in mycorrhizal association with at least three species of exotic trees. ITS sequence and morphological data were utilised to confirm the identity of the fungus and a full description of the Adelaide Hills collections is provided.
23872354|A taxonomic account of Nicotiana in Australia is presented, together with a key to the species and subspecies, and distribution maps. 16 endemic and 1 introduced species are recognized. Two new subspecies are described: N. debneyi subsp. monoschizocarpa and N. megalosiphon subsp. sessilifolia. Two new combinations are effected: N. occidentalis subsp. hesperis (formerly N. hesperis) and N. rosulata subsp. ingulba (formerly N. ingulba). N. exigua is treated as a probable synonym of N. suaveolens.
23874066|A new species E. amphisysepala W.R. Barker is distinguished within Sect. Phragmostomae; it occurs within a few kilometres of its closest ally E. phragmostoma W.R. Barker. The circumscription of the extinct E. arguta R. Br. is expanded on the basis of additional collections seen from the last century. The discovery of several taxa believed extinct or rare in all or part of their range, two probable hybrids, and unusual collections indicating taxonomic problems requiring investigation are documented. Further types of 16 names have been located since the publication of a revision of the genus in Australia in 1982, leading to the recognition of two holotypes and three lectotypifications. Additional synonymies and misapplications of names are provided.
43304742|A review of Hibbertia hirsuta (Hook.) Benth., which is prompted by its recent rediscovery in South Australia, includes a full description and a discussion of the importance of an understanding of the position and number of stamens in a flower to place the species with allied ones. Its affinities to H. dispar Toelken and H. basaltica A.M. Buchanan & Schah, are assessed and its possible cleistogamy discussed.
43575312|A brief outline of the problems with the delimitation of the genus, keys to all Australian species and species groups, descriptions of most recognised species, and notes concerning nomenclatural matters of many names are provided. Of the 87 species here recognised as constituing Brachyscome s. lat. in Australia, 17 are new, as are four subspecies: B. abercrombiensis P.S.Short, B. barkerae P.S.Short, B. billabongensis P.S.Short, B. casstiana P.S.Short, B. dalbyensis P.S.Short, B. foliosa P.S.Short, B. georginensis P.S.Short, B. gilesii P.S.Short, B. gracilis subsp. robusta P.S. Short, B. melanocarpa subsp. thompsonensis P.S.Short, B. microcarpa subsp. darlingensis P.S.Short, B. paludicola P.S.Short, B. rudallensis P.S.Short, B. simulans P.S.Short, B. staceae P.S.Short, B. tamworthensis P.S.Short, B. tasmanica P.S.Short, B. trisecta P.S.Short, B. walshii P.S.Short, B. watanabei P.S.Short and B. whitei subsp. lophoptera P.S.Short. A new genus, Roebuckia P.S.Short, is also described. It contains nine species, five of which are newly described along with some new varieties: R. cheilocarpa (F. Muell.) P.S.Short, R. cheilocarpa var. glabrata P.S.Short, R. cheilocarpa var. integra P.S.Short, R. cheilocarpa var. quobbensis P.S.Short, R. chinnockii P.S.Short, R. ciliocarpa (W. Fitzg.) P.S.Short, R. cuneata P.S.Short, R. halophila (P.S.Short) P.S.Short, R. lathamensis P.S.Short, R. lathamensis var. glabrata P.S.Short, R. lathamensis var. glandulosa P.S.Short, R. nerrenensis P.S.Short, R. oncocarpa (Diels) P.S.Short and R, similis P.S.Short. Lectotypifications are made for the following names: Brachyscome glabra Benth., B. debilis Sond., sieberi var. gunnii DC., B. radicata Hook. f., Silphiosperma Steetz and Steiroglossa DC. New lectotypes are chosen for the names Brachyscome angustifolia A. Cunn. ex DC., B. exilis var. scabrida Sond. and Paquerina graminea var. heterophylla Sond. Notes concerning the previously segregated genera Allittia P.S.Short, Hullsia P.S.Short and Pembertonia P.S.Short are incorporated in this review. Pollen: ovule ratios are reported for most species and a comparative table of character states for all species is presented.
23874281|The South Australian members of the complex of self-pollinated, mostly blue flowered, sunorchids related to Thelymitra pauciflora R.Br. are discussed. There are at least twenty South Australian species in the complex, many of which were only recently published. In addition, seven species are here described as new, namely T. crenulata R.J.Bates, T. hygrophila R.J.Bates, Thelymitra latifolia R.J.Bates, T. odora R.J.Bates, T. orientalis R.J.Bates, T. pallidifructus R.J.Bates and T. rubricaulis R.J.Bates.
23873911|A taxonomic revision of Prostanthera section Klanderia is presented. General chapters on taxonomic history, morphology, pollination, and breeding systems precede the systematic treatment. Fifteen species are recognized of which eight are described for the first time. The new species are P. florifera, P. incurvata, P. laricoides, P. monticola, P. patens, P. pedicellata, P. porcata and P. semiteres. Two subspecies of P. serpyllifolia and two subspecies of P. semiteres are recognized. P. semiteres spp. intricata is described for the first time. Keys to the species and subspecies are provided. All recognized taxa are provided with full descriptions, distribution information (including maps), ecological and other relevant notes. All species are illustrated. Morphological variation of P. aspalathoides, the P. calycina-P. microphylla-P. serpyllifolia complex, and the P. laricoides complex, plus the volatile leaf oil variation of P. aspalathoides, were investigated using the multivariate numerical techniques: canonical variate analysis, principal components and principal factor analyses, principal coordinates analysis, surface trend analysis (contour mapping) and differential systematics. Patterns of variation appeared to be associated with environmental and historical factors in P. aspalathoides and in the P. calycina-P. microphylla-P. serpyllifolia complex. The distinctness of the Kangaroo Island populations appears to reflect the relatively long separation of this island from the mainland.
23874198|This new species is described and illustrated for the first time. It is characterised by the pair of stipules at each node being joined between the leaf they subtend and the branchlet for most of their length and consistently greatly overlapping the leaf base and stipular pair of the node above. It is currently known from two localities approximately 15 km apart in two different environmental associations. New characters involving two types of fusion of the stipules of each pair are used to clarify the affinities of this species and are of potential use in defining generic relationships of the Australian stellate-haired Rhamneae.
23873811|Stenanthemum comprises c. 30 species for small shrubs from south-western, central, southern and north-eastern Australia. Two new species, S. arens and S. centrale, are described and illustrated, and a synopsis and key provided for the seven species of Stenanthemum that occur outside Western Australia.
23872158|Two new taxa of Ptilotus are described, Ptilotus maconochiei Benl sp. nov. from Queensland and Ptilotus aristatus var. stenophyllus Benl var. nov. from the Northern Territory.
23874513|Increased collections from the Hibbertia-rich vicinity of Sydney, New South Wales, prompted a survey of rarer species to publicise the need for more information ahead of the rapid urban spread. Many of these species were previously misunderstood or are listed as rare and endangered. Thirteen new taxa (in bold) are described and discussed in context with the following seventeen taxa within seven different species groups: 1. H. acicularis group: H. woronorana Toelken; 2. H. humifusa group: H. fumana Toelken; 3. H. pedunculata group: H. intermedia (DC.) Toelken; 4. H. rufa group: H. pilifera Toelken, H. pustulata Toelken, H. rufa N.A.Wakef., H. surcularis Toelken; 5. H. sericea group: H. puberula subsp. puberula,  subsp. extensa R.T.Mill. and  subsp. glabrescens Toelken; 6. H. stricta group: H. cistiflora N.A.Wakef. subsp. cistiflora,  subsp. quadristaminea Toelken, H. oxycraspedota Toelken & R.T.Mill., H. stricta (R.Br. ex DC.) F.Muell. subsp. stricta,  subsp. furcatula Toelken, H. sulcinervis Toelken; 7. H. strigosa group: H. strigosa Toelken.
23874214|Crassula sieberiana subsp. rubinea Toelken is described from New South Wales. The combination C. colorata var. acuminata (Reader) Toelken is published and C. ciliata L. is recorded as naturalised in South Australia. Notes and additions to the previously published key (Toelken, 1981) are included.
23874200|A new species of Duboisia, D. arenitensis Craven, Lepschi & Haegi, is described from the Northern Territory, Australia. The species is illustrated, its distribution mapped, and an identification key provided. The hyoscine and hyoscyamine content of the single collection known is 0.137% and 0.04%, respectively.
23873896|The identity of five Australian species of Bryum, listed by Catcheside (1980) as Bryum species AE, has been determined and their taxonomy is discussed. B. species A is B. sullivanii C. Muell., B. species B is Rosulabryum subtomentosum (Hampe)Spence, B. species C, a new species, is named as B. eremaeum Catcheside ex Spence & Ramsay, B. species D, also a new species, is named as B. sabulosum Catcheside ex Spence & Ramsay while B. species E belongs to the widespread taxon B. dichotomum Hedw.
23872356|The correct authority of Drosera peltata is shown to be Thunberg and a specimen on Herb. Thunberg 7720 (UPS) is chosen as the new lectotype of this species. D. peltata and D. auriculata are variable taxa which consistently intergrade in parts of their wide range. As a consequence, D. auriculata is reduced to a subspecies of D. peltata. A description of D. peltata, a key to the two subspecies and descriptions of each are presented.
23872365|An account of the vegetation and flora is given for the Redcliff survey area and eleven vegetation associations are recognized. A total of 303 species is recorded consisting of 278 angiosperms, 13 bryophytes and 12 lichens. A brief comparison of the Redcliff flora was made with coastal areas to the north and south and it was found that these were much poorer floristically and had less diversity in the vegetation. A number of rare or undescribed species in the Redcliff area are discussed.
23873848|The infrageneric classification of Euphrasia has been radically revised in the Australasian and Malesian regions. Fourteen sections are proposed. Two sections, Pauciflorae and Euphrasia (Semicalcaratae auctt.), comprise two and four subsections, respectively. The sections Malesianae, Cuneatae, Phragmostomae, Pauciflorae and Lasiantherae, and the subsections Pauciflorae and Humifusae are new and the sections Striatae, Scabrae, Novaezeelandiae, and Anagospermae are given new status. The generic type E. officinalis L. is not a nomen ambiguum in the sense of the ICBN; it should be reinstated as the correct name for E. rostkoviana Hayne. The classification of the genus in Australia has been completely restructured, with 42 taxa formally treated. Eighteen species are recognized, of which E. ramulosa, E. phragmostoma, E. semipicta, E. bowdeniae, E. lasianthera, E. eichleri, E. orthocheila and E. ciliolata are new and E. caudata, based on E. scabra var. caudata Willis, is given new status. Subspecies are proposed within four polymorphic species. E. gibbsiae has nine subspecies, of which four are new and four have changed status; E. collina, which has caused much confusion in the understanding of the genus in Australia, has 14 subspecies, four new and nine of changed status; E. crassiuscula has three subspecies, one new and one of changed status; and E. orthocheila has two subspecies, one new. In the highly variable species the degree and nature of distinction and amount of intergradation between subspecies is discussed, sometimes as a result of detailed field study. Clines and a limited amount of hybridism occur within species. Interspecific hybrids are rare. In a chapter on morphology, the taxonomic and, where possible, biological significance of morphological attributes in Euphrasia is discussed. Important characters, e.g. the distinctive habit types in the perennial species, acropetal branch development in the New Zealand annuals, corolla coloration, and the high chromosome numbers of Australian species, have been previously poorly documented or unknown. A number of other characters are redefined to improve their usefulness in classification, while others are shown to be of reduced significance. The origin and diversification of Euphrasia both on a world scale and within Australia are discussed. Cladistic analysis of the genus is difficult at this stage of our knowledge. However, through the postulation of primitive states of a few characters, several relict species are proposed which are remarkable in their scattered distribution in both hemispheres. From the character states present in the proposed relicts, six apparently monophyletic lineages are distinguished. Diversification of the genus seems to have been in at least two phases, one possibly in the early Tertiary or before, the other, from which most extant species are derived, since Neogene times. Apart from the recently derived, highly specialized Sect. Euphrasia, the genus shows no capacity for long-distance dispersal; much evidence points to the need for migration across suitable land. An association of at least two relict species with Nothofagus, which with Fagus has a distribution homologous to Euphrasia, is among the evidence presented for Euphrasia attaining its bihemispheric distribution by the early Tertiary. Deficiencies in the present fossil record allow latitude for this theory.
23874102|Nicotiana truncata Symon is described from desert loams in washes and creeklines in the gibber desert between Coober Pedy and Oodnadatta, South Australia. The chromosome number 2n = 36 is reported.
23874058|E. splendens Rule subsp. arcana Nicolle & Brooker, a new subspecies from south of Millicent in South Australia is described. It differs from E. splendens subsp. splendens in its consistently low, scraggy habit; larger, slightly crenulate juvenile leaves; larger, sessile buds and fruits and the obtuse operculum. E. splendens subsp. arcana is endangered, with a very restricted natural occurrence.
23873780|The endemic Australian genus Malacocera is revised and four species are recognized, namely M. albolanata (Ising) Chinnock, comb. nov. (syn. Bassia albolanata), M. biflora Ising, M. gracilis Chinnock sp. nov. and M. tricornis (Benth.) R.H. Anderson. Descriptions, illustrations and distribution maps are provided, together with notes on ecology and relationships.
23873809|The name Spyridium waterhousei F.Muell. is re-instated for a species of Rhamnaceae (Pomaderreae), endemic to Kangaroo Island, South Australia, that is currently known as Cryptandra waterhousei (F.Muell.) F.Muell. The taxonomic history of the species and of the tribe Pomaderreae is explored and the changing generic concepts are reviewed in the light of recent publications. A lectotype is nominated for the species. It was named after Frederick G. Waterhouse, who was one of the first botanical collectors on the island.
23874592|Swainsona leeana J. Weber is described and its similarities with other species as well as its distinguishing features are discussed.
23874397|The new species Catillaria austrolittoralis Kantvilas & van den Boom is described from coastal rocks in southern Australia including Tasmania. It contains argopsin or pannarin, two compounds previously unreported for the genus.
23888258|A new Brachycome, B. coongiensis, is described from the Lake Eyre Region, South Australia. A detailed description of the species is supplemented by a sketch; affinities and distribution are considered.
23873834|Since the description of Acacia retinodes Schltdl. in 1847, there has been confusion about its identity. Extensive fieldwork has been conducted on this species and related taxa, material and literature examined, and the taxa delimited. Three species are recognised here which previous authors have confounded with varying interpretations under A. retinodes Schltdl., and they are described, illustrated and discussed in full. Acacia retinodes Schltdl. is now considered to be endemic to the Mt Lofty Ranges of South Australia. Acacia provincialis A.Camus, which is here lectotypified, has a discontinuous distribution in south-eastern Australia from the Mt Lofty Ranges and Kangaroo Island, South Australia, the Grampians and Glenelg River to near Melbourne, Victoria; it has become naturalised in Southern Europe and North America. Acacia uncifolia O'Leary is raised for the first time to species level; treated previously as as a variety of A. retinodes Schltdl., it has a disjunct distribution in coastal areas from Kangaroo Island and southern Fleurieu Peninsula in South Australia, King and Flinders Islands in Bass Strait and from Torquay to Wilsons Promontory in Victoria.
23872364|Three new species of Fabaceae, namely, Isotropis centralis J.R. Maconochie, Indigofera ammobia J.R. Maconochie and Tephrosia arenicola J.R. Maconochie are described for the 'Flora of Central Australia'.
23872049|Three species of Eremophila, namely E. clarkei Oldfield & F. Muell., E. obovata L. S. Smith and E. turtonii F. Muell., are recorded in South Australia for the first time. A brief description, based on South Australian material, and a map showing the known distribution in the state, is provided for each species. The occurrence in the state, of E. denticulata F. Muell. and E. goodwinii F. Muell., which were included in Black's "Flora of South Australia," (1957) is considered very doubtful.
23874396|A new lichen species, Psoroglaena halmaturina P.M. McCarthy & Kantvilas (Verrucariaceae), is described from the bark of trees in remnant mallee and Melaleuca thicket on Kangaroo Island, South Australia. The generic affinities of the species are discussed and a key to the Australian species of Psoroglaena, and the related genera Agonimia and Phylloblastia, is provided.
23874298|The Ptilotus parvifolius complex is revised and five species are recognised: P. parvifolius (F.Muell.) F.Muell., P. remotiflorus Benl, P. disparilis Lally, sp. nov., P. propinquus Lally, sp. nov. and P. whitei (J.M.Black) Lally, comb. nov. Descriptions and distribution maps are provided, and the new species are illustrated.
23874197|A taxonomic revision of Duranta L. in Australia is presented. One naturalised species D. erecta (=D. repens and D. plumieri) is recorded from Australia. Affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and the species. A detailed description of the species is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch, analytical drawings of the flower and range of variation in shape of leaves.
23874401|A taxonomic treatment of Hibbertia Vestitae Benth. is presented. The distributions of the species range from near Hobart in Tasmania to tropical Queensland, north of Rockhampton. A key and full descriptions of all recognised taxa as well as selected illustrations are provided. The following taxa are recognised (newly described taxa and new combinations in bold): H. basaltica A.M.Buchanan & Schah., H. coloensis, H. demissa, H. dispar, H. ericifolia Hook.f. subsp. ericifolia, subsp. acutifolia, H. expansa, H. exponens, H. exposita, H. florida subsp. florida, subsp. angustinervis, H. fruticosa subsp. fruticosa, subsp. pilligaensis, H. horricomis, H. intermedia (R.Br. ex DC.) Toelken, H. marginata B.J.Conn, H. mediterranea, H. pachynemidium, H. pedunculata R.Br. ex DC., H. porcata, H. samaria, H. serpyllifolia R.Br. ex DC., H. singularis, H. stichodonta, H. vestita A.Cunn. ex Benth. var. vestita, var. thymifolia Benth.
23874210|A search of collections and early literature revealed that 101 species of alien plants were naturalised in South Australia by 1855. Another thirteen alien species were erroneously recorded as naturalised and native taxa were mistakenly identified as alien species in a further seven instances. All of the species are presented in an annotated list, including citations of relevant specimens. Observations by various botanists on alien plants in that period are reviewed. Of the established species, 90 originated in Europe, and 55 are known to have been introduced on purpose.
23874065|Placenta patterns of about 100 species of Solanum are presented. Considerable diversity occurs with elaboration and eventual division of the placenta. The septum may disintegrate or the development of extra septa and intrusions of the pericarp may occur. Elaboration of the placenta is closely correlated with high seed numbers and disintegration of the septum is found mostly in species with small red fruits. In section Archaesolanum the seeds become embedded in an enlarged placenta which appears to occupy the free space in the locule completely and in some species of section Leiodendra a reticulum develops which separates the numerous seeds singly or in small groups. In subgenus Lycianthes several species have intrusions from the pericarp partially separating the seeds.
23873900|Harnieria kempeana (F. Muell.)R.M. Barker subsp. rhadinophylla Lepschi, a taxon endemic to North West Cape, Western Australia, is described and illustrated. A key to the subspecific taxa of Harnieria kempeana is provided.
23873786|Two new records for the State, C. hamulata Ktzg., a European species previously known only from Victoria, and C. umbonata Hegelm., a native species previously known only from southern New South Wales, Victoria and northern Tasmania, are documented. A key and descriptions are provided for the four species now recognised as occurring in South Australia.
23874026|This new species is described from Western Australia and South Australia from mallee vegetation on shallow soil overlying limestone. The occurrences in the two states are over 650 km apart and separated by the Nullarbor Plain. In comparison with other Spyridium species with the same fruit type, S. tricolor can be distinguished from its South Australian and eastern states congeners by the very large size of the stipule-like bracts which encircle the unit inflorescences, and amongst the Western Australian species by its almost circular leaves with flat to incurved rather than recurved margins.
23874060|Lindernia cowiei, a new species of Subg. Bonnaya from Melville Island, Northern Territory, is described. It is most closely allied to L. tenuifolia, a species from southeast Asia and Malesia which also occurs in the far northern coastal regions of Northern Territory and Queensland. A discussion of relationships and a key and known geographical and ecological distribution of the two Australian species is provided. Variation of L. tenuifolia in Australia encompasses L. viatica, another southeast Asian species distinguished in the past 20 years, but variation within populations in Australia does not support its separation at the level of species.
23873798|Prasophyllum calcicola R. Bates from South and Western Australia is described as new; Prasophyllum macrostachyum R. Br. var. ringens (Reichb. f. ) A.S. George is raised to species rank as Prasophyllum ringens (Reichb. f.) R. Bates; Prasophyllum macrostachyum R. Br. is given an expanded description and the relationship of the three species discussed.
23874587|Sect. Grevilleoides Benth. is in need of revision, the current species often being poorly distinguished. H. ivoryi Bailey is shown to be confined to Queensland, H. eyreana (S. Moore) D. McGillivray to the Simpson Desert and east of it, and H. divaricata L. Johnson, reinstated for South Australia, occurs in central arid Australia, possibly extending to central Queensland; H. suberea S.Moore and H. cunninghamii R. Br. are likely to be synonymous, the latter name having priority. Among H. leucoptera R. Br. and its allies the branching and indumentum of the rachis are important diagnostically; H. leucoptera is variable in floral indumentum throughout South Australia, sometimes has a drooping habit east of the Flinders Ranges, and encompasses South Australian material previously assigned to H. kippistiana Meissner; H. tephrosperma R. Br. is newly recorded for South Australia and its variability in southeast Australia and distinction from H. leucoptera is clarified; H. vittata var. glabriflora J. Black ex J.H. Willis, described from the Mt Lofty Ranges, is reduced to synonymy under H. sericea Schrader, which is likely to be naturalised there; a Victorian record of this variety was based on a specimen of H. lissosperma R. Br.
23872366|The name 'Ganzin Glory' is proposed for the ornamental vine derived from the cross Vitis vinifera L. x V. rupestris Scheele and grown widely in southern Australia under a number of invalid or illegitimate names. This cultivar was produced by Victor Ganzin in France and released by him in 1900 as a rootstock under the code 'ARG 9'.
23873899|A number of new species, both native and naturalised, are newly recorded for Australia. The majority of these, Ruellia squarrosa (Fenzl)Cufod., Hygrophila Lake McDonald, Barleria cristata L., Odontonema tubaeforme (Bertol.)Kuntze and Hemigraphis reptans (Forst.f.)T. Anderson, represent introductions which have subsequently become naturalised. Species previously referred to Sarojusticia Bremek. and Calophanoides (Clarke)Ridley have been transferred to Harnieria Solms-Laub. to give the new combinations Harnieria hygrophiloides (F. Muell.)R.M. Barker, H. kempeana (F. Muell.)R.M. Barker and H. kempeana ssp. muelleri (R.M. Barker)R.M. Barker. A possible new species of Harnieria is described but left unnamed since the material is inadequate, as is a possible new taxon of Dipteracanthus. There are additional notes on Ruellia, Asystasia and Graptophyllum as well as Thunbergia grandiflora (Roxb. ex Rottler)Roxb., Brunoniella spiciflora (F. Muell. ex Benth.)Bremek., Xerothamnella parvifolia C.T. White and X. herbacea R.M. Barker, Dicliptera australis (Nees)R.M. Barker, Hypoestes aristata (Vahl)Sol. ex Roemer & Schult. and H. phyllostachya Bak. and Rhaphidospora cavernarum (F. Muell.)R.M. Barker. New Guinea specimens previously referred to Rhaphidospora platyphylla (S. Moore)Bremek. are synonymous with R. cavernarum (F. Muell.)R.M. Barker.
23874431|A taxonomic revision of the monotypic genus Oncinocalyx is presented and its affinities and distribution are considered. A detailed description of the type species, O. betchei, is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flower.
23890926|A taxonomic revision of Vitex in Australia is presented. The following eight species are recognised: V. acuminata, V. benthamiana, V. glabrata, V. helogiton, V. melicopea, V. rotundifolia, V. trifolia and V. velutinifolia. V. velutinifolia (from Western Australia) is described as new. V. melicopea and V. helogiton are reinstated, with V. helogiton being recorded from Australia for the first time. V. rotundifolia is reinstated as the oldest valid name for the 1-foliolate species previously often named V. ovata, V. trifolia var. ovata, V. trifolia var. unifoliolata, V. trifolia var. simplicifolia or V. trifolia subsp. littoralis. V. trifolia var. bicolor is placed in synonymy of V. trifolia var. trifolia. The following four species are typified: V. acuminata, V. benthamiana, V. helogiton and V. melicopea. A range of material of the non-endemic species was examined from Malesia. Affinities and distribution are considered for each species. A key to the species is provided and a detailed description of each species is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flower.
43304744|A new arid zone species endemic to Davenport Range in South Australia is formally described as Goodenia valdentata P.J. Lang. It belongs in subsection Goodenia and fits within a group of species allied to G. grandiflora Sims. Previously, G. valdentata has been confused with Goodenia saccata Carolin and G. chambersii F. Muell., and characters distinguishing the three species are tabulated. Goodenia valdentata appears most closely related to G. chambersii, with G saccata more distant relative strongly linked to G. albiflora Schldl. by the synapomorphies of crenulatelaciniate corolla wing margins and flattened, short, white hairs inside the corolla. Based on its restricted range G. valdentata warrants listing as rare in South Australia.
23874577|The native vegetation of South Australia is ill-adapted to survive disturbance such as that imposed by agriculture. Yet 10 species unintentionally introduced and 16 species deliberately introduced from other parts of Australia are established to a greater or lesser extent in South Australia. Furthermore, 15 species native to South Australia have survived the disturbance caused by agriculture and in some cases have become minor weeds. Apart from the intentionally introduced species which are mainly woody ornamentals, the other groups consist entirely of plants having herbaceous habits. Of the 50 Australian native plants established successfully in areas overseas with a Mediterranean climate similar to that of South Australia, the majority are woody ornamentals. The reasons for this are discussed in the paper.
23874068|Phebalium equestre is described and illustrated; it is endemic to eastern Kangaroo Island and is regarded as endangered.
23874443|From E. ser. Rufispermae Maiden, a new subspecies is recognised and described as E. phenax Brooker & Slee subsp. compressa Nicolle distributed on Kangaroo Island and the adjacent mainland. From E. ser. Viminales Blakely, a new subspecies is recognised and described as E. goniocalyx F. Muell. ex Miq. subsp. exposa Nicolle distributed in the Elder and Wilpena Pound Ranges. From E. informal sect. Adnataria Pryor & Johnson, E. lansdowneana F. Muell. & J. Brown subsp. albopurpurea Boomsma is raised to specific rank as E. albopurpurea (Boomsma) Nicolle and E. albopurpurea and E. lansdowneana are described under revised circumscription. A new series, E. ser. Vagitae Nicolle, is described to accommodate E. lansdowneana. Keys are provided for South Australian taxa of E. ser. Rufispermae and E. ser. Viminales and maps are provided for E. phenax subsp. compressa and E. nortonii subsp. exposa.
23874591|Several forms in the Teucrium racemosum-complex are re-evaluated and the var. tripartitum is raised to species level as T. albicaule sp. nov. In T. grandiusculum the subsp. grandiusculum and subsp. pilosa are distinguished and formally described.
43304740|Phillip Island wheat grass has been known under many different scientific names. The taxon is now mostly placed in the genus Anthosachne Steud., following recent molecular phylogenetic data. Unfortunately no correct name is currently available under that genus which is rectified here. The new combinations Anthosachne kingiana (Endl.) Govaerts and Anthosachne kingiana subsp. multtflora (Banks & Sol. ex Hook.f.) Govaerts are made.
23873898|Three new species of Phyllanthus known to occur in South Australia are described and notes are presented on their distribution, ecology and conservation status: Phyllanthus oblanceolatus, P. erwinii and P. striaticaulis. Phyllanthus oblanceolatus is poorly known (3KC) and probably a rare plant with scattered occurrences across the Northern Territory, South Australia and New South Wales. Phyllanthus erwinii occurs in rocky localities across central and western arid Australia. Phyllanthus striaticaulis (distinct from P. australis Hook.f.) is restricted to the Fleurieu and Yorke Peninsulas and also to Kangaroo Island in South Australia. A key to all South Australian species of Phyllanthus is presented.
23873877|Four new taxa are described, viz. Daviesia asperula subsp. asperula and subsp. obliqua, D. benthamii Meissner subsp. humilis, and D. stricta. The relationship of the first two species to D. genistifolia A. Cunn. ex Benth. is discussed in detail. D. stricta is compared with its close relative, D. wyattiana, from the east coast. A new combination is made for the tribe Mirbelieae (Benth.) Polhill et Crisp. Pultenaea elachista (F. Muell.) comb. nov. is transferred from Gastrolobium.
23874202|The relationship between S. obtusifolia (L.)Irwin & Barneby and S. tora (L.)Roxb. is discussed. Consideration of biogeography suggests that the latter species evolved in Asia from the former.
23874581|New collections of Solanum from northern Queensland have enabled the problem of the indentity of S. shanesii to be resolved. This species belongs to Solanum sect. Lycianthes (Dun.) Wettst. which has not previously been recorded for Australia. The closest relatives of S. shanesii are found in Central America. A further collection of Solanum sect. Lycianthes from Queensland may represent a new species.
23890933|A combination in Leptosema is made for Brachysema daviesioides and L. aculeatum is described as new. Taxonomy of the Mirbelia species with spinescent branchlets and reduced leaves is reviewed for the 'Flora of Central Australia'. Three species, M. granitica, M. rhagodioides and M. stipitata, are described as new. M. microphylloides is reduced to synonymy under M. microphylla and a neotype is chosen for M. depressa. A key to the group is presented.
23872060|A taxonomic revision of Spartothamnella Briq. is provided. The features shared by the genus with Myoporaceae are discussed. Three species are recognized of which each one is typified for the first time. The affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and each species. A new key to the species is provided and a detailed revised description of each taxon is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flowers.
23875382|Triglochin ovoideum J. Black is shown to be a synonym of T. hexagonum J. Black. T. muelleri Buchen. is endemic to Western Australia, previous records of this species for South Australia being due to misdeterminations.
23874400|This new species of Euphrasia sect. Striatae is known from the Wilson and Harman river catchments of the Pieman River watershed, western Tasmania. It occurs on open ultramafic pans surrounded by sclerophyllous heath and shrubby eucalypt woodland. It was known from a single fragment in the National Herbarium of Victoria collected during the 1800s, but not formally named. Now, recently collected from three closely separated sites, the species is described and illustrated. It is clearly naturally rare, although its conservation status needs clarification through further field survey.
23874107|Two new species, Z. eichleri R.M. Barker and Z. rowelliae R.M. Barker, are described from within the 5-merous group of Zygophyllum species, together with a revised key to this group. Z. halophilum R.M. Barker, Z. reticulatum H. Eichler ex R.M. Barker and Z. aurantiacum ssp. simplicifolium H. Eichler ex R.M. Barker are described from the group of species with 4-winged fruits and a revised key is also provided to this group. Z. marliesiae R.M. Barker, closely related to Z. prismatothecum, is distinguished for the first time. Typifications and notes on other Australian species are also presented.
23874580|A taxonomic revision of Viticipremna is presented. The following five species are recognised: V. tomentosa Munir, V. queenslandica Munir, V. vitilevuensis Munir, V. philippinensis (Turcz.) H.J. Lam and V. novae-pommeraniae (Warb.) H.J. Lam. V. tomentosa (from Papua New Guinea), V. queenslandica (from Australia) and V. vitilevuensis (from Fiji) are described as new. The latter two are respectively the first representative species of this genus from Australia and Fiji. The genus and the type species are typified. The affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and each species, a key to the species is provided and a detailed description of each species is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flowers.
23874586|Selected historical data from 1802 to 1840 are presented to illustrate the extent of European plant introductions in both pre-colonial South Australia and the early years of official settlement. Some other effects such as land clearing and the early movement of weeds are briefly discussed.
23872064|This paper presents a synopsis of the nomenclature of the family Lythraceae in the Northern Territory. Keys to the genera and species have been prepared.
23873950|The native and naturalised plant taxa occurring in South Australia are recorded together with their distribution within the State and an extensive synonymy. Previously incorrectly recorded taxa are included.
23873799|Prasophyllum fecundum R. Bates and P. occultans R. Bates are described from southern South Australia, together with illustrations and key.
23872357|This paper outlines the explorations and botanical endeavour of the famous German-American mediconaturalist, Hans Herman Behr, in South Australia (1844-45) and (1848-49). Five Appendices embrace the following topics: A, Chronology (1843-1855); B, Collection Localities; C, List of plants named after Behr and synonyms; D, Behr paper "On the vegetation at the Murray"; E, Two entomological excerpts.
23874284|Euphorbia flindersica Halford & W.K.Harris, endemic to the Flinders Ranges, South Australia, is described, illustrated and diagnosed. It was previously recognised as Chamaesyce sp. Papillose plants (D.E.Symon 14628). The taxon known by the phrase name Chamaesyce sp. Marree (F.J.Badman 776) is conspecific with Euphorbia inappendiculata var. queenslandica Domin.
23875394|Six new taxa of Hakea are described from the south-west region of Western Australia; these are H. psilorrhyncha and H. obliqua ssp. parviflora, H. pendens, H. newbeyana, H. bicornata and H. horrida. The new combinations made here are H. teretifolia ssp. hirsuta (Endl.) R.M.Barker, H. pandanicarpa ssp. crassifolia (Meissn.) R.M.Barker, H. spathulata (Benth.) R.M.Barker, and H. longiflora (Benth.) R.M.Barker. H. drupacea (Gaertn.f.) Roemer & Schultes and H. denticulata R. Br. are earlier names which must replace H. suaveolens R. Br. and H. rubriflora Lamont respectively, while H. lasiocarpha R. Br. replaces H. dolichostyla Diels. H. brownii Meissn. is a distinct species separate from H. baxteri, while H. roei Benth. is a synonym of H. pandanicarpa ssp. crassifolia.
23872359|Comesperma pallidum and Polygala isingii are described as new. These names are used in the account of Polygalaceae in the handbook to the Flora of Central Australia.
23874206|Seven surface materials on man-made rainfall catchments for single trees were evaluated as to their effect on collecting rainfall run-off to aid tree and shrub establishment on flat sandy soils in arid zones. The aim being to develop a catchment system that can substitute entirely for supplementary watering in arid zones. Large variability in run-off occurred. After nine months residual herbicides were ineffective and weed germination broke up the surface materials and reduced run-off. Dry soil at the time of application of the surface materials also may have reduced their effectiveness. However, catchments sealed with cut-back bitumen tended to give more run-off than those sealed with a cement render or silicon products (silicone emulsion plus polymer latex, and sodium methyl siliconate). The 1.2 l/m2 rate of cut-back bitumen tended to be giving more run-off than the 0.6 l/m2 rate. A catchment size of 4 m2 treated with 1.2 l/m2 of cut-back bitumen potentially substituted for three hand waterings, representing nett cost savings. Also, with this treatment, 2 mm of rain was sufficient to give a benefit to plants in the first year of its application, by shedding 34 l of run-off, providing it falls close to a few other small events or one larger one. The practicality of applying the different surface treatments and the future directions are discussed.
23872367|Ipomoea aequisepala Domin, a northern Australian species previously confused with Operculina turpethum (L.) S. Manso, is transferred to Operculina and the necessary recombination effected.
23874211|Gunniopsis, which includes all Australian species previously included in Aizoon L. and Neogunnia Pax & Hoffm., is revised. Fourteen species are recognised and G. calcarea, G. calva, G. divisa, G. papillata, G. propinqua, G. rubra and G. tenuifolia are described as new. Two new combinations, G. kochii and G. septifraga are made. All species are illustrated and distribution maps and ecological data are provided. Gunniopsis is compared with Aizoon L. and Aizoanthemum Dinter ex Friedr., two African genera with which Gunniopsis has previously been compared or considered synonymous. Pollen, capsule and seed characters are discussed and illustrated. The majority of Gunniopsis species appear to be protandrous outcrossers, while a few are autogamous.
23874129|A new species, Acacia toondulya, is described and illustrated. It has a restricted distribution in the western Gawler Ranges, Eyre Peninsula, South Australia and is most closely related to A. notabilis.
43304741|Three new species are described, two from Sulawesi and one from New Guinea: Rhododendron dissilistellatum Craven, R. gumineense Craven and R. torajaense Craven. The circumscriptions of R. seranicum J.J. Sm. sensu Argent, R. radians J.J. Sm. sensu Argent & Sleumer, and R. javanicum (Blume) Benn. sensu Argent are considered to be excessively broad and the taxonomy of these three species is amended. One new name and six new combinations resulting from realignments in taxonomic status are proposed: R. biappendiculatum Craven, R. cladotrichum (Sleumer) Craven, R. cockburnii (Argent, A. Lamb & Phillipps) Craven, R. extraneum (Sleumer) Craven, R. kinabaluense (Argent, A. Lamb & Phillipps) Craven, R. minahasae (Sleumer) Craven, R. palawanense (Argent) Craven.
23874512|A taxonomic re-evaluation of the H. hermanniifolia group confirmed that it should be segregated from Hibbertia  Tomentosae Bentham (1863). The following taxa are recognised (newly described ones are in bold): H. acaulothrix Toelken, H. hermanniifolia DC. subsp. hermanniifolia and subsp. recondita Toelken, H. hexandra C.T.White, H. planifolia Toelken, H. reticulata Toelken, H. spathulata N.A.Wakef. subsp. spathulata and subsp. pleioclada Toelken. Desriptions, a key to the species and subspecies as well as illustrations are provided. The vestiture and its developments are reviewed.
23872233|Descriptions and distributions are given of the following Solanaceae in Australia: Browallia americana L., Capsicum annuum L. var. annuum, C. annuum var. glabriusculum (Dun.) Heiser & Pickersgill, C. frutescens L.; Cestrum aurantiacum Lindl., C. elegans (Brongn.) Schlecht., C. nocturnum L.; C. parqui L'Her.; Cyphomandra crassifolia (Ort.) Kuntze; Hyoscyamus albus L., H. niger L.; Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.; Nierembergia hippomanica Miers; Physalis alkekengi l., P. ixocarpa Brot. ex Hornem., P. lanceifolia Nees, P. minima L., P. peruviana L., P. philadelphica Lam., P. pubescens L., P. virginiana Mill., P. viscosa L.; Petunia axillaris (Lam.) B.S.P., P.  hybrida Vilm., P. parviflora Juss.; Salpichroa origanifolia (Lam.) Baill.; Withania somnifera L.
23874307|The discovery on the western end of Kangaroo Island of a Goodenia species new to South Australia is reported and its identification and affinities are briefly discussed. The new occurrence of Goodenia micrantha is a major disjunction from the remainder of its distribution in Western Australia and paralells the biogeographical pattern of several other plant species common to both areas that reach their eastern limit at a similar longitude. Although provisionally treated as native, the possibility that this is a recently established alien population resulting from human-aided dispersal warrants investigation.
23873800|A new Ptilotus, P. barkeri Benl sp. nov. from Lake Eyre Region, South Australia, is described and discussed. The taxon is illustrated by a photograph of the holotype sheet and by analytical drawings.
23874306|Reasons are presented for use of the name Avicennia marina (Forssk.) Vierh. subsp. marina (Avicenniaceae/Acanthaceae), instead of A. marina subsp. australasica (Walp.) Everett, for the only South Australian mangrove species.
23873879|Allocasuarina L. Johnson, gen. nov., is recognised as separate from Casuarina sens. strict. and 40 combinations at specific and subspecific level are made under the new genus. Casuarina grandis L. Johnson and C. oligodon L. Johnson are described together with a new subspecies, C. oligodon ssp. abbreviata L. Johnson, and C. equisetifolia ssp. incana (Benth.) L. Johnson, stat. nov. In Gymnostoma, combinations are made for 11 species.
23874301|A new subspecies of Acacia beckleri Tindale, Acacia beckleri subsp. megaspherica O'Leary, is here recognised, described and illustrated. This new subspecies is restricted to the Flinders Ranges, South Australia.
23873840|Two new species of Cycas, namely Cycas calcicola and C. pruinosa, are described from the Northern Territory and Western Australia respectively. These species are allied to C. revoluta Thunb. of Japan and C. cairnsiana F. Muell. of Queensland; all four species have pinnae with a distinctly revolute margin.
23874439|Twelve species and three subspecies are recognised, illustrated and keyed out. The new combination, H. platyphylla subsp. major, is published for H. sericea var. major J.M.Black. The following new taxa are described: H. crinita, H. patens, H. platyphylla as well as its subsp. halmaturina, H. praemorsa, H. puberula, H. simulans, H. superans, H. tenuifolia and H. villifera. H. humifusa is excluded.
43575313|The new name Roebuckiella P.S. Short (Asteraceae) is published to replace Roebuckia P.S. Short (2014), nom. illeg., with new combinations made for the nine constituent species and infraspecific taxa recognised.
23873865|An account of the family Solanaceae in New Guinea is presented. The following genera are naturalised and are represented by 1-2 species only Browallia, Brugmansia, Capsicum, Cestrum, Cyphomandra, Datura, Lycopersicon, Nicandra, Nicotiana and Physalis. Lycianthes is treated as a subgenus of Solanum. The genus Solanum with 59 species includes 7 alien species either cultivated, naturalised or weedy. Of the 52 native species, the following are described as new: S. abortivum Symon S. anfractum Symon, S. atheniae Symon, S. bitterianum Symon, S. borgmannii Symon, S. dendropilosum Symon, S. denseaculeatum Symon, S. expedunculatum Symon, S. incanoalabastrum Symon, S. infuscatum Symon, S. mankiense Symon, S. missimense Symon, S. multivenosum Symon, S. nolense Symon, S. papuanum Symon, S. pustulatum Symon, S. rivicola Symon, S. saruwagedensis Symon, S. umbonatum Symon.
23873904|Keys to the species of the informal H. sericea and H. nodosa species groups of Sect. Hakea are provided. In the former group new taxa described are: a new subspecies ssp. sericipes of the eastern and western perimeter of the widespread semi-arid Australian species H. leucoptera R. Br.; H. actites of coastal regions of southern Queensland and northern New South Wales and H. macrorrhyncha of a localised granite area on the Queensland - New South Wales border, both previously confused with H. propinqua Cunn.; H. ochroptera, a northern New South Wales counterpart of H. macraeana F. Muell. from the Dorrigo area; two new subspecies of H. decurrens R. Br., previously confused with H. sericea Schrad. & J. Wendl., ssp. physocarpa from western and central Victoria, the plant naturalised in South Australia, and ssp. platytaenia of coastal regions of eastern Victoria and south-eastern New South Wales. Of overseas introductions till now all considered to be H. sericea, substantial material has been seen only from South Africa, which is all true H. sericea; the few specimens from other countries indicate that H. sericea occurs in New Zealand and Norfolk Island and H. decurrens ssp. physocarpa in Portugal. In the H. nodosa group H. propinqua is shown to comprise two distinctive species, true H. propinqua a tall shrub confined to the Sydney region and lower Blue Mountains and H. pachyphylla Sieber ex Spreng., a small shrub of the higher Blue Mountains and possibly the Budawang Ranges. Accepted names and synonyms are typified where needed.
23875379|A taxonomic revision of Glossocarya in Australia is presented. The following three species are recognised: G. calcicola, G. coriacea and G. hemiderma with G. coriacea described as new. Affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and each species. A key to the species is provided and a detailed description of each species is supplemented by illustrations.
23874019|A reference found in Archivo Histrico Nacional (Madrid) to a place called "Hoya del Tagasaste" ("Tagasaste Pit") on the island of El Hierro for the year 1659, could represent the oldest known quotation on typical tagasaste (Chamaecytisus proliferus (L. fil.) Link ssp. proliferus var. palmensis (Christ) Hansen & Sunding) in the Canary Islands. Ecogeographical studies have suggested that tagasaste is endemic to the island of La Palma. Therefore this finding indicates that either tagasaste was introduced from La Palma as a cultivated species earlier than it was previously believed or that it refers to another endemic Chamaecytisus of El Hierro (escobon of El Hierro = C. proliferus ssp. proliferus var. hierrensis (Pitard) J.R. Acebes) which is now known as "tagasaste salvaje" (wild tagasaste) or "tagasaste de risco" (cliff tagasaste) by peasant farmers of this island.
23874426|A detailed taxonomic revision of Hibbertia Tomentosae Benth. (Hibbertia subgen. Hemistemma (Thouars) J.W.Horn), was prepared on the basis of a morphological evaluation, including a detailed assessment of the highly diversified vestiture. Nine different types, varying from simple to complex fascicled hairs and/or peltate scales, were distinguished and the description of each species includes full details of the variation encountered on the stem, ad- and abaxial leaf surfaces, bracts, as well as the outer and inner calyx lobes. It thus records differences between the vestiture on these organs of the same taxon. Fifty-two species and many infraspecific taxa are described (52 as new), keyed out and placed into two groups (H. melhanioides and H. tomentosa groups) and nine subgroups based on an assessment of the gross morphology and vestiture. All the species have been illustrated. The following taxa are recognised (newly described ones and new combinations are in bold): H. alopecota, H. angulata, H. araneolifera, H. argyrochiton, H. auriculiflora subsp. auriculiflora, subsp. minor, H. axillaris, H. brennanii, H. brevipedunculata, H. bicarpellata, H. cactifolia, H. caudice, H. ciliolata, H. circularis, H. cistifolia R.Br. ex DC., H. complanata subsp. complanata, subsp. ampliata, H. cymosa S.T.Reynolds, H. echiifolia R.Br. ex Benth., subsp. echiifolia, subsp. cernua, subsp. macrantha, subsp. oligantha, subsp. rotata, H. eciliata, H. extrorsa, H. fractiflexa, subsp. fractiflexa, subsp. brachyblastis, subsp. filicaulis, subsp. serotina, H. guttata, H. heterotricha, H. incompta, H. incurvata, H. lepidota R.Br. ex DC., H. ligulata, H. malacophylla, H. malleolacea, H. marrawalina, H. melhanioides F.Muell., H. mollis, H. mulligana S.T.Reynolds, H. oblongata R.Br. ex DC., subsp. oblongata, subsp. brevifolia (F.Muell.), subsp. macrophylla, subsp. megalanthera, H. oligocarpa, H. orbicularis, H. orientalis, H. pancerea, H. pholidota S.T.Reynolds, H. pilulis, H. rufociliata, H. scabra R.Br. ex Benth., H. scabrifolia, H. scopata, H. solanifolia, H. stelligera (C.T.White), H. stirlingii C.T.White; H. suffrutescens, H. sulcata, H. tomentosa R.Br. ex DC., H. tricornis, H. tridentata, H. velutina R.Br. ex Benth.
23888260|A new Eucalyptus species E. wyolensis (series Oleosae, superspecies socialis), is described from the North-West Region of South Australia. It is a mallee or small tree, which is allied to E. socialis by similarities in fruits and buds, and to E. gillii by the persistent, opposite, glaucous, rounded leaves of the mature crown.
23874022|A taxonomic revision of the genus Phyla in Australia is presented. The following two species are recognised: P. nodiflora, and P. canescens which is recorded from Australia for the first time. Affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and each species. A key to the species is provided and a detailed description of each is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flowers.
23874024|A new species of cycad from the Northern Territory, Cycas conferta is described.
23874021|Traditional uses of the desert shrub Eremophila by Aborigines have been documented. Historically, this desert genus has been valued for medicinal and cultural purposes by Aboriginal people in both coastal and central Australia, with E. alternifolia and E. longifolia the most significant species. Seventeen species have been used for a range of medical purposes. These ranged from fever, headaches, rheumatism, general well-being, scabies, to the initiation of mothers' milk after childbirth. Eremophila species were also utilised during ceremonial rites, initiations, as a form of display after battle and as a shroud during the burial ceremony. Some species were also used as a minor source of food. In Australia today, Eremophila species are regarded as either an invasive woody weed or as a shrub with horticultural potential.
23874429|Ethnobotanical notes from some 29 Aboriginal language groups in the Northern Territory of Australia are reported. Information was collected during field studies between 1986 and 1989. Scientific and Aboriginal names, uses, localities and collection data are given for 318 taxa, representing 191 genera and 86 families.
23874432|Two new Dicrastylis species, D. archeri and D. capitellata are described from Western Australia. A detailed description of each species is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flower branch and analytical drawings of the flowers. The affinities and distribution are considered.
23872221|The 25 species of Cyperus recorded in South Australia are considered in terms of their distribution ranges. It is concluded that C. bulbosus, C. difformis, C. exaltatus, C. iria, C. pygmaeus, C. rotundus ssp. retzii and C. squarrosus range through the tropics, extending southwards to the eremaean zone of South Australia; and C. clarus, C. cunninghamii, C. dactylotes, C. gilesii, C. gunnii, C. gymnocaulos, C. rigidellus, C. rutilans, C. vaginatus and C. victoriensis are endemic to Australia. Of the remainder, C. arenarius, C. congestus, C. eragrostis, C. flabelliformis, C. laevigatus and C. tenellus are considered to be introduced to Australia, whereas C. brevifolius, C. rotundus and C. sanguinolentus are probably native to eastern Australia but introduced to South Australia. It is suggested that there are no natural disjunctions of species between temperate Australia and other temperate areas. Those that have been recorded are due to misidentification or other errors.
23874294|Prasophyllum laxum R.J.Bates, a rare local endemic leek orchid from southern Eyre Peninsula, South Australia, is described as new and illustrations and a key to related South Australian species are provided.
23874201|Nine species of Wurmbea Thunb. are recognised in South Australia. W. biglandulosa (R. Br.)Macfarlane, W. deserticola Macfarlane and W. sinora Macfarlane are recorded for the first time; Wurmbea biglandulosa ssp. flindersica, W. centralis ssp. australis, W. decumbens, W. dioica ssp. citrina, W. dioica ssp. lacunaria, W. latifolia ssp. vanessae and W. stellata are described. A key, together with notes on each species is provided.
23874136|A new species Nicotiana burbidgeae Symon is described from northern South Australia, with the chromosome number n = 21.
23874091|The delimitation of sect. Psilorhegma is clarified by the exclusion of one non-Australian species Cassia divaricata Nees & Bl. A Gondwanic origin of the section is supported. Morphological characters are discussed in detail and three series are recognised. Detailed analyses of two hybrid swarms in ser. Subverrucosae lead to the specific and subspecific concepts adopted here. A possible history of this series is then discussed. The taxonomic revision considers 44 taxa in 16 species, one of which is first described here. 10 new subspecies are described. Of those species previously described, 14 are transferred from Cassia to Senna, and 19 are reduced to subspecific rank, while 2 varieties are now recognised as subspecies. New taxa are: Senna ser. Oligocladae Randell; S. procumbens Randell; S. artemisioides subspp. filifolia Randell; petiolaris Randell; alicia Randell; quadrifolia Randell; glaucifolia Randell; stricta Randell; and symonii Randell; S. cardiosperma subspp. flexuosa Randell; gawlerensis Randell; and microphylla Randell. New combinations are: Senna ser. Interglandulosae (Benth.) Randell; and Senna ser. Subverrucosae (Benth.) Randell; S. surattensis subspp. sulfurea (Colladon) Randell; and retusa (J. Vogel) Randell; S. acclinis (F.Muell.) Randell; S. odorata (Morris) Randell; S. aciphylla (Benth.) Randell; S. coronilloides (Benth.) Randell; S. costata (J.F. Bailey and C. White) Randell; S. glutinosa (DC.) Randell; S. glutinosa subspp. chatelainiana (Gaudich.) Randell;  luerssenii (Domin) Randell; pruinosa (F. Muell.) Randell; charlesiana (Symon) Randell; and ferraria (Symon) Randell; S. artemisioides (DC.) Randell; S. artemisioides subspp. circinnata (Benth.) Randell;  coriacea (Benth.) Randell; zygophylla (Benth.) Randell; oligophylla (F. Muell.) Randell; helmsii (Symon) Randell;  sturtii 7(R. Br.) Randell; and hamersleyensis (Symon) Randell; S. cardiosperma (F. Muell.) Randell; S. cardiosperma subspp. pilocarina (Symon) Randell; cuthbertsonii (F. Muell.) Randell; stowardii (S. Moore) Randell; and manicula (Symon) Randell; S. oligoclada (F. Muell.) Randell; S. goniodes (A. Cunn. ex Benth.) Randell; S. leptoclada (Benth.) Randell; S. heptanthera (F. Muell.) Randell; S. curvistyla (J. Black) Randell; and S. cladophylla (W. Fitzg.) Randell.
23872159|Apium in Australasia is reviewed and three species, A. prostratum Labill. ex Vent., A. insulare Short sp. nov. and A. annuum Short sp. nov. occur naturally in the region. A fourth species, A. graveolens L., the cultivated celery, occasionally occurs as a weed. A. prostratum, widespread throughout the region, is divided into three subspecies, ssp. prostratum, ssp. howense Short ssp. nov., restricted to Lord Howe Island, and ssp. denticulatum Short ssp. nov., confined to the Chatham Islands. A single collection from the Porongorup Range, Western Australia, is also tentatively regarded as representing a separate subspecies of A. prostratum. Two varieties of ssp. prostratum, namely var. prostratum and var. filiforme (A. Rich.) Kirk are distinguished. Both varieties occur in Australia and New Zealand. A. annuum, the only annual in the genus, is confined to Australia. A. insulare occurs on Lord Howe Island and islands of Bass Strait. A. australe Pet.-Thou., to which Australasian populations have often been referred, is not considered to occur in the region.
23874134|A taxonomic revision of Microtis is presented in which nine species are recognised; M. globula is described as new. M. brownii, M. magnadenia and M. truncata are placed in synonymy with M. rara. M. media is treated as a synonym of M. unifolia. The biology, taxonomic affinities and distribution are considered for each species, a key is provided and a detailed description of each species is supplemented with illustrations.
23874304|The new species, Teucrium reidii Toelken & D.Dean Cunn., is here described and illustrated, and the generic key for the Flora of South Australia is amended.
23890934|The taxa in the recently published 'Flora of South Australia' are analysed quantitatively in different ways and compared with those found in Victoria, Australia, as well as the world. A high percentage of naturalised taxa and low number of endemics are characteristic of the S. Australian flora which shares many taxa with surrounding territories. The largest families and genera are tabulated. An attempt is also made to assess the advances in knowledge made during the past 60 years in order to establish the present level of understanding of the S. Australian flora.
23873838|Prasophyllum goldsackii, sp. nov., is described from Eyre and Yorke Peninsulas, South Australia. It appears to be close to P. fitzgeraldii R.S. Rogers & Maiden.
23874069|Cryptandra uncinata (F. Muell. ex Baillon) Grn. is shown to be a synonym of Eremophila sturtii R. Br. and the history of the former epithet is described.
23872257|Plants from South Australia formerly referred to Haloragis digyna are now considered to constitute a distinct species, H. eyreana Orchard, sp. nov. This species has a number of features unusual in the genus, amongst which are its single style and unilocular ovary. Flowers on all collections made so far are male sterile, and reproduction appears to be entirely vegetative. With removal of the South Australian populations. H. digyna is now considered to be endemic to southern Western Australia.
23874445|Goodenia gypsicola Symon a new Goodenia confined to consolidated gypsum is described and figured, six collections are known.
23874290|Illegitimate names used for two species published by Toelken (2010) necessitate the new names H. nemorosa Toelken and H. persquamata Toelken to replace H. heterotricha Toelken and H. complanata Toelken, respectively. The new combination H. persquamata subsp. ampliata (Toelken)Toelken is added.
23874441|Numerous population samples of Acaena in South Australia have been examined. In South Australia three species, A. echinata Nees, A. ovina A. Cunn, and A. novae-zelandiae Kirk, and the hybrid A. x anserovina Orchard have been recognised. The diversity of morphological characters within these samples indicates that the maintenance of varietal names is not supported. Acaena ovina and A. echinata are both variable species and a multivariate analysis indicated that these taxa tend to differ in a number of characters but still show some degree of overlap.
23873817|Wurmbea nilpinna R.J.Bates, a rare local endemic in the Davenport Range on Nilpinna Station in the Lake Eyre region of South Australia, and W. dioica ssp. brevifolia R.J.Bates, widespread in the wheat belt of south-eastern Australia, are described as new and illustrated. W. citrina, based on W. dioica ssp. citrina R.J.Bates, and W. australism based on W. centralis ssp. australis R.J.Bates, are raised to species level. A key is provided for all the South Australian species together with additional distribution records and other notes.
23874299|A new rare arid zone species, Calostemma abdicatum, is described from central Australia. It has hitherto been treated as a north-western outlier of either of its two congeners, C. purpureum and C. luteum. Morphological measurements support the retention of these as separate species and demonstrate the distinctiveness of the new species. Despite the absence of a staminal corona, C. abdicatum is placed in Calostemma and the description of the genus is amended. Notes on habitat, ecology and conservation status are included.
23874020|Two new taxa, Ehretia grahamii Randell and Trichodesma zeylanicum var. grandiflorum Randell, as well as a new combination Ehretia saligna var. membranifolia (R.Br.) Randell, are here published. In addition, the nomenclature of Australian material of Amsinckia is discussed.
23873787|The pamphlet entitled "On the Naturalised Weeds and other Plants in South Australia" (Schomburgk, 1879) is reprinted with detailed explanatory annotations. Suggested misidentifications and other errors are pointed out. Early records and other complementary data have been provided. The place of the pamphlet in South Australian botany is discussed. It is shown that the text was amalgamated from earlier writings of Schomburgk and was heavily based on the 'Flora Australiensis' rather than contemporary field observations or reports. There were major omissions and other errors. A number of plants were included although they were at that time, and in some cases even since then, uncommon or even unknown in South Australia. Publication details, contemporary reviews and later developments are noted.
23874434|Drosera praefolia Tepper is reinstated as a species endemic to the Mt Lofty Ranges and Kangaroo Island of South Australia. A lectotype is selected, and an amplified description provided together with a table comparing D. praefolia and D. whittakeri Planchon. Some historical information and details of the biology of D. praefolia are included.
23874133|A taxonomic revision of Premna in Australia is presented. The following seven species are recognised: P. herbacea, P. serratifolia, P. lignum-vitae, P. dallachyana, P. hylandiana, P. acuminata and P. odorata. P. hylandiana (from Queensland) is described as new and P. odorata is recorded from Australia for the first time. P. serratifolia is reinstated as the oldest valid name for the polymorphic species previously often named P. integrifolia, P. obtusifolia or P. corymbosa. A wide range of material of the non-endemic species has been examined from South-East Asia and Malesia. The affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and each species. A key to the species is provided and a detailed description of each species is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flower.
23874203|The new combination Hibbertia incana (Lindley) Toelken is made. The following taxa are described and illustrated, their affinities discussed and distribution outlined: H. cistiflora N.A. Wakef. subsp. rostrata Toelken, H. humifusa F. Muell. subsp. debilis Toelken and subsp. erigens Toelken, H. obtusibractea Toelken, H. pallidiflora Toelken, H. sessiliflora Toelken, H. tenuis Toelken & R. Bates, H. torulosa Toelken.
23872222|Four new species, viz. Eleocharis papillosa, Fimbristylis ammobia, F. eremophila and Shoenus centralis are described from central Australia.
23872234|Streptoglossa Steetz in F. Muell. is the correct name for the genus currently known as Pterigeron (DC.) Benth. Eight species are recognised, all endemic to Australia. The following new combinations are made: S. macrocephala (F. Muell.) Dunlop, S. decurrens (DC.) Dunlop, S. odora (F. Muell.) Dunlop, S. bubakii (Domin) Dunlop, S. liatroides (Turcz.) Dunlop, S. adscendens (Benth.) Dunlop, S. cylindriceps (Black) Dunlop. S. tenuiflora Dunlop is described as new.
23872223|Nicandra, of which there is only one species, N. physalodes (L.) Gaertn., is a native of Peru and has become naturalized in many tropical and temperate regions of the world. In Australia it is a weedy species occurring mainly in cleared or disturbed sites and on cultivated ground, mostly in the eastern coastal region. A description of the species based on Australian material is presented and its distribution in Australia is mapped.
23890930|A new species of the genus Gymnanthera (Periplocaceae) is described from Central Australia.
23873803|Although Eremophila tietkensii has been considered synonymous with E. latrobei, recent investigations have shown that it was misinterpreted and is a distinct species. The reasons for this misinterpretation are given and a description and notes on the species provided.
43304738|Placynthium australiense P.M.McCarthy & Kantvilas (Peltigerales, Placynthiaceae) is described from hard mesic limestone in south-eastern South Australia. It is characterised by having discontinuous colonies of mainly squamulose thalli that lack a hypothallus and prothallus, as well as comparatively broad, 1-septate ascospores. Three other lichens, Candelariella amella (Hoffm.) Zahlbr., Endocarpon pallidum (Nyl.) Nyl. and Verrucaria calciseda DC., are reported for the first time from South Australia.
23872255|A new monotypic Australian genus, Dichromochlamys, is described in the tribe Astereae. The species D. dentatifolia (syn. Pterigeron dentatifolius F. Muell.), is described and illustrated and a distribution map is provided. The relationships of the genus are discussed.
23873878|Brachyloma ericoides (Schltdl.) Sond. is neotypified. B. ericoides subsp. bicolor, subsp. nov., is described and illustrated from Kangaroo Island, South Australia and compared with subsp. ericoides.
23874509|The genus Alisma L. (Alismataceae) is revised for South Australia, with several populations previously incorrectly identified as the introduced weed A. lanceolatum With. (narrow leaved water plantain) found instead to be the native A. plantago-aquatica L. (common water plantain). The distinguishing features for these taxa and related Alismataceae in South Australia are given and the implications for their conservation and/or weed status are discussed.
23873781|The names Montanoa bipinnatifida (Kunth) C. Koch, M. heracleifolia Brongn. and M. pyramidata Sch. Bip. ex C. Koch are typified or discussed in relation to plants grown in gardens. The three names relate to the same taxonomic species, with M. bipinnatifida having nomenclatural priority. The synonymy of M. bipinnatifida is given together with an illustration and comments on the allied cultivated species M. grandiflora (DC.) Sch. Bip. ex C. Koch and M. hibiscifolia (Benth.) Sch. Bip. ex C. Koch. The status of M. elegans C. Koch and M. wercklei A. Berger is also discussed.
23873842|Variation is documented in Lenbrassia australiana (C.T. White) G.W. Gillett, and a new variety described, var. glabrescens. Additional specimens of var. australiana are listed and described, together with line drawings of both taxa.
23872260|An examination of the food plants of butterfly larvae of Australia shows that these plants belong mainly to families of tropical origin. Australian or characteristically southern plant families provide food for the larvae of very few species of butterflies. The evidence suggests that the larval/plant relationships were already well established by the time Australia received its butterfly fauna from the north and that few species have been able to transfer freely to food plants in new families.
23890929|Some features of the South Australian naturalised flora were examined. The predominant source of naturalised alien species has changed from Europe or Eurasia in 1855 to the Mediterranean and environmentally similar areas at present. It is suggested that this is due to the history of northern European settlement of South Australia and the attendant importation of plants from that region. The majority of presently naturalised plants were recorded in Great Britain at the time of South Australian settlement and it is suggested that regardless of their ultimate origin, most plants would have arrived via Great Britain or, more generally, northern Europe. The majority of naturalised plants have been documented or are suspected to have been introduced intentionally. Most of them were ornamental, fodder or culinary plants. Of the unintentionally introduced species, most were fleece, seed or ballast contaminants. A number of characteristic distribution patterns of naturalised plants in South Australia are recognized. These result from climatic and edaphic features and from patterns of land use. Annuals are the predominant growth form of the well-established species. The majority of the unintentionally introduced species are annuals.
23873905|G. pauciflora ssp. leptophylla circumscribes populations of plants with very slender subterete leaves drying mid green; they are confined to central Eyre Peninsula, South Australia and are closest allied to G. pauciflora ssp. pauciflora. Such leaves are population constant, although on the periphery of the area of distribution of the subspecies there is evidence of wider variation in the form of plants with leaves tending towards the narrow linear flat leaves of ssp. pauciflora which form part of the variation on plants of ssp. pauciflora on surrounding parts of Eyre Peninsula. In ssp. pauciflora and the two Western Australian subspecies leaves differ from ssp. leptophylla in drying grey-green and the leaf margins usually free from each other for their whole length or rarely contiguous for a small portion of their length.
23874296|Lectotypes are selected for three species of Cryptandra, C. mutila Nees, C. myriantha Diels and C. polyclada Diels, from southern Australia. Cryptandra myriantha is the only member of the genus known to occur on both sides of the Nullarbor Plain. It was previously considered to be restricted to Western Australia, but is here reported to also occur in South Australia and Victoria.
23874205|Although the publication date of the first edition of part III of J.M. Black's 'Flora of South Australia' is not known, it is here established that it must have been published prior to 15 December 1926. Since this predates the publication of the names of five species described in volume 50 of the 'Transactions and Proceedings of the Royal Society of South Australia', which was published on the 23rd December 1926, the protologues of these names are here regarded as being published in part III of the 'Flora of South Australia'. Lectotypes for Logania insularis J. Black and L. recurva J. Black are here chosen.
23890932|Pultenaea quadricolor J. Black is shown to be a synonym of P. laxiflora Benth.
23875380|A taxonomic revision of the monotypic genus Huxleya is presented and its affinities and distribution are considered. A detailed description of the type species, H. linifolia, is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flower.
23872160|Ten new species of Eremophila are described from Central and Western Australia, namely E. alatisepala (S.W. Qld), E. arachnoides (SA, WA), E. bicolor (WA), E. biserrata (WA), E. gibbosa (WA),.E. glutinosa (WA), E. ovata (NT), E. purpurascens (WA), E. serpens (WA), and E. verrucosa (SA). Two subspecies are distinguished in both E. arachnoides and E. verrucosa. Each species is illustrated, and distribution maps, ecological, cytological and horticultural data are provided where available.
23873782|Daviesia arenaria, a new species from sandy soils of inland South Australia, New South Wales and Victoria, is described. It was previously confused with the widespread D. ulicifolia Andr. A diagnosis to separate the two species is given, along with an illustration, distribution map and notes on its ecology.
23873895|Within Kunzea sect. Zeanuk, 21 species in three subsections are described and accompanied by discussion on their affinities based on morphological and anatomical evidence. Numerous natural putative hybrids are briefly discussed under the taxon placed first in the hybrid formulae. The paper includes publication of (a) 16 new taxa: sect. Zeanuk, subsect. Arborescentes, subsect. Floridae, subsect. Globosae, K. acuminata, K. ciliata, K. cincinnata, K. clavata, K. glabrescens, K. newbeyi, K. rostrata, K. similis, K. spathulata, K. ericifolia (Sm.)Rchb. ex Heynh. subsp. subulata, K. micrantha Schauer subsp. hirtiflora and subsp. petiolata, and (b) one new combination: K. micrantha Schauer subsp. oligandra (Turcz.)Toelken.
23872048|Eichlerago, a new genus from Western Australia, is characterized. The single species, E. tysoniana, known from only two collections, is described and figured. Eichlerago possesses characteristics of both Lamiaceae and Verbenaceae (s. lat.), and an outline of the history of classification in both families is followed by a discussion of the relationships of the new genus, which is placed tentatively in Lamiaceae-Prostantheroideae.
23874471|Two new subspecies in Myoporum, M. boninense subsp. australe and M. platycarpum subsp. perbellum and two new subspecies in Eremophila, Eremophila bowmanii subsp. nutans and E. divaricata subsp. callewatta are described. The following new combinations are made: Eremophila debilis, Eremophila bowmanii subsp. latifolia, Eremophila oppositifolia subsp. rubra and Eremophila latrobei subsp. glabra.
23874589|Brachycome dimorphocarpa G.L. Davis is reduced to synonymy under B. ciliaris (Labill.) Less., and B. xanthocarpa sp. nov. is described. Two sibling species, one of which is referred to Calotis plumulifera F. Muell., are distinguished within C. multicaulis sens. lat. Olearia suffruticosa sp. nov. and O. pimeleoides (DC.) Benth. subsp. incana subsp. nov. are described, and the new combination O. passerinoides (Turcz.) Benth. subsp. glutescens (Sonder) D.A. Cooke is made. In the Inuleae, Podolepis davisiana sp. nov. is described and the new combination P. tepperi (F. Muell.) D.A. Cooke is made; the affinities of these species are discussed. Scyphocoronis incurva sp. nov. is described and compared to S. major.
23888256|The total number of species of mosses now definitely known to occur in the Northern Territory of Australia is 95. Of these 54 have not been reported previously, 7 are confirmed and 15 are new records for the Australian flora, including two new species (Fissidens darwinianus and F. gillianus); 7 previously reported were based on errors of identification; 6 others remain doubtful, no collections having been seen. Collections representative of distribution and presence in different herbaria are cited.
23873815|Calycopeplus ephedroides is removed from the South Australian census of plants after being recorded as occurring there by H.K. Airy Shaw in a 1980 publication on Australian Euphorbiaceae.
23873843|In 1960 a seedling of Cupressus lusitanica Mill. (Mexican Cypress) was noted with a distinct golden foliage colour. Following planting trials during which the constancy and distinctiveness of the form was assessed, it has been named C. lusitanica cv. Adelaide Gold.
23874278|The genus Prostanthera belongs to the family Labiatae, and is comprised of about 100 species endemic to Australia. With the exception of a few species that have previously been studied, the dormancy mechanism and germination requirements of the genus remain largely unknown. Seeds are characterised by the presence of a mericarp plug and have fully developed spatulate embryos. In this study, seeds from three species (Prostanthera eurybioides, P. behriana and P. calycina) covering both sections (Prostanthera and Klanderia) of the genus, were subjected to treatments including pulse dry heat (80C for 10 minutes), removal of the mericarp plug and combinations of both treatments. Using these approaches, germination rates of 100% were achieved for all species tested. Contrary to earlier reports for the genus, seeds that had been stored under controlled conditions for nearly eight years were shown to be viable and could also be germinated to high levels. Results confirmed that the genus has seeds that are physiologically dormant, and that the mericarp plug plays a significant role in the germination process. Mechanisms by which seed dormancy is alleviated under natural field conditions are proposed.
23874578|This paper describes the conceptual development, use and statistical validation of an objective method by which the performance of broadscale shrub and tree plantings for amenity purposes can be determined. The method provides an evaluation of the performance of specimens in relation to their potential on a species basis. It gives consistent results on the relative performance of species planted at a particular site and under particular horticultural treatments. The paper also highlights the need to statistically test the repeatability of subjective assessments used in other amenity plant surveys, particularly those used for monetary valuations.
23874212|Three new species of the family Aizoaceae are described and illustrated. Tetragonia cristata C.A. Gardner ex Prescott is from Western Australia, Trianthema megasperma Prescott, from the Northern Territory and Trianthema patellitecta Prescott, from the north-western part of Australia. The affinities of these taxa are discussed, distribution maps and ecological data are provided.
23874433|Pleurocarpaea Benth., an endemic genus of the Australian tropics is revised. One new species, P. fasciculata Dunlop, a second for the genus, is described and illustrated. Distribution maps are provided for both species.
23874057|The combination Senna phyllodinea (R. Br.)Symon is made to facilitate the use of the name for those who wish to distinguish it from Senna artemisioides ssp. petiolaris.
23874104|A total of 23 lichen and six moss taxa were collected from soil crusts at 15 sites on calcrete-dominant landscapes in the Maralinga area. Apart from two vagant lichens Chondropsis semiviridis (F. Muell. ex Nyl.)Nyl. and Xanthoparmelia convoluta (Krempehl.)Hale, soil lichens were dominated by crustose and squamulose types. Three families, Verrucariaceae, Peltulaceae and Lecideaceae accounted for 57% of the genera found at Maralinga. No liverworts, and only six moss species were collected. Sites with varying disturbance history were used to examine the recovery of crust cover and floristics over time. Across all quadrats, crust cover ( standard error of the mean) averaged 38.0  3.6%. Total crust cover and lichen species richness increased significantly as time since disturbance increased (P<0.001). Field results suggest that recovery of crust cover to levels necessary for protection against water erosion (30-40% cover) is achievable within 30-40 years.
23873784|A revision of the species of Trachymene in the Northern Territory is provided, with a key and descriptions. Five new species are described, T. hispida, T. inflata, T. lacerata, T. longipedunculata, T. psammophila, and one new combination T. rotundifolia is made for the Northern Territory. A new species from the Kimberleys, W. Australia, T. dendrothrix is described.
23872224|A putative natural hybrid between Prasophyllum archeri Hook.f. and P. despectans Hook.f. is reported from Glencoe, South-Eastern region, South Australia. The differences between the putative hybrid and its parents are tabulated and illustrated.
23872358|Pholidia sargentii S. Moore and Halgania lehmanniana Sond. are transferred to Eremophila and the necessary combinations effected. Eremophila woollsiana is reduced to synonomy under Eremophila lehmanniana (Sond.) Chinnock.
23874199|Pultenaea insularis J.Z. Weber is described from Kangaroo Island, South Australia supplemented by an illustration of a flowering branch and analytical drawings.
23874105|A new rare species of Pultenaea is described that has hitherto been included in P. largiflorens, and more recently, P. stricta. It is confined to a narrow range of habitats on the upper rocky slopes of Tothill Range and one small outlying hill. Despite a strong superficial resemblance to P. stricta, the new species is morphologically distinct and many characters distinguishing the two species are tabulated. Pultenaea kraehenbuehlii seems most closely related to Pultenaea stricta and P. gunnii ssp. tuberculata.
23873841|Four new Acacia species are described from the central Australian region of the Northern Territory, viz. A. ammobia Macon., A. ayersiana Macon., A. macdonnelliensis Macon., and A. olgana Macon. The new combination A. multisiliqua (Benth.) Macon., is provided for the tropical taxon, A. simsii var. multisiliqua Benth. One new record is noted, namely A. laccata Pedley.
23874025|The highly specialised species Othonna gypsicola is described as new and its relationship to the allied O. gregorii (F.Muell.)C. Jeffrey discussed. Illustrations are included.
23874287|Two new species, Hibbertia devitata Toelken and H. setifera Toelken, are segregated from the H. stricta (R.Br. ex DC.) F.Muell. complex. H. glebosa Toelken is newly described from the H. australis N.A.Wakef. complex and the new combination H. glebosa subsp. oblonga (J.M.Black) Toelken is made. All three species have strongly revolute leaf margins. The many local variants of H. devitata, which is a common and widespread species, mainly in South Australia, are described in detail, and some of the convoluted nomenclature of the H. stricta complex is discussed. A key is provided to the South Australian species and subspecies that would have been included in Bentham's concept of H. stricta.
23874280|The taxonomy of Ptilotus aristatus Benl and the related P. blackii Benl is revised and their relationship to one another clarified. Ptilotus aristatus is here treated as comprising two subspecies, P. aristatus subsp. aristatus and P. aristatus subsp. micranthus Albr. & Lally, nom. et stat. nov. Ptilotus aristatus var. eichlerianus (Benl) Benl is synonymised under P. aristatus subsp. aristatus, and P. aristatus var. exilis Benl and P. aristatus var. stenophyllus Benl are synonymised under P. aristatus subsp. micranthus Albr. & Lally. The original circumscription of P. blackii is shown to be a mixed concept (including P. aristatus subsp. aristatus), and this taxon is redescribed. Keys to P. blackii and P. aristatus, and to the subspecies of P. aristatus are provided. Distribution maps of all recognised taxa are presented.
23874507|As a precursor to the fifth edition of the Flora of South Australia, Gahnia halmaturina R.L.Barrett & K.L.Wilson is described as a new species from Kangaroo Island. This species was previously known by the phrase name Gahnia sp. West Bay (B.M.Overton 2685) R.L.Taplin. A revised key to South Australian species of Gahnia is provided.
23890927|Intensive library and archival searches yielded considerably more sources of information concerning the naturalisation of alien plants in South Australia than had been documented hitherto. The material is reviewed chronologically, and its value and the difficulties of its interpretation are discussed. The sources include herbarium specimens, botanical, agricultural and other literature, and records of Parliament and its Select Committees associated with the consideration of noxious weeds legislation.
23872235|Allopterigeron Dunlop, a new genus from Northern Australia, is described. The new combination, Allopterigeron filifolius (F. Muell.) Dunlop is made for its only species; a detailed decription is given with locality records and illustrations.
23874103|Bulbil watsonia, formerly known as Watsonia bulbillifera or as W. meriana cultivar 'Bulbillifera', is more appropriately treated as W. meriana var. bulbillifera, stat. nov.
23873807|An annotated list is provided of plants that appear to be gypsophilous. About 14 species may be considered obligate gypsophiles: Asteridia archeri, Austrostipa geoffreyi, Austrostipa nulla nulla, Calytrix gypsophila, Embadium johnstonii, Goodenia gypsicola, Kippistia suaedifolia, Lawrencia helmsii, Melaleuca nanophylla, Minuria gardneri, Minuria multiseta, Nicotiana burbidgeae, Nicotiana truncata, Senecio gypsicola. A further 233 species are facultative gypsophiles, being clearly tolerant of high concentrations of gypsum but much more widely spread. Fifty-six species of naturalised plants were recorded from gypsum deposits in South Australia in field surveys by the author; all species would be considered facultative gypsophiles.
23875386|Prasophyllum litorale R. Bates, a species previously included under P. frenchii F. Muell. is described as new and a key is provided to distinguish it from related species.
23873902|Manuscript notes made by Hj. Eichler indicated a new species of Zygophyllum, Z. flavum, in the Z. ammophilum complex and 3 new species, Z. tetrapterum, Z. cuneatum and Z. verticillatum in the Z. aurantiacum complex. All are formalised here, but Z. cuneatum and Z. verticillatum have been treated as subspecies i.e. Z. aurantiacum ssp. cuneatum and. Z. aurantiacum ssp.verticillatum. Keys to both complexes had been drafted by Eichler.
23872063|Characters used in Isoetes L. taxonomy are examined for the I. muelleri A. Br. complex. The characters examined in detail include general morphology (based on field studies as well as dried specimens), stomata, megaspore form, size and ornamentation, sporangial characteristics and cytology. Three classes of megaspore types are defined for species of Isoetes producing polymorphic megaspores. A polyploid series in I. muelleri was noted with somatic chromosome numbers of 22, 44, and 55 recorded. This species is considered to be apomictic. These studies indicate that I. muelleri is an exceptionally variable species occurring in a wide range of habitats throughout Australia. I. stuartii A. Br. is shown to be synonomous with I. muelleri.
23874442|Stomate guard cells and pollen grains of 50 herbarium specimens were measured, and the results analysed. There was no evidence of the presence of two size classes of these cell types, and thus no evidence suggesting the presence of two or more ploidy races. High levels of pollen sterility were observed, and the consequences of this sterility in sourcing and managing orchard stock are discussed.
23872047|Two species of Malva L., M. parviflora L. and M. nicaeensis All., both from southern Europe and Asia Minor, are naturalized today in South Australia. A key distinguishing them is provided. Schomburgk's early accounts of the species of Malva naturalized in South Australia are discussed. M. verticillata L. and M. pusilla Sm. are excluded from the present-day naturalized Australian flora, the published records of these species by Black and Eichler for South Australia being the result of misidentifications of collections of M. parviflora; characters separating these species are provided. The variation in the two species in South Australia is compared with published accounts of their variation in Eurasia and elsewhere. Four species of Lavatera L. occur in South Australia; L. plebeia Sims, a variable native species widespread throughout the state; L. arborea L., a naturalized southern European species common in the settled areas; L. cretica L., a rare species from southern Europe and Asia Minor whose status as a member of the naturalized flora of the state is established; and L. assurgentiflora Kell., a Californian species, whose existence in Australia in the Meningie-Coorong area is confirmed, but whose status as a truly naturalized species is in question. A descriptive key to the four species is provided.
23874213|Notonerium gossei (Apocynaceae) is shown to be a species of Heliotropium (Boraginaceae).
23872051|A naturally occurring putative hybrid between Caladenia dilatata R. Br. var. concinna H. M. Rupp and C. patersonii R. Br. var patersonii (Orchidaceae) is reported from Port Vincent, Yorke Peninsula, South Australia. The parents and putative hybrid are illustrated and their differences tabulated.
23874470|Peplidium foecundum W.R.Barker from arid central and south-eastern Australia and Glossostigma cleistanthum W.R.Barker from central and south-eastern Australia and New Zealand are formally named and described.
23874423|A taxonomic revision of Stachytarpheta in Australia is presented. The following six species, two of which are putative hybrids are recognised: S. australis, S. cayennensis, S. jamaicensis, S. mutabilis, S. xadulterina and S. xtrimenii. The putative hybrid S. xtrimenii is recorded from Australia for the first time. The following two species are typified: S. cayennensis and S. mutabilis. A range of material including specimens from South America and Malesia was examined. Affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and each species. A key to the species and hybrid taxa is provided and a detailed description of each species is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flowers.
23872169|Twenty-one species of Melaleuca (Myrtaceae) are recognised in South Australia. Separate keys based on floral and vegetative characters are provided and each species is described and synonymy, distribution maps and line illustrations provided. The following changes to the South Australian species, as treated by Black and Eichler in the "Flora of South Australia" are incorporated. Two endemic species, M. nanophylla sp. nov. (North-western region) and M. oxyphylla sp. nov. (Eyre Peninsula region), are described. M. linophylla F. Muell. is treated as endemic to Western Australia and material previously referred to that species placed under M. dissitiflora F. Muell. Willis, "Handbook to plants in Victoria", vol. 2, 1972, is followed in treating M. oraria J.M. Black as a synonym of M. neglecta Ewart & Wood.
23874303|A list and commentary is provided of garden plants that have survived at the 'Water Gully' nursery site of C.F. Newman & Son, in the Anstey Hill Recreation Park, 20 km north-east of Adelaide. Thirty-five species are considered to be naturalised at the site, include Buddleja dysophylla (Benth.) Radk., Myrtus communis L., Noltea africana (L.) Endl., Prunus mahaleb L. and Wigandia urens var. caracasana (Kunth) D.N.Gibson. Consideration is given as to whether some of the horticulturally rare single old plants that have not naturalised should be regarded as heritage plants in the context of the listing of the site on the State Heritage Register, due to the historical significance of the former nursery and gardens.
23873795|A taxonomic revision of Bergia in Australia is presented. The following ten species are recognised: B. pedicellaris, B. henshallii, B. perennis, B. barklyana, B. auriculata, B. ammannioides, B. trimera, B. occultipetala, B. diacheiron and B. pusilla. B. barklyana, B. auriculata, B. henshallii, B. occultipetala and B. diacheiron are described as new. B. perennis comprises three subspecies. The existing infrageneric classification is considered inadequate and four informal groups based on Australian taxa are suggested. B. ammannioides and B. trimera have an extra-Australian distribution; all other taxa are endemic. A key to the species and distribution maps are provided.
23872355|A taxonomic revision of the genus Crassula in Australia is presented together with a key to the 17 taxa recognized. C. colorata var. tuberculata Toelken and C. sieberana subsp. tetramera Toelken are described while the combination C. colorata var. miriamiae (Ostenf.) Toelken is made.
23872261|A new species Eucalyptus flindersii, the grey mallee or mallee red gum, previously referred to E. morrisii R.T.Bak. in error, and two new subspecies, E. viminalis subsp. cygnetensis for the rough-barked manna gum incorrectly referred to E. huberana Naud., and E. yumbarrana subsp. striata from south of Lake Wyola in the Far West Zone of South Australia, are described.
23874289|In recent years there has been much confusion as to the correct name application for the Australian species of Salsola L. Prior to the late 1990's S. kali L. was universally applied throughout Australia but Rilke (1999) adopted the name S. tragus L. and more recently some authors have taken up the name S. australis R.Br. Molecular studies by Hrusa & Gaskin (2008), Borger et al. (2008) and Ayers et.al. (2008) confirm that Salsola australis is distinct from both S. tragus and S. kali so this name has been adopted for the forthcoming 5th edition of the Flora of South Australia. Observation of Salsola populations in Western Australia and South Australia suggest that Salsola australis is a complex of at least six forms which require an Australian-wide molecular/ systematic study to determine their status.
23890931|Five species of Indigofera, chiefly from central and northern Australia, are typified and provided with full descriptions and a few notes. Of these, two, I. bancroftii (Queensland) and I. verruculosa (Northern Territory), are described as new. The new name I. helmsii (I. uncinata Ewart & Kerr, non G. Don, nec Roxb.) is published, the circumscription and application of I. adesmiifolia A. Gray is clarified and the new combination, I. basedowii ssp. longibractea (I. longibractea J.M. Black), is made.
23873837|A taxonomic revision of the monotypic genus Hemiphora is provided. The affinities and distribution are considered and a detailed revised description is provided for the genus and the species. A habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flowers are also included.
23873788|The first possible records of Acacia peuce are investigated. It is concluded that while Burke and Wills (1861) saw this species at its northernmost locality, the type collection was collected by Howitt and Murray (1862) at a more southerly site near the present town of Birdsville.
23872046|A taxonomic revision of the genus Chloanthes R. Br. is provided. Four species are recognized all typified for the first time. C. stoechadis R. Br. var. parviflora Benth. is found to be synonymous with the typical variety. The affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and each species. A new key to the species is provided and a detailed revised description of each taxon is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flowers.
23873979|A revision of 28 native and naturalised genera of Acanthaceae is presented together with keys to infrafamilial, generic, specific and infra-specific taxa. There is a brief history of each genus and the morphology and floral biology of the genera have been discussed in comparative terms. Past infra-familial classifications have been reviewed and the placement of Australian genera within these is considered. Malesian material and literature have been consulted in order to establish correct names as far as possible; where Australian taxa extend into New Guinea, the New Guinea material has been included in the treatment. Lepidagathis Willd., Hemigraphis Nees and?Peristrophe Nees are newly recorded along with the two generic segregates of Justicia s.l., Calophanoides (Clarke) Ridley and Rhaphidospora Nees. A discussion of the generic delimitation within the complexes of genera sometimes placed under Ruellia and Justicia is presented. Species reinstated are Dipteracanthus australasicus F. Muell. (for Ruellia primulacea F. Muell. ex Benth., Ruellia corynotheca F. Muell. ex Benth. and Dipteracanthus corynothecus (F. Muell. ex Benth.) Bremek. ex W.R. Barker), Dicliptera armata F. Muell. (for D. glabra Decne.) and Dicliptera ciliata Decne. (for D. aff. leonotis Dalz. ex C.B. Clarke). The following new combinations have been made: Dicliptera australis (Brochosiphon australis Nees), Isoglossa eranthemoides (Justicia eranthemoides F. Muell.), Calophanoides hygrophiloides (Justicia hygrophiloides F. Muell.), Rhaphidospora cavernarum (Justicia cavernarum F. Muell.), Rhaphidospora bonneyana (Justicia bonneyana F. Muell.) and Rostellularia adscendens (Justicia adscendens R. Br.). This last name has been reintroduced for Australian material previously referred to Justicia procumbens L., J. clementii Domin, J. glaucoviolacea Domin and Rostellularia pogonanthera F. Muell. Within it, var. latifolia and var. hispida of ssp. adscendens are based on varieties described by Domin under Justicia procumbens L. The following new combinations are associated with changes in status: Dipteracanthus australasicus F. Muell. ssp. corynothecus (Ruellia corynotheca F. Muell. ex Benth.), Rostellularia adscendens (R. Br.) R.M. Barker ssp. glaucoviolacea (Justicia glaucoviolacea Domin), ssp. clementii and var. clementii (Justicia clementii Domin) and under ssp. adscendens, var. juncea (Justicia juncea R. Br.), and var. pogonanthera (Rostellularia pogonanthera F. Muell.). The following new taxa have been described: Acanthus ebracteatus Vahl ssp. ebarbatus, Staurogyne leptocaulis Bremek. ssp. decumbens, Dipteracanthus australasicus F. Muell. ssp. glabrata and ssp. dalyensis, Brunoniella linearifolia and B. acaulis (R. Br.) Bremek. ssp. ciliata, Xerothamnella herbacea, Dicladanthera glabra, Dicliptera arnhemica and D. miscella,?Peristrophe brassii, Hypoestes sparsiflora and H. floribunda var. varia, var. yorkensis, var. velutina, var. cinerea and var. neoguineensis, Sarojusticia kempeana (F. Muell.) Bremek. ex H. Eichler ssp. muelleri, Rostellularia adscendens (R. Br.) R.M. Barker ssp. dallachyi and var. largiflorens of ssp. clementii (Domin) R.M. Barker. All names have been typified and areas where problems are still to be resolved are highlighted.
23873785|A new species of Samolus, S. eremaeus, is described from Central Australia. A key to the Australian species is provided.
23874138|Dalhousie Springs are the largest and most impressive of the artesian mound springs which are scattered along the western and southern margins of the Great Artesian Basin. A checklist of angiosperm plants is provided.
23874468|Centrolepis in Australia is revised and twenty species are recognised. This revision is based on morphological features that are discussed in relation to the biology of the genus. One new species, C. curta, and a new subspecies, C. strigosa subsp. rupestris, are described and illustrated. The new combinations C. monogyna subsp. paludicola and C. strigosa subsp. pulvinata are made.
23874127|A new species of Acacia, A. simmonsiana, is described and illustrated. It has a discontinuous distribution in south-eastern Australia where it extends from Kangaroo Island in South Australia to far northwest Victoria and south-central New South Wales. Until now A. simmonsiana had been treated as a variant of A. halliana, to which it is most closely related.
23874283|Drosera hookeri R.P.Gibson, B.J.Conn & Conran (Droseraceae) is proposed as a replacement name for Drosera foliosa Hook.f. ex Planch., nom. illeg., non Elliot (1821).
23888259|A. undoolyana G. Leach is described as a new species. It is closely related to A. macdonnelliensis Maconochie and also shows some affinities to A. ammobia Maconochie. The species is restricted to the East Macdonnell Ranges of Central Australia. It is considered vulnerable with frequent wildfires identified as the major threat.
23874422|A review is given of morphology, reproduction, ecology and distribution in taxa of mulga. After an acknowledgement of the need for further study, a new classification of Acacia Mill. sect. Juliflorae (Benth.)Maiden & Betche is proposed. Acacia minyura and A. paraneura are described, as well as the two varieties, A. aneura F. Muell. ex Benth. var. macrocarpa, and A. aneura var. conifera. A new combination of A. ayersiana Maconochie var. latifolia (J.Black)Randell is made.
23874300|A new arid zone species from Arckaringa Station is formally described as Olearia arckaringensis. It falls in Olearia sect. Eriotriche Archer ex Benth. and is a distinctive species without any obvious close relatives. Currently it is known only from a single site on a gypseous breakway escarpment and is considered to be critically endangered.
23873903|A history of the occurrence of Stipa papposa in South Australia is given. The species is described together with notes on distinguishing features.
23874056|Many named cultivars of Watsonia were grown in Australia before 1940, but are now lost due to their neglect in horticulture and the absence of formal descriptions. The Watsonia cultivars 'Jessie', 'Leng' and 'SuiLan' are described and the Cronin hybrids discussed.
23872348|A taxonomic revision of the genus Pityrodia is provided. Dennisonia F. Muell. is reduced to synonymy. A key to the genera of the Chloanthaceae is provided. Forty-one species are recognized of which the following 16 new species and one variety are described: P. angustisepala, P. augustensis, P. byrnesii, P. chorisepala, P. gilruthiana, P. glabra, P. glutinosa, P. lanceolata, P. lanuginosa, P. megalophylla, P. ovata, P. puberula, P. pungens, P. quadrangulata, P. serrata, P. spenceri and P. exserta var. lanata. The new combination of P. ternifolia (Syn. Dennisonia ternifolia F. Muell.) is made and P. uncinata var. exserta Benth. is raised to the status of a species. The affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and each species. A key to the taxa is provided and a detailed description of each species is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flowers.
23872258|Five new species of Eremophila, namely E. falcata, E. linearis, E.punctata, E. spinescens and E. undulata are described from central Western Australia. Each species is illustrated and distribution maps are provided.
23873805|First collections of botanical material from South Australia were by the scientists on board the British and French vessels involved in mapping the South Australian coastline in 1802. A background to the collecting of plants and seeds and the illustrating of these plants is given, collecting localities are identified and the scientific outcomes of both voyages are discussed. A comprehensive list of plants collected in South Australia by the British and based on still extant herbarium collections is presented for the first time. A list of plants collected by the French is less comprehensive but their time collecting in South Australia was much more limited and predominantly confined to Kangaroo Island.
23874288|As a precursor to the revised Flora of South Australia, one new species of Indigofera, I. cornuligera Peter G.Wilson & Rowe (with two subspecies: subsp. cornuligera and subsp. flindersensis Peter G.Wilson & Rowe), and one new subspecies of I. australis Willd. (subsp. hesperia Peter G. Wilson & Rowe), are described. Neotypes are designated for three accepted species and lectotypes for seven synonyms.
23874510|The two morphotypes of the Australian endemic Malva preissiana Miq. (Austral Hollyhock) are here regarded as separate, distinct species with the white-flowered M. preissiana a coprophilic halophyte on seabird-dominated near-shore islands, or rarely mainland shores or inland salt lakes used by seabirds. Malva weinmanniana (Besser ex Rchb.) Conran, based on Lavatera weinmanniana Besser ex Rchb., is the new name applied to the more common, pink-flowered, largely mainland taxon. The names L. weinmanniana, L. plebeia var. eremaea J.M.Black., L. plebeia var. tomentosa Hook.f., and M. behriana Schltdl. are lectotypified and their statuses discussed. A key to the taxa and a table of comparisons is supplied.
23874588|Taking into account the recent publication of the new species H. repullulans H.M. Lee from western Victoria and South Australia, it is shown that the name H. ulicina, widely used in the past, does not apply to- South Australian Hakea. The name H. carinata F. Muell. ex Meissner is re-instated for a species endemic to the Flinders and Mt Lofty Ranges and the South Eastern region. H. muelleriana J. Black is confirmed as a distinct species, occurring in drier regions from Eyre Peninsula to the South Eastern region and extending to Kangaroo Island and Victoria. The occurrence of exceptionally broad-leaved forms of this species on Kangaroo Island warrants further biological and taxonomic investigation. H. aenigma W.R. Barker & Haegi, a Kangaroo Island endemic apparently most closely related to H. repullulans, is described. This new species is unusual in its sterility, apparent genetic uniformity and complete dependence on suckering as a means of reproduction.
23875388|Brachyscome coongiensis Munir is a synonym of B. rara G.L. Davis. Notes on the type collections and recent collections are provided.
23872259|Two new species, Daviesia eremaea and D. purpurascens, are described; the names D. benthamii Meisn. and Leptosema chambersii F. Muell. are reinstated, and Leptosema anomalum (Ewart et Morrison) comb. nov. is transferred from Jacksonia.
23874216|Acacia jasperensis J.R. Maconochie, a new species restricted to Jasper Gorge, Northern Territory, is described. Its distinguishing features from A. alleniana and A. praelongata are discussed.
23890925|Eight species and two hybrid combinations within the fern genus Hypolepis Bernh. are recognised in Australia (including Norfolk Island and Lord Howe Island). The name H. punctata (Thunb.) Mett. ex Kuhn is shown to have been misapplied, and material previously referred to this species is described as H. glandulifera, sp. nov. Two species, H. muelleri and H. rugosula, are regarded as endemic. Three species, H. dicksonioides, H. distans and H. amaurorachis, are shared with New Zealand; H. amaurorachis is shown to be an earlier name for both H. australis and the recently described H. subantarctica. Two species, H. elegans and H. glandulifera, extend into the Pacific but not to New Zealand, and one, H. tenuifolia, has a wide distribution in the Indo-Malesian region. Chromosome numbers are newly reported for four species, including n = 49 in H. muelleri, a number not previously recorded in the genus.
23874295|The macrofungal flora of the Stringybark Walking Trail, an 18 ha site in Deep Creek Conservation Park, South Australia, was surveyed over a ten year period. The diversity of fungal species recorded at this small site exceeds that at other locations in South Australia surveyed over this period, suggesting that this remnant of stringybark forest is of particular significance for the conservation of the fungal biota of South Australia. The species recorded are listed, together with their habit, phenology and distribution within South Australia. Data from all South Australian collections made by the authors in the same period and from collections by others deposited in the State Herbarium of South Australia (AD) were used to estimate the conservation status for all named species recorded from the Stringybark Walking Trail. Worldwide, the importance of fungi and the need for their conservation has been recognised only recently. In South Australia, fungi are not currently included in Threatened Species Schedules. Information from this study provides data relevant to selecting fungal taxa to include in these Schedules.
23874064|A taxonomic revision of Faradaya in Australia is presented. The following two species are recognised: F. albertisii and F. splendida. F. albertisii is confirmed from Australia. A wide range of material has been examined from Malesia and Oceania. The affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and each species. A key to the species is provided and a detailed description of each species is supplemented by an illustration.
23873813|The name Malva australiana M.F.Ray, which replaced Lavatera plebeia Sims when Lavatera was merged with Malva, is predated by M. preissiana Miq. The relationship of this earlier name to variation within the species is discussed. The type specimen now falls within the less common white-flowered offshore island morphotype, sometimes recognised previously as Lavatera plebeia var. tomentosa Hook.f.
23873894|The taxonomy of the two species of Lantana in Australia  L. camara and L. montevidensis is reviewed. Affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and for each species. A key to the species is provided and a detailed description of each species is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flowers and map of distribution.
23874207|The endemic Australian genus Aphelia is revised. Six species  A. brizula, A. cyperoides, A. drummondii, A. gracilis, A. nutans and A. pumilio  are distinguished on morphological features. The removal of any of these species to the segregate genus Brizula is not supported.
23873897|Microtis eremaea, M. graniticola and M. media R.Br. ssp. eremicola are described as new; illustrations are provided together with a distribution map. Discussion of variation within each species and suspected hybrids is included.
23874023|A taxonomic revision of the genus Lippia in Australia is presented. Only one species is recorded from Australia, identified for the first time as L. alba. Affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and the species. A detailed description of the species is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flower as well as leaf variation.
23875390|Two new South Australian species of Eucalyptus, series Rufispermae Maiden, are described. E. percostata Brooker & P. Lang is a mallee known from a few localities in the Southern Flinders Ranges. It has affinities with E. dumosa and E. pileata but differs from the former mainly by the strongly ribbed operculum wider than the hypanthium, and from the latter by dull and often glaucous leaves. E. cretata P. Lang & Brooker is a mallee or small tree from central Eyre Peninsula strongly resembling E. cyanophylla in gross morphology, but readily distinguished by its prominently glaucous branchlets, grey-green subglaucous leaves, and summer flowering time. A key to South Australian species of series Rufispermae is provided.
23874444|In Randell (1989) Cassia oligophylla F. Muell. var. sericea Symon was synonymised with Senna artemisioides (DC.)Randell subsp. oligophylla (F. Muell.)Randell. However, field experience in the Northern Territory and Western Australia indicates that the taxon is consistently recognisable. To assist those who wish to distinguish this taxon it is here reinstated under the new combination Senna sericea (Symon)Albr. & Symon.
23888257|Information is presented supporting the division of Cassia L. into three genera, and as a result sect. Chamaefistula is treated within Senna Miller. Nine species are shown to have been introduced to Australia. The endemic taxa have been revised and are now recognised as three species, one of which has been raised from varietal rank. New combinations are provided for Senna barclayana (Sweet) Randell, Senna clavigera (Domin) Randell and Senna planitiicola (Domin) Randell.
23873901|Solanum sarrachoides Sendtn. is newly recorded as an alien for Australia. A description, and notes on its distribution, ecology and distinction from related species are provided.
23872161|Biographical notes are given on Roberto Burle Marx, the Brazilian landscape architect and artist. Some of his better known projects are enumerated and his use of Brazilian and other tropical plants in dramatic landscape design is discussed. It is demonstrated that plantsmanship and creativity based on abstract art forms combine with architecture and social need in the works of Burle Marx.
23874128|A new species, Acacia spooneri, is described and illustrated. It occurs in three isolated populations in the central and southern Flinders Ranges, South Australia. Until now A. spooneri has been treated as a variant of A. wattsiana, to which it is closely related, together with A. quornensis.
23874293|Marsilea cryptocarpa Albr. & Chinnock is a new fern from three widely disjunct populations growing in cracking clay depressions in arid central Australia. Superficially it is similar to M. drummondii A.Braun and is probably mistaken for vegetative plants of this species. Marsilea cryptocarpa is readily distinguished from M. drummondii by the dense cluster of very small short-stalked sporocarps that are completely enveloped in cottony hairs. Its conservation status is considered 'data deficient'.
23874285|Taxonomic and nomenclatural changes to three Ptilotus taxa are presented in advance of the revised edition of the Flora of South Australia. Ptilotus gaudichaudii (Steud.) J.M.Black is now considered to comprise three subspecies: P. gaudichaudii subsp. gaudichaudii, P. gaudichaudii subsp. eremita (S.Moore) Lally, comb. et stat. nov. and P. gaudichaudii subsp. parviflorus (Benth.) Lally, comb. et stat. nov. A further subspecies is recognised in P. nobilis (Lindl.) F.Muell.: P. nobilis subsp. angustifolius (Benl) Lally & W.R.Barker, comb. et stat. nov. and its geographical range is clarified. Ptilotus nobilis var. pallidus Benl is reduced to a synonym of P. nobilis subsp. nobilis. Ptilotus spathulatus f. angustatus Benl is also reduced to synonymy under P. spathulatus (R.Br.) Poir. Keys to infraspecific taxa in P. gaudichaudii and P. nobilis are presented.
23890928|The development of the naturalised flora of South Australia has been quantified by examining the number and the familial and generic composition of species in four years of significance in local botanical history and the present, viz. 1855, 1909, 1929, 1965 and 1984. The numbers of naturalised species were 101, 397, 539, 803 and 977 respectively. The last figure includes seven doubtfully recorded species and a further 64 believed to be extinct, not having been collected since 1950. The overall rate of acquisition of naturalised species has been just over six per year. The consistently best-represented families have been Gramineae, Compositae, Leguminosae and Cruciferae, whilst the best represented genera have been Trifolium and Medicago. Similar rankings were found in Victoria and New South Wales. The reasons for this are discussed.
23874130|A taxonomic revision of Verbena in Australia is presented. The following seven species are recognized: V. aristigera, V. bonariensis, V. hispida, V. litoralis, V. officinalis, V. rigida and V. supina. Besides the typical varieties, the following are confirmed: V. litoralis var. brasiliensis, V. officinalis var. africana, V. officinalis var. gaudichaudii, V. officinalis var. macrostachya and V. supina var. erecta. In addition V. officinalis var. eremicola (from South Australia) and V. officinalis var. monticola (from Victoria) are described as new and V. bonariensis var. conglomerata and V. officinalis var. halei are recorded from Australia for the first time. V. officinalis var. africana was reduced from the level of a subspecies, and V. supina f. erecta is upgraded to var. erecta. The following are reduced to synonymy: V. africana synonym of V. officinalis var. africana, V. gaudichaudii synonym of V. officinalis var. gaudichaudii, V. incompta synonym of V. bonarisiensis var. bonariensis, V. supina f. petiolulata synonym of V. supina var. supina, V. litoralis var. portoricensis synonym of V. litoralis var. litoralis, V. isabellei and V. chacensis synonym of V. litoralis var. brasilensis. Three species names typified here are V. hispida, V. rigida and V. scaberrima. Affinities and distribution are considered for the genus and each species. A key to the species and infraspecific taxa is provided, and a detailed description of each species is supplemented by a habit sketch of a flowering branch and analytical drawings of the flower.
23874137|In two northern Australian species of Solanum the usual berry fruit has been modified to form a censer with wind ballist seed dispersal. The fruit structure and dispersal mechanism are described and compared with similar fruits in other groups.
23874282|Breeding experiments suggest that the occurrence of white (acyanic) flowers in several cultivars derived from Watsonia borbonica (Pourr.) Goldblatt is determined by a single recessive allele. Many Watsonia cultivars have been characterised simply as 'white-flowered'; but descriptions based on several characters are necessary if cultivars with unique genotypes are to be differentiated without ambiguity.
23874297|The status, nomenclature and typification of seven names from the genera Alphitonia Reissek ex Endl., Emmenosperma F.Muell., Gouania Jacq. and Ventilago Gaertn. are reviewed for northern Australia. The monotypic genus Dallachya is accepted for Australia and not subsumed in Rhamnella Miq. Lectotypes are designated for Dallachya vitiensis (Benth.) F.Muell., Emmenosperma alphitonioides F.Muell., Gouania australiana F.Muell., Ventilago ecorollata (F.Muell.) F.Muell. and Ventilago viminalis Hook.
23874511|A review of the species of Stellaria L. occurring in Australia is provided. The genus is represented by 10 species, of which S. papillata C.H.Mill. & J.G.West is described as new, as are 3 subspecies: S. angustifolia subsp. rotundisepala C.H.Mill. & J.G.West, S. multiflora subsp. collaris C.H.Mill. & J.G.West and S. multiflora subsp. nebulosa C.H.Mill. & J.G.West. Two new combinations are made, namely S. angustifolia subsp. tenella (Benth.) C.H.Mill. & J.G.West, based on S. glauca Hook. var. (?) tenella Benth. and S. leptoclada (Benth.) C.H.Mill. & J.G.West, based on Stellaria glauca var. (?) leptoclada Benth. Lectotypes are selected for S. angustifolia Hook., S. caespitosa Hook.f., S. glauca Hook. var. (?) tenella Benth, S. filiformis (Benth.) Mattf., S. flaccida Hook., S. multiflora Hook., S. pungens Brongn. and S. squarrosa Hook. Notes, maps, illustrations and an identification key are provided for all taxa occurring in Australia.
23874239|A revision of the genus Solanum in Australia is presented. Ninety-four native species are recognised, including the following new species: S. ashbyae Symon, S. beaugleholei Symon, S. chippendalei Symon, S. clarkiae Symon, S. cookii Symon, S. eardleyae Symon, S. hesperium Symon, S. heteropodium Symon, S. linearifolium Gerasimenko ex Symon, S. petraeum Symon, S. seitheae Symon, S. terraneum Symon, S. tudununggae Symon and S. yirrkalensis Symon. The new combination, S. plicatile (S. Moore) Symon, is made. Thirty-one alien species are established or are important in Australia. The main part of the work is devoted to a description of each species, with synonyms being listed. Maps of distribution and illustrations of almost all species, comprising a leafy branch, anthers, gynoecium and a fruit cluster are provided.
