10.2307/30161755|The regional anatomy of the avian coxofemoral joint is reviewed and compared to that of mammals. Differences include angle of the femoral head and neck to the femoral shaft, type of joint and range of motion, and thigh musculature. A case report of a new technique for open-reduction of a coxofemoral luxation is presented, including a discussion of coxofemoral luxations, repair techniques and their consequences.
10.2307/27671041|The clinical presentation, distribution of lesions and epidemiologic effects of the avian polyomavirus are dramatically different among susceptible species. Clinical infections are most common in young psittacine birds and finches although adults of varying species can also be affected. In larger psittacine birds, polyomavirus infections may cause peracute death with no premonitory signs, or acute death after development of multisystemic clinical changes. Infected birds that recover are thought to become asymptomatic virus carriers. This paper presents current information on the clinical features, pathology, pathogenesis, immunity, diagnosis, epidemiology, and control of polyomavirus in birds.
10.2307/27670892|Fifty juvenile macaws ranging in age from six weeks to seven months were examined endoscopically. The examinations were recorded electronically for later review. Based on these data, a systematic technique for the differentiation of the male and female gonads in juvenile macaws is proposed. The developmental changes in ovarian morphology observed in this group are also discussed with relationship to chronology.
10.2307/30135008|A diagnosis of polyomavirus was made in three Black-bellied Seed Crackers based on histopathology and electron microscopy. The inability to detect polyomavirus in these finches using molecular techniques that are effective in psittacine birds suggests that a virus with a varied genome exists in finches.
10.2307/30136925|Important gross observations at necropsy may provide insights into clinical signs and disease progression. The ability of an avian practitioner to recognize anatomical variations and disease-induced lesions improves with experience and study. A photo essay is presented to demonstrate selected lesions observed at necropsy and possible interpretation(s) of these findings.
10.2307/27671073|As an aid in diagnosing reproductive problems in psittacine birds, color photographs and text describe typical fertile and infertile eggs, early developmental failures and four selected stages of normal embryonic Cockatiel development.
10.2307/27671085|Avian polyomavirus infections continue to cause high levels of mortality in companion and aviary birds, resulting in psychological distress for clients and financial burdens for aviculturists and retail distributors. The immunogenic properties of an inactivated, oil-adjuvanted, avian polyomavirus vaccine were evaluated in a group of Blue and Gold Macaw chicks. The vaccine induced virus neutralizing antibodies in all of the vaccinates. The immunoprophylactic efficacy of this vaccine was suggested by detecting a measurable antibody response in the vaccinated chicks, and by demonstrating that the vaccinates were protected from subsequent challenge with live virus. Unvaccinated chicks challenged with live virus developed a greater than six-fold increase in virus neutralizing antibody titers that were considered indicative of an active infection. The oil-adjuvanted vaccine used in this study caused granuloma formation at sites of subcutaneous injection in all vaccinates. The results of this study suggest that an inactivated vaccine will provide a method of preventing avian polyomavirus infection, once a safe and effective adjuvant has been identified.
10.2307/30136891|The ability of birds to effectively ventilate through a cannulated air sac during tracheal obstruction was determined in eight male Pekin ducks. The birds were induced with phenobarbital and intubated. A cannula was placed in the clavicular air sac and then occluded. Baseline clinical measurements were made, and the endotracheal tube was then occluded and the air sac cannula opened to room air. Clinical values taken at intervals over the next sixty-minute period indicated that cannulation of an air sac is a reasonable therapeutic alternative for managing birds with tracheal obstructions.
10.2307/30133279|With the aid of multiple clinical procedures, a four-year-old Pekin duck was diagnosed with malignant lymphoma and leukemia accompanied by pneumonia and cardiac failure. The bird initially responded to chemotherapy but was euthanized one month after presentation due to respiratory distress and spontaneous hemorrhages. This case report includes a discussion of lymphoma in birds.
10.2307/30134303|In this report we describe intralesional herpes-like virus (HLV) associated with a cloacal papilloma (CP) in an Orange-fronted Conure. The relationship between herpesvirus and CP in the present report may be only incidental. However, epornithologic features of CP suggest an infectious etiology, and avian herpesvirus can be oncogenic. There is a continuing need for virus isolation and identification expertise among diagnosticians who work with Psittaciforme patients. When clinicians and pathologists recognize cases of tumorous disease (including CPs), they should consider virus isolation as the first step toward the detection of agents associated with these disorders.
10.2307/30135007|This report describes a case of fatal bronchopneumonia associated with intralesional cryptosporidiosis in a Wood Duck (Aix sponsa). No other organisms were seen or were cultured, and no other cause of death could be established. Although fatal respiratory disease has been reported in Cryptosporidium-infected Coturnix quail, and Cryptosporidium baileyi can cause fatal respiratory illnesses in chickens and turkeys, the relationship between parasitism and fatal bronchopneumonia in this duck is not known.
10.2307/27671088|Proventriculitis caused by megabacteria and Candida sp. was diagnosed in a Lesser Sulphur-crested Cockatoo. The only presenting clinical sign was anorexia. Gram's stains of the feces and choana were negative for these organisms. Diagnosis was made with cytology samples taken during endoscopy. Successful treatment was accomplished with ketoconazole and a Lactobacillus sp. supplement.
10.2307/30161766|A four-year-old Greater Indian Hill Mynah was presented with severe dyspnea, coughing and ascites. Abdominocentesis and oxygen supplementation provided immediate relief of the dyspnea. Prominent radiographic findings were cardiomegaly and hepatomegaly, and clinical abnormalities included elevated packed cell volume, hypoproteinemia and elevation of aspartate aminotransferase. These findings were suggestive of a hepatopathy with avian hemochromatosis as the primary rule-out. A course of weekly phlebotomies was instituted and the mynah was maintained on a low-iron diet. The ascites and dyspnea regressed with treatment, and the bird remained free of symptoms for 12 weeks before it died abruptly. Hemochromatosis was confirmed at necropsy. A review of hemochromatosis as well as a suggested protocol for the management of acute, decompensated hemochromatosis in mynahs is presented.
10.2307/27671000|Hematologic and serum biochemistry values were determined in 152 samples from 87 juvenile cockatoos of nine species. Birds were sampled at 30, 60, 90 or 180 days of age. Forty-seven analytes were examined for variations related to age. Most hematological and serum biochemical parameters examined varied significantly with age. Values for Umbrella Cockatoos were compared to the same analyte, age group for all cockatoos. Significant differences were found in 49 of the 196 comparisons made, with variations in at least one age group in 29 of the 47 analytes.
10.2307/30136922|A four-year-old female Cockatiel died after a two-month history of polyuria, lethargy, colorpattern changes and eventual blindness. Necropsy revealed a mass near the pituitary gland, which was identified by histopathology as a pituitary adenoma.
10.2307/30135010|A case of malignant melanoma in an African Grey Parrot is reported, apparently originating in the nasal sinuses and metastasizing to several organs. This tumor appears to be very uncommon in companion and aviary birds; no case has been reported in the last five years.
10.2307/27671119|Lymphosarcoma was diagnosed in a juvenile blue and gold macaw (Ara ararauna) and a mature canary (Serinus canarius). The macaw was examined because of anorexia and inactivity of one week's duration. Physical examination revealed depression, ataxia, blindness, weight loss, and neurologic dysfunction. The bird was euthanatized when it began having seizures. Histopathologic examination of tissue samples taken at necropsy revealed diffuse infiltration of the liver, spleen, and kidneys with pleomorphic lymphocytes. The canary was examined because of inactivity of a few days' duration. On physical examination, the bird was weak, dyspneic, emaciated and had a greatly swollen abdomen. Necropsy revealed a large liver, and histopathologic examination showed discrete, focal, lymphoid cell infiltration of the liver and atypical mycobacteriosis involving the lungs.
27671090|Three Great-billed Parrots (Tanygnathus megalorynchos) out of a flock of ten died acutely with only lethargy and hematochezia noted prior to death. Clostridium perfringens was recovered from one of the birds, and organisms suggestive of C. perfringens were identified by a Gram's stain of the feces of a second bird. Clinical signs, diagnostic tests, necropsy findings and histopathologic changes associated with C. perfringens in psittacine birds, poultry and Tanygnathus sp. are discussed.
10.2307/30135050|Ophthalmic problems are commonly noted in companion birds, resulting from infections, tumors and trauma. This report describes a surgical technique that allows for removal of supraorbital abscesses or masses with minimal blood loss. In this case, a chronic subconjunctival Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection caused the supraorbital abscesses that required surgical correction. No recurrence of the infection or supraorbital abscesses was noted in the Orange-winged Amazon Parrot one year postsurgery.
10.2307/30135048|Approximately one-third of the right ulna was surgically removed in a Pale-headed Rosella with an open fracture of the ulna and osteomyelitis. Concurrent injuries were rupture of the ligaments of the right hock and chronic fracture of the left tibiotarsus. Post-treatment, the bird is maintained in an aviary where it may serve as a breeder despite limited use of its right wing.
10.2307/30134952|An African Grey Parrot was presented with an exceptionally large soft tissue mass near the left eyelid. Because the bird's clinical and blood chemistry parameters were within the normal range, the tumor was surgically removed and histologically identified as a cystadenoma. Cystadenomas have not been previously described in this anatomical location.
10.2307/30134305|Heart disease in pet birds is rarely reported. This may be due to the fact that methods available to diagnose heart disease are not commonly used in birds. In this report, we describe a bird in which heart failure was diagnosed by electrocardiography and echocardiography. An 11-year-old mynah bird became acutely dyspneic, stopped talking and developed polyuria. A cardiac ultrasonic examination revealed mitral regurgitation with marked left atrial enlargement and right heart congestive heart failure. Electrocardiography (ECG) revealed dampened amplitude in all leads. The bird was given furosemide and digoxin, and clinicalsigns resolved. The bird has remained clinically normal for ten months. The unique aspect of this case is the antemortem diagnosis and treatment of heart disease in a bird. Diagnosis and treatment were facilitated by use of serial ECG recordings and echocardiography.
10.2307/30135045|Naturally acquired concurrent infection with avian polyomavirus and psittacine beak and feather disease virus in 13 psittacine birds was diagnosed using viral-specific DNA probes. Detection of dual viral infection was more sensitive using a molecular test that amplified and detected viral target DNA as opposed to DNA in situ hybridization or examination of H&E-stained tissue sections.
10.2307/27671122|Lung tumors of respiratory origin are rarely identified in avian species. A two-year-old female lutino cockatiel (Nymphicus hollandicus) was examined because of sneezing of six weeks' duration and severe dyspnea of three weeks' duration. Radiography revealed density in the left lung field. Endoscopic and histopathologic examination revealed the density to be caused by pulmonary fibraosarcoma. Hepatic metastases of the tumor were found at necropsy.
10.2307/30136970|Although many of the disease conditions seen in non-psittacine birds are also present in psittacine birds, others are somewhat unique to certain avian species. A complete listing of conditions is beyond the scope of this article; however, the following photographs offer a representation of common lesions and differential diagnoses that should be considered at necropsy.
10.2307/30136720|The Kodak SureCel Chlamydia Test Kit was evaluated for the detection of Chlamydia psittaci in 33 companion birds. Tissues from 20 of the birds were submitted for chlamydia culture. Ten of the 33 cases had positive chlamydia tests. When compared with the culture results, the chlamydia test had a specificity of 80% and a sensitivity of 100%. The test is easy to perform, rapid and can readily be used in the avian practitioner's clinic or in a referral laboratory.
10.2307/27671089|Two hundred forty-six birds, primarily psittacines, were sampled for the antemortem diagnosis of chlamydiosis. Diagnostic performance characteristics of organism (cell culture, SureCellTM and IDEIATM) and antibody (latex agglutination and BELISA) detection assays were investigated. Total positive rates for all tests ranged from 2.5% (cell culture) to 58.5% (BELISA). The two antibody detection assays gave markedly different results as indicated by total positive rates of 4.7% for latex agglutination and 58.5% for BELISA. Total positive rates for organism detection assays were 2.5% by culture, 4.2% by SureCell and 9.1% by IDEIA. Comparisons of organism detection assays relative to cell culture indicated that SureCell and IDEIA were equally sensitive (75%), and that SureCell had a specificity of 96% and IDEIA had a specificity of 85%.
10.2307/30135046|Visible light curing composites (VLFCC) have been used for repair of beak deformities but may have application for other areas of avian veterinary medicine. These composites may be used to create splints for initial stabilization of fractures or for the creation of stabilizing bars for a K-E apparatus. The use of visible light curing composites in the repair of pelvic limb fractures is discussed.
10.2307/30134992|A three-year-old Scarlet Macaw with progressive feather dystrophy and loss was confirmed to be infected with the psittacine beak and feather disease (PBFD) virus. Infected tissues were demonstrated to contain viral nucleic acid using viral-specific DNA probes, and viral protein using viral-specific antibodies. Electron microscopic examination of affected feather pulp revealed nonenveloped, icosahedral, 14-17 nm viral particles. The documentation of PBFD viral-induced feather abnormalities in a Scarlet Macaw suggests members of this genus as susceptible viral hosts.
10.2307/30133293|Eleven psittacine birds with owner complaints of feather picking, feather picking with excoriation, or self-mutilation were evaluated by physical examination, clinical pathologic testing, and feather and skin biopsy. All birds were judged to have primary behavior problems. The birds were treated with clomipramine HCl in incrementally increasing dosages. All birds were given 1.0 mg/kg orally, either once daily or divided BID, for six weeks before drug efficacy was evaluated. Three birds responded dramatically initially to clomipramine by decreasing feather picking or self-mutilating behavior One bird relapsed, but the other two birds remained in remission. Three other birds had positive attitude changes but did not decrease feather picking behavior. Five birds had no response to clomipramine. Side effects of clomipramine administration were minimal and consisted of occasional regurgitation and drowsiness.
10.2307/30161778|A description is given of symptomatology and pathology of canaries from which Enterococcus faecalis was isolated. Chronic respiratory symptoms were observed in most birds, with the predominant lesion being tracheitis. The typical symptoms and lesions were reproduced experimentally by subcutaneous and intraperitoneal inoculations with an E. faecalis strain, but attempts to cause infection by aerosolization were unsuccessful.
10.2307/27670971|Hematologic and serum biochemistry values were determined in 111 samples from 58 juvenile Eclectus Parrots at ages 30, 60, 90 and 180 days of age. Forty-three analytes were examined for age-related variations. Most hematologic parameters showed significant variation. Many serum biochemical parameters also varied with age but not so significantly as hematologic parameters.
10.2307/27670967|A small animal practitioner can usually feel pretty confident when he sends diagnostic samples from dogs and cats to a veterinary laboratory that the personnel are well-qualified and the results are valid and reproducible. However, he cannot necessarily include his avian samples with the shipment and expect to get the same quality results. Avian specimens require special handling and skill that may not be available. Without the avian expertise, the practitioner is wasting his client's money at the very least, and worse, may be placing stock in inappropriate results and causing damage to his patient. JAAV recently visited with Alan M. Fudge, DVM, owner and director of California Avian Laboratory (Citrus Heights, California), one of a handful of labs in the country specificially developed for the avian/exotic pet needs. We wanted to find out from the perspective of the laboratory how the avian practitioner can improve his diagnostic results in a cost-effective way.
10.2307/27670939|Differentiation of the heterophil from the eosinophil is one of the challenges of avian hematology. The diverse granular morphology of the avian eosinophil contributes to this dilemma. Familiarity with the normal morphology of these two cell types will help simplify the identification process. This paper describes eosinophil morphology, diversity and taxonomic correlation among thirty-four species of raptors.
10.2307/27671036|An epidemic of conjuctivitis and respiratory distress among captive Australian finches is reported. The mortality rate was approximately 70 percent. Characteristic clinical signs included severe conjunctivitis, dyspnea, depression and anorexia. Light microscopy revealed numerous basophilic intranuclear inclusions in karyomegalic epithelial cells of conjunctiva, esophagus and conducting respiratory tracts. Upon ultrastructural examination of the conjunctiva, numerous viral particles were seen in the epithelial cells, manifesting the characteristic cytomegalovirus morphogenesis.
10.2307/30133294|Multiple, nodular, dystrophic feather shafts were seen on physical examination in an eight-year-old cockatiel with pruritus and feather picking. Histologic examination of affected feathers and their associated follicles revealed an unusual form of feather dystrophy and heterophilic inflammation. Although no specific etiologic agent was found, the lesions resolved with antibacterial therapy, and we suspected that an unidentfied bacteria was the cause of disease.
10.2307/27671074|Psittacine beak and feather disease (PBFD) is caused by a virus that is a member of a new viral family with the proposed name Circodnaviridae. PBFD viral infection is spread primarily through contaminated feather dust, feces and regurgitated crop fluids. Viral infection is multi-systemic and produces inclusions in histologic sections of various tissues and organs, most notably skin and feathers. PBFD virus may be immunosuppressive as suggested by frequent bursal and thymic lesions. In addition, secondary bacterial, chlamydial, viral, fungal and protozoal infections are observed commonly. Control of PBFD will require improved diagnostic testing and an effective vaccine. (Reprinted in part with permission from Vet Pathol 28:300-304, 1991 and J Vet Diagn Invest 2:204-207, 1990.)
10.2307/30135066|A three-year-old male monk (Quaker) (Myiopsitta monachus) parakeet was examined because of a 1-cm mass on the left ventral carpus, a 1-cm mass on the left and one on the right lateral neck, and a 3-mm mass on the left proximal sternum. The mass in the left carpal area was adherent to the underlying tissue and the other three growths were movable and not adhered to the underlying tissue. The tumors were removed by surgical biopsy or at necropsy. Histopathologic examination of specimens confirmed moderately cellular, subdermal lymphosarcoma. Histologic examination of liver tissue revealed nonneoplastic, benign, multifocal hepatic lipidosis. This is an unusual case of a liposarcoma in a psittacine species and demonstrates why subdermal growths should be identified by standard biopsy. Once a liposarcoma has been diagnosed, quick removal is essential to prevent extensive local invasion and metastasis.
10.2307/30134296|Emergency: A situation or occurrence of a serious nature, developing suddenly and unexpectedly, and demanding immediate action.
10.2307/30143075|A Saker falcon was presented with clinical signs consistent with localized tetanus, apparently associated with a bumblefoot lesion. Treatment was successfully attempted with local debridement, systemic antimicrobial drugs, and immunotherapy. Clinical signs resolved gradually over a 30 day period.
10.2307/30136892|An adult female Marabou stork was treated for mandibular fracture and amputation by application of a methacrylate beak prosthesis secured to the mandibular bone by longitudinally placed Steinman pins. The immediate post-operative result was a fully functional lower beak prosthesis. Nine months later the prosthesis was observed to be weakening at the junction of the mandible and prosthesis, and it was removed. Since the bird had been taught alternative eating methods in the interim, replacement of the prosthesis was unnecessary.
10.2307/30134308|Diabetes mellitus was diagnosed in an African Grey Parrot with signs of polyuria, polydipsia, weight loss, hyperglycemia, glucosuria and low plasma insulin. Postmortem examination of this bird revealed pancreatic atrophy due to severe chronic lymphocytic pancreatitis. Inflammation was especially severe in the islets, and there were a few areas of moderate islet cell proliferation and hypertrophy. Pancreatic lesions were similar to those described for human insulin-dependent diabetes, and contrasted with findings reported in other birds with a diagnosis of diabetes mellitus.
10.2307/30161756|Three White-masked Lovebirds (Agapornis personata) with clinical signs of weight loss, depression, and conjunctivitis were submitted for postmortem evaluation. Histologic examination of multiple tissues stained with hematoxylin and eosin revealed basophilic intranuclear inclusions within karyomegalic renal epithelial and conjunctival endothelial cells. Electron microscopic examination of renal inclusions demonstrated 70- to 80-nm non-enveloped particles that resembled adenoviruses.
10.2307/27671087|Eight commercially available disinfectants, representing each of the major classes of chemical disinfectants, were evaluated for their ability to inactivate avian polyomavirus (budgerigar fledgling disease virus). Disinfectants were diluted according to the manufacturers' recommendations. Virus preparations were placed in contact with each diluted disinfectant for one minute and for five minutes at room temperature. After removal of the disinfectant by gel filtration, each sample was then placed in cell culture to determine whether the virus was inactivated. Virus preparations also were heated at 60C for 5 minutes and 30 minutes to determine the effect of heat on the infectivity of the virus. Of the eight disinfectants tested, 0.525% sodium hypochlorite (Clorox) was considered the most economical. A stabilized chlorine dioxide (Dent-A-Gene) was effective and would be expected to be the safest. Chlorbexidine (Nolvasan) reduced, but did not eliminate, the infectivity of avian polyomavirus, which may explain why aviaries that use this disinfectant in the nursery frequently experience polyomavirus outbreaks.
10.2307/30135043|An adult female wild-caught Ducorps' Cockatoo was donated to the University of Georgia Veterinary Teaching Hospital with feather pathology suggestive of psittacine beak and feather disease (PBFD). The bird was confirmed to have PBFD by the use of a viral-specific DNA probe. Three months after initial presentation, the bird was noted to be depressed and anorectic. Clinical findings were limited to a mycotic ingluvitis. The bird died two days later. At necropsy, white, 1.5 cm adult filarioid nematodes were found in the right atrium. On histopathology adults were also observed in the hepatic and renal veins. These nematodes were classified as Chandlerella sp. Filarioid nematodes have previously been documented in the heart of birds, but this is the first report demonstrating their presence in the heart of a Psittaciforme.
10.2307/27670941|The anatomy of the metacarpus of 23 specimens of various species of hawks, owls, vultures and psittacines was compared in order to develop a ventral surgical approach. The anatomy of this region was similar in all species except for slight variations in the course of the ventral interosseous artery between individuals.
10.2307/30136972|Normal anatomic and physiologic variations in the crops of a number of avian species are discussed.
10.2307/27671042|Hematologic and serum chemistry values were determined in 113 samples from 79 juvenile macaws of seven species. Birds were sampled at 30, 60, 90 or 180 days of age. Forty-seven analytes were examined for variations related to age. Most hematological and serum biochemical parameters examined varied significantly with age. Values for 30-, 60- and 90-day-old Blue and Gold Macaws (Ara ararauna) were compared to the same analyte, age group for all macaws. Significant differences were found in 13 of the 132 comparisons made and trends exhibited in analytes for all macaws were mirrored by the data for Blue and Gold Macaws.
10.2307/30135076|The regional anatomy of the psittacine coxofemoral joint is reviewed and compared to that of mammals. Differences include angle of the femoral head and neck to the femoral shaft, type of joint and range of motion, and thigh musculature. A case report of a new technique for open-reduction of a coxofemoral luxation is presented, including a discussion of coxofemoral luxations, repair techniques and their consequences. Coxofemoral luxations are uncommon injuries in avian species and may result from any force applied to the leg resulting in distraction and rotation of the hip relative to the pelvis. The coxofemoral joint in psittacines differs in structure and function from that of dogs and other mammals.
10.2307/30136923|Mast cell tumors in birds are seldom reported in the literature. Of those reported, most were found in owls and the tumors were most frequently reported in association with the head. This report describes the clinical and morphologic features of mast cell tumors in two owls.
10.2307/30136971|Eastern equine encephalomyelitis (EEE) virus was isolated from a Lady Gouldian Finch that died along with twenty-one other Lady Gouldian Finches in single cage. Although EEE is not commonly considered to be a clinical problem in avian species other than pheasants and emus, its role in this epidemic bears further investigation into the susceptibility of other aviary birds.
10.2307/27671069|A significant postprandial increase of plasma bile acid concentrations (PBAC) was observed in both racing pigeons and Mallards. There was no significant difference in the relative increase of PBAC between the two species, despite the fact that Mallards have a gall bladder, which is absent in racing pigeons. Although up to a 4.5-fold postprandial increase of PBAC was demonstrated in individual birds, the concentrations were never elevated more than 1.65-fold above the upper limit of the reference range, while in hapatobiliary disease five- to ten-fold increases over the upper limit of the reference range are common.
10.2307/30135006|A 13-month-old female ostrich was presented with a 20 cm x 5 cm soft tissue mass on the right ramus of the mandible, that developed at the site of a wound sustained five months earlier. Superficial healing occurred following initial treatment by the owner. Approximately one month later, a progressive swelling appeared in the affected area. The mass was surgically removed and identified histologically as a neuroma. The bird remained clinically normal 12 months after surgery.
10.2307/30135067|Chronic sinusitis caused by Nocardia asteroides was diagnosed in a red-lored Amazon parrot. Massive swelling with production of gray-green exudate was observed. After repeated flushing of the sinuses and treatment with antibiotics, the swelling resolved. Short-term relapses with swelling of the right sinus only were reported by the owner. Nocardiosos is a generalized bacterial disease,1,2 not uncommon in mammals, especially cats and dogs. The signs are purulent pleuritis and peritonitis.3 In birds, infection with Nocardia spp has rarely been reported, mainly in species other than psittacines. The signs are nonspecific, and the birds die suddenly. Diagnosis is made on necropsy. The primary infection site is the lower respiratory tract, from which site the aerobic, gram-positive, variably acid-fast bacterium spreads to other organs. The purpose of this clinical report is to describe chronic sinusitis in a red-lored Amazon parrot.
10.2307/27670896|A review of 45 cases of aspergillosis in pet birds (1955-1987) resulted in the tabulation of historical, clinical, histopathologic, and radiographic findings. Nearly one-half of the birds were Amazon parrots, and predisposing factors such as stress, poor nutrition and concurrent disease were present in 40 per cent of the cases. Clinical signs included weight loss and respiratory distress, while the most frequent histopathologic and radiographic findings were granulomatous pneumonia and air sacculitis.
10.2307/30136924|Avian predispositionfor ingestion of foreign bodies commonly results in toxicoses. Medical management utilizing systemic and gastrointestinal chelating agents and supportive therapy should be employed along with foreign body elimination via gastroscopy or purgatives. This paper presents an overview of these aspects of therapy.
10.2307/27671002|The gross and bistopathologic lesions of a multisystemic viral disease of psittacine birds are described as they occurred in a spontaneous outbreak. The name "avian viral serositis" is proposed because abdominal distension with serosal fluid is a prominent visible manifestation of the disease. Reproduction of the disease by experimental inoculation of young chickens with a virus recovered from the affected hand-fed macaws is reported. An apparent tropism of the virus for neural and muscular tissues is particularly interesting because little is known about the infectious causes of neuromuscular disease in avian species. Speculation that the new agent is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in psittacine birds, and may be a candidate for the etiologic agent myenteric ganglioneuritis (wasting disease) is offered.
10.2307/30135044|A thirteen-year-old cockatiel ben was presented with a history of regurgitation and passing yellow-green feces containing undigested seeds. A firm, freely movable nodular mass was palpable within the bird's crop. Surgical removal of a 1.5 cm x 1 cm calculus resulted in resolution of the clinical signs. The ingluviolith was composed principally of uric acid.
10.2307/30136975|An eight-year-old Moluccan Cockatoo developed a severe stifle luxation after a traumatic event. Due to the severity of the injury, the decision was made to arthrodese the stifle. In order to fuse the stifle in a functional position, multiple K-wires were placed in the lateral aspect of the femur and tibiotarsus, and a type-1 external fixator with a connecting bar composed of an acrylic polymer was used. The bird was weight bearing by day 4 after surgery, and 7 months after surgery the stifle was stable with no detectable movement. A seven-month-old Barn Owl was examined because of a closed stifle luxation. The stifle luxation was reduced and stabilized by an external fixation method similar to the one used for the cockatoo. External fixation for stifle repair in birds offers the advantages of no permanent implant, use of the limb during convalescence, and early return to function.
10.2307/30133277|This paper discusses the normal structure and histology of the avian cloaca and describes two techniques for obtaining cytologic samples from this region. Cells found in typical cytologic samples are illustrated.
10.2307/30134307|Hematologic, clinical chemistry, microbiologic and parasitologic data were obtained from sixteen captive Thick-billed Parrots. Hematologic and clinical chemistry values were generally similar to reports for other psittacine species. A neutrophil-like leukocyte that does not fit the criteria of a heterophil, basophil or eosinophil was observed in four birds. Ova of gastrointestinal parasites were not observed in fecal flotations from any of the birds. Pasteurella spp. was cultured from the choanae of 13 of the 16 birds sampled, but the presence of the bacteria was not associated with clinical disease. Reference intervals for hematologic, clinical chemistry and microbiologic parameters areprovided as baseline data for future comparisons.
10.2307/30133281|Ten Amazon parrots were diagnosed with cloacal papillomas during a 29-month period. Two of these birds, both Yellow-naped Amazons, died with bile duct carcinomas from five weeks to three and one-half months following the diagnosis and surgical removal of the papilloma.
10.2307/27671040|A false aneurysm and arteriovenous (AV) fistula were diagnosed in an eight-year-old female cockatiel with the aid of ultrasound. Trauma secondary to relieving egg binding may have been the underlying cause. The aneurysm was surgically resected and the bird recovered with no evidence of recurrence or sequela after 14 months.
10.2307/30136969|Two ratites were presented on separate occasions for anorexia and gastrointestinal distress. Both birds had high antibody titers for Toxoplasma gondii. The flock mates were negative for antibodies against T. gondii and appeared clinically normal. Because titers to T. gondii develop in animals only following infection, the high titer in the two affected birds suggests that they had toxoplasmosis. Taxoplasmosis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of ratites with anorexia, diarrhea and dyspnea. Cats should not have access to ratite feed or any areas where ratites are maintained. If ratites are to be considered as a food source, the possibility of T. gondii transmission needs to be investigated further.
10.2307/30143076|A novel virus isolated from the feather follicles of cockatoos diagnosed as having psittacine beak and feather disease was characterized by electron microscopy, nucleic acid content, and polypeptide composition. Purified virions displayed an icosahedral symmetry, were nonenveloped, and negatively stained particles had a mean diameter of 14 to 16 nm. Three major viral associated proteins were identified, with approximate molecular weights of 26.3, 23.7, and 15.9 kilodaltons. The viral nucleic acid was found to be single-stranded DNA based on acridine orange staining, resistance to alkali and ribonuclease, and sensitivity to both DNase1 and S1 nuclease. The DNA was estimated to be between 1.7 and 2.0 kilobases (kb) by agarose gel electrophoresis and this size and its circular conformation were confirmed by electron microscopy. A preliminary infectivity study using purified virus to infect neonatal budgerigars induced pathological lesions characteristic of those observed in the natural disease. Based on the extremely small size of the virions and the single-stranded circular viral DNA, we propose that the etiologic agent of psittacine beak and feather disease represents a previously undescribed viral pathogen. Based on the extremely small size of the virions and the small single-stranded circular viral DNA, we have proposed the name Diminuviridae to the International Committee on the Taxonomy of Viruses (ICTV) for the viral family to which the PBFD agent and similar viruses may belong.
10.2307/30136893|A mature, male Bald Eagle with a traumatic midshaft right tarsometatarsal bone amputation was successfully fitted and maintained with a prosthesis in a zoo environment. An interdisciplinary team consisting of a veterinarian, prosthetist, and physiatrist adapted techniques commonly used in human amputation management. A rigid removable dressing was used in the initial healing and fitting stages. A four part modular prosthesis was designed to incorporate the weight-bearing benefits of a below-knee, flexible socket and the suspension apparatus of a below- elbow prosthesis. With the prosthesis the eagle walked easily and perched well once modifications were made to the foot.
10.2307/30134301|The following questions have been submitted by AAV members for publication of comments through the journal or newsletter. Participating in this issue are Drs. Ken Warthen, Pembroke, Virginia; Scott McDonald, Westchester, Illinois; Karen Rosenthal, New York, New York; Nadine Lamberski, Davis, California. Readers are invited to submit further questions to AAV Education Office, 5770 Lake Worth Road, Lake Worth, FL 33463.
10.2307/30134302|A four-month-old Congo African Grey Parrot and a four-year-old Umbrella Cockatoo with histories of chronic nasal and ocular discharge respectively, were presented to the University of Georgia, College of Veterinary Medicine for evaluation. The choanal slit was absent in the Umbrella Cockatoo. In its place was a flat bonypalatine region with no evidence of choanae. The choanal region appeared grossly normal in the African Grey Parrot. During routine nasal flushing of both birds, it was noted that fluid would not pass from the nasal cavity into the oral cavity. Rhinograms indicated that there was no patent connection between the nasal and oral cavities. Endoscopic evaluation of the palatine region of the African Grey Parrot revealed a membrane covering the choanae. These two anatomically unique cases of choanal atresia are considered previously unreported congenital malformations in psittacine birds.
10.2307/30135077|An eight-year-old Moluccan cockatoo developed a severe stifle luxation after a traumatic event. Due to the severity of the injury, the decision was made to arthrodese the stifle. In order to fuse the stifle in a functional position, multiple K-wires were placed in the lateral aspect of the femur and tibiotarsus, and a type-1 external fixator with a connecting bar composed of an acrylic polymer was used. The bird was weight bearing by day four after surgery, and seven months after surgery the stifle was stable with no detectable movement. A seven-month-old barn owl was examined because of a closed stifle luxation. The stifle luxation was reduced and stabilized by an external fixation method similar to the one used for the cockatoo. External fixation for stifle repair in birds offers the advantages of no permanent implant, use of the limb during convalescence, and early return to function.
10.2307/30133295|Four adjuvants (mineral oil, E-3, Equimune, and Acemannan) were evaluated to determine their effect on the immunogenicity of inactivated polyomavirus and the degree of local or systemic reactions that they induced when injected into a group of mixed species of Psittaciformes. All four adjuvantantigen combinations were found to stimulate the production of anti-poly-omavirus neutralizing antibodies. All of the birds vaccinated with the oiladjuvanted vaccine developed abscesses or open draining lesions at the sites of subcutaneous inoculation. Three of the eight birds vaccinated with the E-3 adjuvanted vaccine died after the second inoculation. The Equimune adjuvanted vaccine induced small ulcerated lesions with subsequent scab formation in one of the three vaccinates. The Acemannan adjuvanted vaccine was associated with the mildest reaction which was limited to hyperemia at the site of initial subcutaneous inoculation in one of the seven vaccinates.
10.2307/30134306|A review of health records on a group of known age macaws provided some insight into their aging process and longevity. The most consistent and potentially debilitating aspect of aging in macaws was cataract formation. In most birds, the onset of cataract formation followed shortly after the decline of reproductive potential. Macaws have few natural predators. The effects of aging may be important in limiting the life span of wild as well as captive macaws.
10.2307/30133280|An imported Orange-winged Amazon was presented for recurring, nonresponsive cloacal prolapse. Laboratory examination and radiographs were nondiagnostic. The bird died suddenly and a histopathologic diagnosis of bile duct carcinoma was made. It is not known if the cloacal prolapse and the hepatic neoplasia were related.
10.2307/27671121|This case study adds to the limited number of reports in the literature of heart disease in avian species. Cardiomegaly and endocardial fibrosis were diagnosed on necropsy in a 10-year-old, male secretary bird (Sagirrarius serpentarius). The bird had been evaluated because of a decline in physical activity, intermittent, open-mouth breathing, serous nasal discharge, and partial anorexia of four days' duration. Heart failure had been diagnosed on the basis of physical examination findings, radiology, and echocardiology. The bird was treated with digoxin, furosemide, and enrofloxacin. The trough serum digoxin concentration was 1.4 ng/ml. The bird had briefly responded to treatment but was euthanatized because of coelomitis and hepatitis. On necropsy, in addition to the cardiomegaly and endocardial fibrosis, mild, diffuse endocardial hyperplasia and severe, multifocal hepatitis with hepatocellular atrophy and fibrosis were seen. An alpha hemolytic Streptococcus sp and Micrococcus sp were cultured from the coelomic cavity.
10.2307/27671120|Proventricular dilatation syndrome is characterized by involvement of central and peripheral nervous tissues with lymphoplasmacytic inflammatory infiltrates. A causative agent has not been found for proventricular dilatation syndrome, although virus-like inclusions have been observed in some affected tissues. Suspicion of proventricular dilatation syndrome is based on history, clinical signs, and radiographic evidence of proventricular enlargement or dysfunction. Definitive diagnosis of proventricular dilatation syndrome requires demonstration of characteristic lymphoplasmacytic infiltrates within nerves, ganglia, and neuropil.
10.2307/30136920|A ten-week-old Blue-fronted Amazon parrot was presented for respiratory distress and weakness. While hospitalized, it began regurgitating. Microscopic examination of the regurgitated material revealed large numbers of Trichomonas spp. and yeasts. Theparrot responded clinically to treatment with metronidazole but died shortly after treatment was discontinued. Necropsy revealed a large caseous mass distal to the thoracic inlet, which invaded andpartially obstructed the esophagus and trachea. Microscopic examination of touch impressions of the mass revealed granulomatous inflammation and large numbers of trichomonads.
10.2307/30136928|Adenovirus should be added to the list of differential diagnoses of liver disease in pigeons when intranuclear inclusion bodies are present. This report describes adenovirus particles in the nuclei of hepatocytes, hepatitis, necrosis and death in pigeons from two premises. Although a cause-and-effect relationship between adenovirus, liver lesions and death of these pigeons is logical, other factors such as excessive administration of medication may have exacerbated virus infection and clinical signs.
10.2307/30135078|The anatomy of the metacarpus of 23 specimens of various species of hawks, owls, vultures and psittacines was compared in order to develop a ventral surgical approach. The anatomy of this region was similar in all species except for slight variations in the course of the ventral interosseous artery between individuals.
10.2307/30134994|The use of evacuation pumps has been found to reduce occupational exposure of operating room personnel to high concentrations of halothane. In this study, the Vapor Vac by Ellman International Manufacturing was found to effectively reduce this risk during avian surgery.
10.2307/30135011|An adult Blue and Gold Macaw was diagnosed as having a facial fibrosarcoma. The tumor was treated by surgical debulking, followed by orthovoltage radiotherapy (44 Greys, divided into 11 separate treatments). After six radiation treatments, the tumor had increased in size and intratumoral cisplatin was added to the treatment regimen. Intratumoral injections of cisplatin, in a repositol matrix, were administered prior to the eighth and eleventh radiation treatments. Antitumor therapy held the tumor in remission for 29 months post-treatment.
10.2307/30136724|Paraffin-embedded cutaneous tissues from 87 psittacine birds with various feather disorders were tested for thepresence of psittacine beak and feather disease (PBFD) virus by routine histopathology, immunoperoxidase staining and DNA dot-blot hybridization. The diagnostic sensitivity in detecting birds with PBFD was 97.7% for the DNA dot-blot assay, 76.4% for immunoperoxidase staining and 72.4% for examination of hematoxylin and eosin-stained histologic sections. The diagnostic specificity in detecting PBFD-free birds was 100% for the DNA dot-blot assay, 100% for immunoperoxidase staining and 93.8% for examination of H&E-stained tissue sections. This study indicates that dot-blot hybridization using viral-specific DNA probes is the preferred method for diagnosis of PBFD, especially if typical viral inclusions are not apparent in histological sections.
10.2307/27670895|Seventeen blood chemistry parameters were measured in macaws, Amazon parrots, cockatoos, African grey parrots and budgerigars using a Kodak Ektachem system. Reference values for the dry chemistry system were established for the five species. Investigation fo the data revealed significant deviations in values obtained from different species. Fewer variations were found between male and female birds of the same speciese.
10.2307/27671123|Mucormycosis has rarely been reported in birds. A four-year-old chattering lory was examined because of progressive neurologic defects culminating in seizures. Results of clinical pathologic testing, including plasma electrophoresis, suggested systemic inflammatory disease. On necropsy, massive numbers of fungal hyphae showing morphologic characteristics consistent with the order Mucorales were seen in the pulmonary parenchyma. Evidence of hyphal invasion of cerebral blood vessels and dissemination of the organism in the cerebrum was also seen. The fungal organisms were identified as Absidia sp. by direct fluorescent antibody testing.
10.2307/30136722|Proventricular dilatation syndrome (PDS) was diagnosed on the basis of clinical findings, contrast radiography and histopathology in an adult Senegal Parrot, Timneh African Grey Parrot and a hybrid macaw (Blue and Gold x Scarlet). Electron microscopy demonstrated intranuclear inclusion bodies within the proventricular wall of the Senegal Parrot.
10.2307/30161768|A case of internal hydrocephalus with dilation of the lateral and fourth ventricles was diagnosed by histopathology in a young African Grey Parrot (Psittacus erithacus timneh). Treatment with calcium supplements and phenobarbital elixir may have initially controlled the seizures for which the bird was presented. Limited hematological studies were not contributory to the diagnosis.
10.2307/27671072|An outbreak of polyomavirus in a collection of mixed psittacine birds resulted in a number of neonatal deaths. In addition, an adult Eclectus Parrot, Painted Conure and three White-bellied Caiques died during the outbreak with clinical histories and pathologic lesions suggestive of polyomavirus. Polyomavirus has rarely been associated with clinical disease in adult psittacine birds. This outbreak suggests that some adult birds amy be susceptible to polyomavirus infection during epornitics. The outbreak was controlled by removing birds from the collection that were found by the use of a DNA probe to be shedding polyomavirus from the cloaca.
10.2307/27670973|Budgerigars were experimentally infected with Mycoplasma gallisepticum (MG) R strain. One group of MG-inoculated birds and the control birds were treated with Respiral, a respiratory inhalant. All birds were assessed for clinical signs of disease throughout the study, and selected birds from each group were euthanatized for histopathologic examination of the trachea and air sacs. Respiral was shown to be efficacious in reducing the severity of clinical disease. Respiral, if used in conjunction with appropriate antibiotic therapy, may be useful in the treatment of MG and other respiratory infections.
10.2307/30161755|The regional anatomy of the avian coxofemoral joint is reviewed and compared to that of mammals. Differences include angle of the femoral head and neck to the femoral shaft, type of joint and range of motion, and thigh musculature. A case report of a new technique for open-reduction of a coxofemoral luxation is presented, including a discussion of coxofemoral luxations, repair techniques and their consequences.
10.2307/27671041|The clinical presentation, distribution of lesions and epidemiologic effects of the avian polyomavirus are dramatically different among susceptible species. Clinical infections are most common in young psittacine birds and finches although adults of varying species can also be affected. In larger psittacine birds, polyomavirus infections may cause peracute death with no premonitory signs, or acute death after development of multisystemic clinical changes. Infected birds that recover are thought to become asymptomatic virus carriers. This paper presents current information on the clinical features, pathology, pathogenesis, immunity, diagnosis, epidemiology, and control of polyomavirus in birds.
10.2307/27670892|Fifty juvenile macaws ranging in age from six weeks to seven months were examined endoscopically. The examinations were recorded electronically for later review. Based on these data, a systematic technique for the differentiation of the male and female gonads in juvenile macaws is proposed. The developmental changes in ovarian morphology observed in this group are also discussed with relationship to chronology.
10.2307/30135008|A diagnosis of polyomavirus was made in three Black-bellied Seed Crackers based on histopathology and electron microscopy. The inability to detect polyomavirus in these finches using molecular techniques that are effective in psittacine birds suggests that a virus with a varied genome exists in finches.
10.2307/30136925|Important gross observations at necropsy may provide insights into clinical signs and disease progression. The ability of an avian practitioner to recognize anatomical variations and disease-induced lesions improves with experience and study. A photo essay is presented to demonstrate selected lesions observed at necropsy and possible interpretation(s) of these findings.
10.2307/27671073|As an aid in diagnosing reproductive problems in psittacine birds, color photographs and text describe typical fertile and infertile eggs, early developmental failures and four selected stages of normal embryonic Cockatiel development.
10.2307/27671085|Avian polyomavirus infections continue to cause high levels of mortality in companion and aviary birds, resulting in psychological distress for clients and financial burdens for aviculturists and retail distributors. The immunogenic properties of an inactivated, oil-adjuvanted, avian polyomavirus vaccine were evaluated in a group of Blue and Gold Macaw chicks. The vaccine induced virus neutralizing antibodies in all of the vaccinates. The immunoprophylactic efficacy of this vaccine was suggested by detecting a measurable antibody response in the vaccinated chicks, and by demonstrating that the vaccinates were protected from subsequent challenge with live virus. Unvaccinated chicks challenged with live virus developed a greater than six-fold increase in virus neutralizing antibody titers that were considered indicative of an active infection. The oil-adjuvanted vaccine used in this study caused granuloma formation at sites of subcutaneous injection in all vaccinates. The results of this study suggest that an inactivated vaccine will provide a method of preventing avian polyomavirus infection, once a safe and effective adjuvant has been identified.
10.2307/30136891|The ability of birds to effectively ventilate through a cannulated air sac during tracheal obstruction was determined in eight male Pekin ducks. The birds were induced with phenobarbital and intubated. A cannula was placed in the clavicular air sac and then occluded. Baseline clinical measurements were made, and the endotracheal tube was then occluded and the air sac cannula opened to room air. Clinical values taken at intervals over the next sixty-minute period indicated that cannulation of an air sac is a reasonable therapeutic alternative for managing birds with tracheal obstructions.
10.2307/30133279|With the aid of multiple clinical procedures, a four-year-old Pekin duck was diagnosed with malignant lymphoma and leukemia accompanied by pneumonia and cardiac failure. The bird initially responded to chemotherapy but was euthanized one month after presentation due to respiratory distress and spontaneous hemorrhages. This case report includes a discussion of lymphoma in birds.
10.2307/30134303|In this report we describe intralesional herpes-like virus (HLV) associated with a cloacal papilloma (CP) in an Orange-fronted Conure. The relationship between herpesvirus and CP in the present report may be only incidental. However, epornithologic features of CP suggest an infectious etiology, and avian herpesvirus can be oncogenic. There is a continuing need for virus isolation and identification expertise among diagnosticians who work with Psittaciforme patients. When clinicians and pathologists recognize cases of tumorous disease (including CPs), they should consider virus isolation as the first step toward the detection of agents associated with these disorders.
10.2307/30135007|This report describes a case of fatal bronchopneumonia associated with intralesional cryptosporidiosis in a Wood Duck (Aix sponsa). No other organisms were seen or were cultured, and no other cause of death could be established. Although fatal respiratory disease has been reported in Cryptosporidium-infected Coturnix quail, and Cryptosporidium baileyi can cause fatal respiratory illnesses in chickens and turkeys, the relationship between parasitism and fatal bronchopneumonia in this duck is not known.
10.2307/27671088|Proventriculitis caused by megabacteria and Candida sp. was diagnosed in a Lesser Sulphur-crested Cockatoo. The only presenting clinical sign was anorexia. Gram's stains of the feces and choana were negative for these organisms. Diagnosis was made with cytology samples taken during endoscopy. Successful treatment was accomplished with ketoconazole and a Lactobacillus sp. supplement.
10.2307/30161766|A four-year-old Greater Indian Hill Mynah was presented with severe dyspnea, coughing and ascites. Abdominocentesis and oxygen supplementation provided immediate relief of the dyspnea. Prominent radiographic findings were cardiomegaly and hepatomegaly, and clinical abnormalities included elevated packed cell volume, hypoproteinemia and elevation of aspartate aminotransferase. These findings were suggestive of a hepatopathy with avian hemochromatosis as the primary rule-out. A course of weekly phlebotomies was instituted and the mynah was maintained on a low-iron diet. The ascites and dyspnea regressed with treatment, and the bird remained free of symptoms for 12 weeks before it died abruptly. Hemochromatosis was confirmed at necropsy. A review of hemochromatosis as well as a suggested protocol for the management of acute, decompensated hemochromatosis in mynahs is presented.
10.2307/27671000|Hematologic and serum biochemistry values were determined in 152 samples from 87 juvenile cockatoos of nine species. Birds were sampled at 30, 60, 90 or 180 days of age. Forty-seven analytes were examined for variations related to age. Most hematological and serum biochemical parameters examined varied significantly with age. Values for Umbrella Cockatoos were compared to the same analyte, age group for all cockatoos. Significant differences were found in 49 of the 196 comparisons made, with variations in at least one age group in 29 of the 47 analytes.
10.2307/30136922|A four-year-old female Cockatiel died after a two-month history of polyuria, lethargy, colorpattern changes and eventual blindness. Necropsy revealed a mass near the pituitary gland, which was identified by histopathology as a pituitary adenoma.
10.2307/30135010|A case of malignant melanoma in an African Grey Parrot is reported, apparently originating in the nasal sinuses and metastasizing to several organs. This tumor appears to be very uncommon in companion and aviary birds; no case has been reported in the last five years.
10.2307/27671119|Lymphosarcoma was diagnosed in a juvenile blue and gold macaw (Ara ararauna) and a mature canary (Serinus canarius). The macaw was examined because of anorexia and inactivity of one week's duration. Physical examination revealed depression, ataxia, blindness, weight loss, and neurologic dysfunction. The bird was euthanatized when it began having seizures. Histopathologic examination of tissue samples taken at necropsy revealed diffuse infiltration of the liver, spleen, and kidneys with pleomorphic lymphocytes. The canary was examined because of inactivity of a few days' duration. On physical examination, the bird was weak, dyspneic, emaciated and had a greatly swollen abdomen. Necropsy revealed a large liver, and histopathologic examination showed discrete, focal, lymphoid cell infiltration of the liver and atypical mycobacteriosis involving the lungs.
27671090|Three Great-billed Parrots (Tanygnathus megalorynchos) out of a flock of ten died acutely with only lethargy and hematochezia noted prior to death. Clostridium perfringens was recovered from one of the birds, and organisms suggestive of C. perfringens were identified by a Gram's stain of the feces of a second bird. Clinical signs, diagnostic tests, necropsy findings and histopathologic changes associated with C. perfringens in psittacine birds, poultry and Tanygnathus sp. are discussed.
10.2307/30135050|Ophthalmic problems are commonly noted in companion birds, resulting from infections, tumors and trauma. This report describes a surgical technique that allows for removal of supraorbital abscesses or masses with minimal blood loss. In this case, a chronic subconjunctival Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection caused the supraorbital abscesses that required surgical correction. No recurrence of the infection or supraorbital abscesses was noted in the Orange-winged Amazon Parrot one year postsurgery.
10.2307/30135048|Approximately one-third of the right ulna was surgically removed in a Pale-headed Rosella with an open fracture of the ulna and osteomyelitis. Concurrent injuries were rupture of the ligaments of the right hock and chronic fracture of the left tibiotarsus. Post-treatment, the bird is maintained in an aviary where it may serve as a breeder despite limited use of its right wing.
10.2307/30134952|An African Grey Parrot was presented with an exceptionally large soft tissue mass near the left eyelid. Because the bird's clinical and blood chemistry parameters were within the normal range, the tumor was surgically removed and histologically identified as a cystadenoma. Cystadenomas have not been previously described in this anatomical location.
10.2307/30134305|Heart disease in pet birds is rarely reported. This may be due to the fact that methods available to diagnose heart disease are not commonly used in birds. In this report, we describe a bird in which heart failure was diagnosed by electrocardiography and echocardiography. An 11-year-old mynah bird became acutely dyspneic, stopped talking and developed polyuria. A cardiac ultrasonic examination revealed mitral regurgitation with marked left atrial enlargement and right heart congestive heart failure. Electrocardiography (ECG) revealed dampened amplitude in all leads. The bird was given furosemide and digoxin, and clinicalsigns resolved. The bird has remained clinically normal for ten months. The unique aspect of this case is the antemortem diagnosis and treatment of heart disease in a bird. Diagnosis and treatment were facilitated by use of serial ECG recordings and echocardiography.
10.2307/30135045|Naturally acquired concurrent infection with avian polyomavirus and psittacine beak and feather disease virus in 13 psittacine birds was diagnosed using viral-specific DNA probes. Detection of dual viral infection was more sensitive using a molecular test that amplified and detected viral target DNA as opposed to DNA in situ hybridization or examination of H&E-stained tissue sections.
10.2307/27671122|Lung tumors of respiratory origin are rarely identified in avian species. A two-year-old female lutino cockatiel (Nymphicus hollandicus) was examined because of sneezing of six weeks' duration and severe dyspnea of three weeks' duration. Radiography revealed density in the left lung field. Endoscopic and histopathologic examination revealed the density to be caused by pulmonary fibraosarcoma. Hepatic metastases of the tumor were found at necropsy.
10.2307/30136970|Although many of the disease conditions seen in non-psittacine birds are also present in psittacine birds, others are somewhat unique to certain avian species. A complete listing of conditions is beyond the scope of this article; however, the following photographs offer a representation of common lesions and differential diagnoses that should be considered at necropsy.
10.2307/30136720|The Kodak SureCel Chlamydia Test Kit was evaluated for the detection of Chlamydia psittaci in 33 companion birds. Tissues from 20 of the birds were submitted for chlamydia culture. Ten of the 33 cases had positive chlamydia tests. When compared with the culture results, the chlamydia test had a specificity of 80% and a sensitivity of 100%. The test is easy to perform, rapid and can readily be used in the avian practitioner's clinic or in a referral laboratory.
10.2307/27671089|Two hundred forty-six birds, primarily psittacines, were sampled for the antemortem diagnosis of chlamydiosis. Diagnostic performance characteristics of organism (cell culture, SureCellTM and IDEIATM) and antibody (latex agglutination and BELISA) detection assays were investigated. Total positive rates for all tests ranged from 2.5% (cell culture) to 58.5% (BELISA). The two antibody detection assays gave markedly different results as indicated by total positive rates of 4.7% for latex agglutination and 58.5% for BELISA. Total positive rates for organism detection assays were 2.5% by culture, 4.2% by SureCell and 9.1% by IDEIA. Comparisons of organism detection assays relative to cell culture indicated that SureCell and IDEIA were equally sensitive (75%), and that SureCell had a specificity of 96% and IDEIA had a specificity of 85%.
10.2307/30135046|Visible light curing composites (VLFCC) have been used for repair of beak deformities but may have application for other areas of avian veterinary medicine. These composites may be used to create splints for initial stabilization of fractures or for the creation of stabilizing bars for a K-E apparatus. The use of visible light curing composites in the repair of pelvic limb fractures is discussed.
10.2307/30134992|A three-year-old Scarlet Macaw with progressive feather dystrophy and loss was confirmed to be infected with the psittacine beak and feather disease (PBFD) virus. Infected tissues were demonstrated to contain viral nucleic acid using viral-specific DNA probes, and viral protein using viral-specific antibodies. Electron microscopic examination of affected feather pulp revealed nonenveloped, icosahedral, 14-17 nm viral particles. The documentation of PBFD viral-induced feather abnormalities in a Scarlet Macaw suggests members of this genus as susceptible viral hosts.
10.2307/30133293|Eleven psittacine birds with owner complaints of feather picking, feather picking with excoriation, or self-mutilation were evaluated by physical examination, clinical pathologic testing, and feather and skin biopsy. All birds were judged to have primary behavior problems. The birds were treated with clomipramine HCl in incrementally increasing dosages. All birds were given 1.0 mg/kg orally, either once daily or divided BID, for six weeks before drug efficacy was evaluated. Three birds responded dramatically initially to clomipramine by decreasing feather picking or self-mutilating behavior One bird relapsed, but the other two birds remained in remission. Three other birds had positive attitude changes but did not decrease feather picking behavior. Five birds had no response to clomipramine. Side effects of clomipramine administration were minimal and consisted of occasional regurgitation and drowsiness.
10.2307/30161778|A description is given of symptomatology and pathology of canaries from which Enterococcus faecalis was isolated. Chronic respiratory symptoms were observed in most birds, with the predominant lesion being tracheitis. The typical symptoms and lesions were reproduced experimentally by subcutaneous and intraperitoneal inoculations with an E. faecalis strain, but attempts to cause infection by aerosolization were unsuccessful.
10.2307/27670971|Hematologic and serum biochemistry values were determined in 111 samples from 58 juvenile Eclectus Parrots at ages 30, 60, 90 and 180 days of age. Forty-three analytes were examined for age-related variations. Most hematologic parameters showed significant variation. Many serum biochemical parameters also varied with age but not so significantly as hematologic parameters.
10.2307/27670967|A small animal practitioner can usually feel pretty confident when he sends diagnostic samples from dogs and cats to a veterinary laboratory that the personnel are well-qualified and the results are valid and reproducible. However, he cannot necessarily include his avian samples with the shipment and expect to get the same quality results. Avian specimens require special handling and skill that may not be available. Without the avian expertise, the practitioner is wasting his client's money at the very least, and worse, may be placing stock in inappropriate results and causing damage to his patient. JAAV recently visited with Alan M. Fudge, DVM, owner and director of California Avian Laboratory (Citrus Heights, California), one of a handful of labs in the country specificially developed for the avian/exotic pet needs. We wanted to find out from the perspective of the laboratory how the avian practitioner can improve his diagnostic results in a cost-effective way.
10.2307/27670939|Differentiation of the heterophil from the eosinophil is one of the challenges of avian hematology. The diverse granular morphology of the avian eosinophil contributes to this dilemma. Familiarity with the normal morphology of these two cell types will help simplify the identification process. This paper describes eosinophil morphology, diversity and taxonomic correlation among thirty-four species of raptors.
10.2307/27671036|An epidemic of conjuctivitis and respiratory distress among captive Australian finches is reported. The mortality rate was approximately 70 percent. Characteristic clinical signs included severe conjunctivitis, dyspnea, depression and anorexia. Light microscopy revealed numerous basophilic intranuclear inclusions in karyomegalic epithelial cells of conjunctiva, esophagus and conducting respiratory tracts. Upon ultrastructural examination of the conjunctiva, numerous viral particles were seen in the epithelial cells, manifesting the characteristic cytomegalovirus morphogenesis.
10.2307/30133294|Multiple, nodular, dystrophic feather shafts were seen on physical examination in an eight-year-old cockatiel with pruritus and feather picking. Histologic examination of affected feathers and their associated follicles revealed an unusual form of feather dystrophy and heterophilic inflammation. Although no specific etiologic agent was found, the lesions resolved with antibacterial therapy, and we suspected that an unidentfied bacteria was the cause of disease.
10.2307/27671074|Psittacine beak and feather disease (PBFD) is caused by a virus that is a member of a new viral family with the proposed name Circodnaviridae. PBFD viral infection is spread primarily through contaminated feather dust, feces and regurgitated crop fluids. Viral infection is multi-systemic and produces inclusions in histologic sections of various tissues and organs, most notably skin and feathers. PBFD virus may be immunosuppressive as suggested by frequent bursal and thymic lesions. In addition, secondary bacterial, chlamydial, viral, fungal and protozoal infections are observed commonly. Control of PBFD will require improved diagnostic testing and an effective vaccine. (Reprinted in part with permission from Vet Pathol 28:300-304, 1991 and J Vet Diagn Invest 2:204-207, 1990.)
10.2307/30135066|A three-year-old male monk (Quaker) (Myiopsitta monachus) parakeet was examined because of a 1-cm mass on the left ventral carpus, a 1-cm mass on the left and one on the right lateral neck, and a 3-mm mass on the left proximal sternum. The mass in the left carpal area was adherent to the underlying tissue and the other three growths were movable and not adhered to the underlying tissue. The tumors were removed by surgical biopsy or at necropsy. Histopathologic examination of specimens confirmed moderately cellular, subdermal lymphosarcoma. Histologic examination of liver tissue revealed nonneoplastic, benign, multifocal hepatic lipidosis. This is an unusual case of a liposarcoma in a psittacine species and demonstrates why subdermal growths should be identified by standard biopsy. Once a liposarcoma has been diagnosed, quick removal is essential to prevent extensive local invasion and metastasis.
10.2307/30134296|Emergency: A situation or occurrence of a serious nature, developing suddenly and unexpectedly, and demanding immediate action.
10.2307/30143075|A Saker falcon was presented with clinical signs consistent with localized tetanus, apparently associated with a bumblefoot lesion. Treatment was successfully attempted with local debridement, systemic antimicrobial drugs, and immunotherapy. Clinical signs resolved gradually over a 30 day period.
10.2307/30136892|An adult female Marabou stork was treated for mandibular fracture and amputation by application of a methacrylate beak prosthesis secured to the mandibular bone by longitudinally placed Steinman pins. The immediate post-operative result was a fully functional lower beak prosthesis. Nine months later the prosthesis was observed to be weakening at the junction of the mandible and prosthesis, and it was removed. Since the bird had been taught alternative eating methods in the interim, replacement of the prosthesis was unnecessary.
10.2307/30134308|Diabetes mellitus was diagnosed in an African Grey Parrot with signs of polyuria, polydipsia, weight loss, hyperglycemia, glucosuria and low plasma insulin. Postmortem examination of this bird revealed pancreatic atrophy due to severe chronic lymphocytic pancreatitis. Inflammation was especially severe in the islets, and there were a few areas of moderate islet cell proliferation and hypertrophy. Pancreatic lesions were similar to those described for human insulin-dependent diabetes, and contrasted with findings reported in other birds with a diagnosis of diabetes mellitus.
10.2307/30161756|Three White-masked Lovebirds (Agapornis personata) with clinical signs of weight loss, depression, and conjunctivitis were submitted for postmortem evaluation. Histologic examination of multiple tissues stained with hematoxylin and eosin revealed basophilic intranuclear inclusions within karyomegalic renal epithelial and conjunctival endothelial cells. Electron microscopic examination of renal inclusions demonstrated 70- to 80-nm non-enveloped particles that resembled adenoviruses.
10.2307/27671087|Eight commercially available disinfectants, representing each of the major classes of chemical disinfectants, were evaluated for their ability to inactivate avian polyomavirus (budgerigar fledgling disease virus). Disinfectants were diluted according to the manufacturers' recommendations. Virus preparations were placed in contact with each diluted disinfectant for one minute and for five minutes at room temperature. After removal of the disinfectant by gel filtration, each sample was then placed in cell culture to determine whether the virus was inactivated. Virus preparations also were heated at 60C for 5 minutes and 30 minutes to determine the effect of heat on the infectivity of the virus. Of the eight disinfectants tested, 0.525% sodium hypochlorite (Clorox) was considered the most economical. A stabilized chlorine dioxide (Dent-A-Gene) was effective and would be expected to be the safest. Chlorbexidine (Nolvasan) reduced, but did not eliminate, the infectivity of avian polyomavirus, which may explain why aviaries that use this disinfectant in the nursery frequently experience polyomavirus outbreaks.
10.2307/30135043|An adult female wild-caught Ducorps' Cockatoo was donated to the University of Georgia Veterinary Teaching Hospital with feather pathology suggestive of psittacine beak and feather disease (PBFD). The bird was confirmed to have PBFD by the use of a viral-specific DNA probe. Three months after initial presentation, the bird was noted to be depressed and anorectic. Clinical findings were limited to a mycotic ingluvitis. The bird died two days later. At necropsy, white, 1.5 cm adult filarioid nematodes were found in the right atrium. On histopathology adults were also observed in the hepatic and renal veins. These nematodes were classified as Chandlerella sp. Filarioid nematodes have previously been documented in the heart of birds, but this is the first report demonstrating their presence in the heart of a Psittaciforme.
10.2307/27670941|The anatomy of the metacarpus of 23 specimens of various species of hawks, owls, vultures and psittacines was compared in order to develop a ventral surgical approach. The anatomy of this region was similar in all species except for slight variations in the course of the ventral interosseous artery between individuals.
10.2307/30136972|Normal anatomic and physiologic variations in the crops of a number of avian species are discussed.
10.2307/27671042|Hematologic and serum chemistry values were determined in 113 samples from 79 juvenile macaws of seven species. Birds were sampled at 30, 60, 90 or 180 days of age. Forty-seven analytes were examined for variations related to age. Most hematological and serum biochemical parameters examined varied significantly with age. Values for 30-, 60- and 90-day-old Blue and Gold Macaws (Ara ararauna) were compared to the same analyte, age group for all macaws. Significant differences were found in 13 of the 132 comparisons made and trends exhibited in analytes for all macaws were mirrored by the data for Blue and Gold Macaws.
10.2307/30135076|The regional anatomy of the psittacine coxofemoral joint is reviewed and compared to that of mammals. Differences include angle of the femoral head and neck to the femoral shaft, type of joint and range of motion, and thigh musculature. A case report of a new technique for open-reduction of a coxofemoral luxation is presented, including a discussion of coxofemoral luxations, repair techniques and their consequences. Coxofemoral luxations are uncommon injuries in avian species and may result from any force applied to the leg resulting in distraction and rotation of the hip relative to the pelvis. The coxofemoral joint in psittacines differs in structure and function from that of dogs and other mammals.
10.2307/30136923|Mast cell tumors in birds are seldom reported in the literature. Of those reported, most were found in owls and the tumors were most frequently reported in association with the head. This report describes the clinical and morphologic features of mast cell tumors in two owls.
10.2307/30136971|Eastern equine encephalomyelitis (EEE) virus was isolated from a Lady Gouldian Finch that died along with twenty-one other Lady Gouldian Finches in single cage. Although EEE is not commonly considered to be a clinical problem in avian species other than pheasants and emus, its role in this epidemic bears further investigation into the susceptibility of other aviary birds.
10.2307/27671069|A significant postprandial increase of plasma bile acid concentrations (PBAC) was observed in both racing pigeons and Mallards. There was no significant difference in the relative increase of PBAC between the two species, despite the fact that Mallards have a gall bladder, which is absent in racing pigeons. Although up to a 4.5-fold postprandial increase of PBAC was demonstrated in individual birds, the concentrations were never elevated more than 1.65-fold above the upper limit of the reference range, while in hapatobiliary disease five- to ten-fold increases over the upper limit of the reference range are common.
10.2307/30135006|A 13-month-old female ostrich was presented with a 20 cm x 5 cm soft tissue mass on the right ramus of the mandible, that developed at the site of a wound sustained five months earlier. Superficial healing occurred following initial treatment by the owner. Approximately one month later, a progressive swelling appeared in the affected area. The mass was surgically removed and identified histologically as a neuroma. The bird remained clinically normal 12 months after surgery.
10.2307/30135067|Chronic sinusitis caused by Nocardia asteroides was diagnosed in a red-lored Amazon parrot. Massive swelling with production of gray-green exudate was observed. After repeated flushing of the sinuses and treatment with antibiotics, the swelling resolved. Short-term relapses with swelling of the right sinus only were reported by the owner. Nocardiosos is a generalized bacterial disease,1,2 not uncommon in mammals, especially cats and dogs. The signs are purulent pleuritis and peritonitis.3 In birds, infection with Nocardia spp has rarely been reported, mainly in species other than psittacines. The signs are nonspecific, and the birds die suddenly. Diagnosis is made on necropsy. The primary infection site is the lower respiratory tract, from which site the aerobic, gram-positive, variably acid-fast bacterium spreads to other organs. The purpose of this clinical report is to describe chronic sinusitis in a red-lored Amazon parrot.
10.2307/27670896|A review of 45 cases of aspergillosis in pet birds (1955-1987) resulted in the tabulation of historical, clinical, histopathologic, and radiographic findings. Nearly one-half of the birds were Amazon parrots, and predisposing factors such as stress, poor nutrition and concurrent disease were present in 40 per cent of the cases. Clinical signs included weight loss and respiratory distress, while the most frequent histopathologic and radiographic findings were granulomatous pneumonia and air sacculitis.
10.2307/30136924|Avian predispositionfor ingestion of foreign bodies commonly results in toxicoses. Medical management utilizing systemic and gastrointestinal chelating agents and supportive therapy should be employed along with foreign body elimination via gastroscopy or purgatives. This paper presents an overview of these aspects of therapy.
10.2307/27671002|The gross and bistopathologic lesions of a multisystemic viral disease of psittacine birds are described as they occurred in a spontaneous outbreak. The name "avian viral serositis" is proposed because abdominal distension with serosal fluid is a prominent visible manifestation of the disease. Reproduction of the disease by experimental inoculation of young chickens with a virus recovered from the affected hand-fed macaws is reported. An apparent tropism of the virus for neural and muscular tissues is particularly interesting because little is known about the infectious causes of neuromuscular disease in avian species. Speculation that the new agent is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in psittacine birds, and may be a candidate for the etiologic agent myenteric ganglioneuritis (wasting disease) is offered.
10.2307/30135044|A thirteen-year-old cockatiel ben was presented with a history of regurgitation and passing yellow-green feces containing undigested seeds. A firm, freely movable nodular mass was palpable within the bird's crop. Surgical removal of a 1.5 cm x 1 cm calculus resulted in resolution of the clinical signs. The ingluviolith was composed principally of uric acid.
10.2307/30136975|An eight-year-old Moluccan Cockatoo developed a severe stifle luxation after a traumatic event. Due to the severity of the injury, the decision was made to arthrodese the stifle. In order to fuse the stifle in a functional position, multiple K-wires were placed in the lateral aspect of the femur and tibiotarsus, and a type-1 external fixator with a connecting bar composed of an acrylic polymer was used. The bird was weight bearing by day 4 after surgery, and 7 months after surgery the stifle was stable with no detectable movement. A seven-month-old Barn Owl was examined because of a closed stifle luxation. The stifle luxation was reduced and stabilized by an external fixation method similar to the one used for the cockatoo. External fixation for stifle repair in birds offers the advantages of no permanent implant, use of the limb during convalescence, and early return to function.
10.2307/30133277|This paper discusses the normal structure and histology of the avian cloaca and describes two techniques for obtaining cytologic samples from this region. Cells found in typical cytologic samples are illustrated.
10.2307/30134307|Hematologic, clinical chemistry, microbiologic and parasitologic data were obtained from sixteen captive Thick-billed Parrots. Hematologic and clinical chemistry values were generally similar to reports for other psittacine species. A neutrophil-like leukocyte that does not fit the criteria of a heterophil, basophil or eosinophil was observed in four birds. Ova of gastrointestinal parasites were not observed in fecal flotations from any of the birds. Pasteurella spp. was cultured from the choanae of 13 of the 16 birds sampled, but the presence of the bacteria was not associated with clinical disease. Reference intervals for hematologic, clinical chemistry and microbiologic parameters areprovided as baseline data for future comparisons.
10.2307/30133281|Ten Amazon parrots were diagnosed with cloacal papillomas during a 29-month period. Two of these birds, both Yellow-naped Amazons, died with bile duct carcinomas from five weeks to three and one-half months following the diagnosis and surgical removal of the papilloma.
10.2307/27671040|A false aneurysm and arteriovenous (AV) fistula were diagnosed in an eight-year-old female cockatiel with the aid of ultrasound. Trauma secondary to relieving egg binding may have been the underlying cause. The aneurysm was surgically resected and the bird recovered with no evidence of recurrence or sequela after 14 months.
10.2307/30136969|Two ratites were presented on separate occasions for anorexia and gastrointestinal distress. Both birds had high antibody titers for Toxoplasma gondii. The flock mates were negative for antibodies against T. gondii and appeared clinically normal. Because titers to T. gondii develop in animals only following infection, the high titer in the two affected birds suggests that they had toxoplasmosis. Taxoplasmosis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of ratites with anorexia, diarrhea and dyspnea. Cats should not have access to ratite feed or any areas where ratites are maintained. If ratites are to be considered as a food source, the possibility of T. gondii transmission needs to be investigated further.
10.2307/30143076|A novel virus isolated from the feather follicles of cockatoos diagnosed as having psittacine beak and feather disease was characterized by electron microscopy, nucleic acid content, and polypeptide composition. Purified virions displayed an icosahedral symmetry, were nonenveloped, and negatively stained particles had a mean diameter of 14 to 16 nm. Three major viral associated proteins were identified, with approximate molecular weights of 26.3, 23.7, and 15.9 kilodaltons. The viral nucleic acid was found to be single-stranded DNA based on acridine orange staining, resistance to alkali and ribonuclease, and sensitivity to both DNase1 and S1 nuclease. The DNA was estimated to be between 1.7 and 2.0 kilobases (kb) by agarose gel electrophoresis and this size and its circular conformation were confirmed by electron microscopy. A preliminary infectivity study using purified virus to infect neonatal budgerigars induced pathological lesions characteristic of those observed in the natural disease. Based on the extremely small size of the virions and the single-stranded circular viral DNA, we propose that the etiologic agent of psittacine beak and feather disease represents a previously undescribed viral pathogen. Based on the extremely small size of the virions and the small single-stranded circular viral DNA, we have proposed the name Diminuviridae to the International Committee on the Taxonomy of Viruses (ICTV) for the viral family to which the PBFD agent and similar viruses may belong.
10.2307/30136893|A mature, male Bald Eagle with a traumatic midshaft right tarsometatarsal bone amputation was successfully fitted and maintained with a prosthesis in a zoo environment. An interdisciplinary team consisting of a veterinarian, prosthetist, and physiatrist adapted techniques commonly used in human amputation management. A rigid removable dressing was used in the initial healing and fitting stages. A four part modular prosthesis was designed to incorporate the weight-bearing benefits of a below-knee, flexible socket and the suspension apparatus of a below- elbow prosthesis. With the prosthesis the eagle walked easily and perched well once modifications were made to the foot.
10.2307/30134301|The following questions have been submitted by AAV members for publication of comments through the journal or newsletter. Participating in this issue are Drs. Ken Warthen, Pembroke, Virginia; Scott McDonald, Westchester, Illinois; Karen Rosenthal, New York, New York; Nadine Lamberski, Davis, California. Readers are invited to submit further questions to AAV Education Office, 5770 Lake Worth Road, Lake Worth, FL 33463.
10.2307/30134302|A four-month-old Congo African Grey Parrot and a four-year-old Umbrella Cockatoo with histories of chronic nasal and ocular discharge respectively, were presented to the University of Georgia, College of Veterinary Medicine for evaluation. The choanal slit was absent in the Umbrella Cockatoo. In its place was a flat bonypalatine region with no evidence of choanae. The choanal region appeared grossly normal in the African Grey Parrot. During routine nasal flushing of both birds, it was noted that fluid would not pass from the nasal cavity into the oral cavity. Rhinograms indicated that there was no patent connection between the nasal and oral cavities. Endoscopic evaluation of the palatine region of the African Grey Parrot revealed a membrane covering the choanae. These two anatomically unique cases of choanal atresia are considered previously unreported congenital malformations in psittacine birds.
10.2307/30135077|An eight-year-old Moluccan cockatoo developed a severe stifle luxation after a traumatic event. Due to the severity of the injury, the decision was made to arthrodese the stifle. In order to fuse the stifle in a functional position, multiple K-wires were placed in the lateral aspect of the femur and tibiotarsus, and a type-1 external fixator with a connecting bar composed of an acrylic polymer was used. The bird was weight bearing by day four after surgery, and seven months after surgery the stifle was stable with no detectable movement. A seven-month-old barn owl was examined because of a closed stifle luxation. The stifle luxation was reduced and stabilized by an external fixation method similar to the one used for the cockatoo. External fixation for stifle repair in birds offers the advantages of no permanent implant, use of the limb during convalescence, and early return to function.
10.2307/30133295|Four adjuvants (mineral oil, E-3, Equimune, and Acemannan) were evaluated to determine their effect on the immunogenicity of inactivated polyomavirus and the degree of local or systemic reactions that they induced when injected into a group of mixed species of Psittaciformes. All four adjuvantantigen combinations were found to stimulate the production of anti-poly-omavirus neutralizing antibodies. All of the birds vaccinated with the oiladjuvanted vaccine developed abscesses or open draining lesions at the sites of subcutaneous inoculation. Three of the eight birds vaccinated with the E-3 adjuvanted vaccine died after the second inoculation. The Equimune adjuvanted vaccine induced small ulcerated lesions with subsequent scab formation in one of the three vaccinates. The Acemannan adjuvanted vaccine was associated with the mildest reaction which was limited to hyperemia at the site of initial subcutaneous inoculation in one of the seven vaccinates.
10.2307/30134306|A review of health records on a group of known age macaws provided some insight into their aging process and longevity. The most consistent and potentially debilitating aspect of aging in macaws was cataract formation. In most birds, the onset of cataract formation followed shortly after the decline of reproductive potential. Macaws have few natural predators. The effects of aging may be important in limiting the life span of wild as well as captive macaws.
10.2307/30133280|An imported Orange-winged Amazon was presented for recurring, nonresponsive cloacal prolapse. Laboratory examination and radiographs were nondiagnostic. The bird died suddenly and a histopathologic diagnosis of bile duct carcinoma was made. It is not known if the cloacal prolapse and the hepatic neoplasia were related.
10.2307/27671121|This case study adds to the limited number of reports in the literature of heart disease in avian species. Cardiomegaly and endocardial fibrosis were diagnosed on necropsy in a 10-year-old, male secretary bird (Sagirrarius serpentarius). The bird had been evaluated because of a decline in physical activity, intermittent, open-mouth breathing, serous nasal discharge, and partial anorexia of four days' duration. Heart failure had been diagnosed on the basis of physical examination findings, radiology, and echocardiology. The bird was treated with digoxin, furosemide, and enrofloxacin. The trough serum digoxin concentration was 1.4 ng/ml. The bird had briefly responded to treatment but was euthanatized because of coelomitis and hepatitis. On necropsy, in addition to the cardiomegaly and endocardial fibrosis, mild, diffuse endocardial hyperplasia and severe, multifocal hepatitis with hepatocellular atrophy and fibrosis were seen. An alpha hemolytic Streptococcus sp and Micrococcus sp were cultured from the coelomic cavity.
10.2307/27671120|Proventricular dilatation syndrome is characterized by involvement of central and peripheral nervous tissues with lymphoplasmacytic inflammatory infiltrates. A causative agent has not been found for proventricular dilatation syndrome, although virus-like inclusions have been observed in some affected tissues. Suspicion of proventricular dilatation syndrome is based on history, clinical signs, and radiographic evidence of proventricular enlargement or dysfunction. Definitive diagnosis of proventricular dilatation syndrome requires demonstration of characteristic lymphoplasmacytic infiltrates within nerves, ganglia, and neuropil.
10.2307/30136920|A ten-week-old Blue-fronted Amazon parrot was presented for respiratory distress and weakness. While hospitalized, it began regurgitating. Microscopic examination of the regurgitated material revealed large numbers of Trichomonas spp. and yeasts. Theparrot responded clinically to treatment with metronidazole but died shortly after treatment was discontinued. Necropsy revealed a large caseous mass distal to the thoracic inlet, which invaded andpartially obstructed the esophagus and trachea. Microscopic examination of touch impressions of the mass revealed granulomatous inflammation and large numbers of trichomonads.
10.2307/30136928|Adenovirus should be added to the list of differential diagnoses of liver disease in pigeons when intranuclear inclusion bodies are present. This report describes adenovirus particles in the nuclei of hepatocytes, hepatitis, necrosis and death in pigeons from two premises. Although a cause-and-effect relationship between adenovirus, liver lesions and death of these pigeons is logical, other factors such as excessive administration of medication may have exacerbated virus infection and clinical signs.
10.2307/30135078|The anatomy of the metacarpus of 23 specimens of various species of hawks, owls, vultures and psittacines was compared in order to develop a ventral surgical approach. The anatomy of this region was similar in all species except for slight variations in the course of the ventral interosseous artery between individuals.
10.2307/30134994|The use of evacuation pumps has been found to reduce occupational exposure of operating room personnel to high concentrations of halothane. In this study, the Vapor Vac by Ellman International Manufacturing was found to effectively reduce this risk during avian surgery.
10.2307/30135011|An adult Blue and Gold Macaw was diagnosed as having a facial fibrosarcoma. The tumor was treated by surgical debulking, followed by orthovoltage radiotherapy (44 Greys, divided into 11 separate treatments). After six radiation treatments, the tumor had increased in size and intratumoral cisplatin was added to the treatment regimen. Intratumoral injections of cisplatin, in a repositol matrix, were administered prior to the eighth and eleventh radiation treatments. Antitumor therapy held the tumor in remission for 29 months post-treatment.
10.2307/30136724|Paraffin-embedded cutaneous tissues from 87 psittacine birds with various feather disorders were tested for thepresence of psittacine beak and feather disease (PBFD) virus by routine histopathology, immunoperoxidase staining and DNA dot-blot hybridization. The diagnostic sensitivity in detecting birds with PBFD was 97.7% for the DNA dot-blot assay, 76.4% for immunoperoxidase staining and 72.4% for examination of hematoxylin and eosin-stained histologic sections. The diagnostic specificity in detecting PBFD-free birds was 100% for the DNA dot-blot assay, 100% for immunoperoxidase staining and 93.8% for examination of H&E-stained tissue sections. This study indicates that dot-blot hybridization using viral-specific DNA probes is the preferred method for diagnosis of PBFD, especially if typical viral inclusions are not apparent in histological sections.
10.2307/27670895|Seventeen blood chemistry parameters were measured in macaws, Amazon parrots, cockatoos, African grey parrots and budgerigars using a Kodak Ektachem system. Reference values for the dry chemistry system were established for the five species. Investigation fo the data revealed significant deviations in values obtained from different species. Fewer variations were found between male and female birds of the same speciese.
10.2307/27671123|Mucormycosis has rarely been reported in birds. A four-year-old chattering lory was examined because of progressive neurologic defects culminating in seizures. Results of clinical pathologic testing, including plasma electrophoresis, suggested systemic inflammatory disease. On necropsy, massive numbers of fungal hyphae showing morphologic characteristics consistent with the order Mucorales were seen in the pulmonary parenchyma. Evidence of hyphal invasion of cerebral blood vessels and dissemination of the organism in the cerebrum was also seen. The fungal organisms were identified as Absidia sp. by direct fluorescent antibody testing.
10.2307/30136722|Proventricular dilatation syndrome (PDS) was diagnosed on the basis of clinical findings, contrast radiography and histopathology in an adult Senegal Parrot, Timneh African Grey Parrot and a hybrid macaw (Blue and Gold x Scarlet). Electron microscopy demonstrated intranuclear inclusion bodies within the proventricular wall of the Senegal Parrot.
10.2307/30161768|A case of internal hydrocephalus with dilation of the lateral and fourth ventricles was diagnosed by histopathology in a young African Grey Parrot (Psittacus erithacus timneh). Treatment with calcium supplements and phenobarbital elixir may have initially controlled the seizures for which the bird was presented. Limited hematological studies were not contributory to the diagnosis.
10.2307/27671072|An outbreak of polyomavirus in a collection of mixed psittacine birds resulted in a number of neonatal deaths. In addition, an adult Eclectus Parrot, Painted Conure and three White-bellied Caiques died during the outbreak with clinical histories and pathologic lesions suggestive of polyomavirus. Polyomavirus has rarely been associated with clinical disease in adult psittacine birds. This outbreak suggests that some adult birds amy be susceptible to polyomavirus infection during epornitics. The outbreak was controlled by removing birds from the collection that were found by the use of a DNA probe to be shedding polyomavirus from the cloaca.
10.2307/27670973|Budgerigars were experimentally infected with Mycoplasma gallisepticum (MG) R strain. One group of MG-inoculated birds and the control birds were treated with Respiral, a respiratory inhalant. All birds were assessed for clinical signs of disease throughout the study, and selected birds from each group were euthanatized for histopathologic examination of the trachea and air sacs. Respiral was shown to be efficacious in reducing the severity of clinical disease. Respiral, if used in conjunction with appropriate antibiotic therapy, may be useful in the treatment of MG and other respiratory infections.
