23430394|Sixteen clones of western wheatgrass were studied to determine differences in seedling growth traits. The data from 11 of the clones were correlated with the agronomic performance in a field test to ascertain if seedling growth traits in the laboratory could be used in selecting clones with better field performance under irrigated conditions. Three of the clones were significantly better (P < .05) than the check in germination, plumule growth, radicle growth and total growth. No significant associations of plant breeding value were found between these four seedling traits and six field agronomic performance characters. Although the test with this limited number of clones did not suggest the use of seedling growth traits as an aid in selecting agronomic characters, it indicated the presence of significant differences in the growth from seed of different clones. It appears that further studies of these differences as to their relationships with range emergence and establishment should be conducted.
23430399|Effects of B-nine (N, N-dimethylaminosuccinamic acid) and Phosfon D (Tributyl-2, 4-dichlorobenzyl-phosphonium chloride) on weed seed germination were studied. These growth retardants were applied at 1, 10 and 100 ppm concentrations on seeds kept in petri dish germinators. B-nine applied at 1 ppm concentrations decreased germination of cocklebur and pigweed seeds and at 100 ppm, decreased germination of pigweed and wild mustard seeds. Other concentrations of the growth retardants did not exhibit significant differences compared to the control. Phosfon D decreased germination of cocklebur and pigweed seeds at all concentrations applied. The time required for germination was increased about a week in cocklebur seeds when treated with 1 ppm B-nine and in pigweed seeds when treated with 1 and 10 ppm of B-nine.
23432936|A dot-immunobinding assay (DIA) was evaluated for detecting Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae, P. s. pv. atrofaciens, Clavibacter tritici, and Xanthomonas campestris pv. translucens in wheat seeds. Cross-reactions between antigens and antisera of P. s. pv. syringae and P. s. pv. atrofaciens negated the use of DIA in distinguishing these incitants. X. c. pv. translucens provided positive readings only when cell concentrations were 105 colony forming units (CFU/ml) or higher. tritici cells were also detectable at 105 CFU/ml. The DIA was most valuable in identifying X. c. pv. translucens colonies after the seed leachate was plated on semi-selective media. The assay was not reliable for detecting low cell numbers directly from seed. Cell concentrations of X. c. pv. translucens declined only about 10-fold in wheat seeds after three years of storage.
23432686|Chemical clarification of composition of the bracteole restraint on Atriplex gardneri (Moq) Dietr. seed germination, and development of a pre-treatment to enhance germination were the objectives of this study. Following acid hydrolysis of bracteole cell walls, analyses revealed 17% lignin, 33% glucose, 29% xylose, 7% arabinose, 1% galactose and less than 1% mannose. Delignified and lignified cell walls were incubated with cellulase supplemented with B-D-glucosidase, crude-hemicellulase and polygalacturonase separately and in combination. Sequential treatment of lignified cell walls by cellulase followed by polygalacturonase induced 14% degradation. All other treatments produced less than 10% degradation. Dramatic improvement in enzymatic degradation was noted after delignification of the walls. Cellulase hydrolyzed 35%, hemicellulase 25%, and polygalacturonase 36% of delignified walls. Intact seeds delignified at 70C in acidic sodium chlorite, however, failed to germinate. Germination percentages of intact seeds exposed to delignified or delignified/enzyme pre-treatment at 35C were less than other common germination pre-treatment. Standardization of concentration, time, and temperature of incubation solutions, however, should improve seed germination responses.
23432825|Three mathematical formulas are used to determine whether a three-component turfgrass seed mixture is within the tolerances set forth in the "Tolerance Section" of the Rules for Testing Seeds. The calculations are not affected by changes in other crop seed, weed seed, or inert matter percentages. This procedure is accurate and is easily programmed on microcomputers or programmable calculators.
23432715|Cuphea is a potential source of medium-chain triglycerides for manufacture of soaps, pharmaceuticals, and nutritional products. Indeterminate flowering and seed shattering are wild-type characteristics that cause difficulty in determining the proper time to harvest for maximum yields of seed and oil. This study was undertaken to determine when seeds reach maturity in two Cuphea species with potential for domestication. Seed maturity is defined as that stage of development when maximum dry weight and oil content are first attained. Seed development of C. lutea Rose and C. wrightii Gray was studied from flowering to maturity in two greenhouse and one field experiment by harvesting seeds from tagged flowers at frequent intervals and mearsuring dry weight, oil, and moisture content. Maximum seed dry weight was attained by 19 d after anthesis in the 1986 greenhouse studies. At this time, dry weight was 2.62 mg seed, moisture content was 420 g H2O kg-1 fw (42%), and oil content was 240 g oil kg-1dw (24%) in C. lutea. Measurements for C. wrightii were 1.89 mg seed-1 dw, 320 g H2O kg-1 fw (32%) moisture, and 310 g oil kg-1 (31%) oil content. Simple correlation coefficients for oil and dry weight were 0.97 and 0.96 for C. wrightii and C. lutea, respectively. Similar relationships between seed quality components were evident in the 1985 greenhouse and field experiments. Seeds of C. lutea were mature at the time of emergence from the calyx tube in the field. Waiting beyond this time for green seeds to turn yellow or brown before harvesting will not increase seed dry matter or oil content, and would lead to increased shattering and seed loss.
23433002|This paper tells about the widespread publicity, following archaeological excavations, given to "mummy" grain and its viability, identification of ancient grain as to species, findings of wild species, species grown in ancient times and conclusive evidence that mummy grain is nonviable. A brief reference is made to the longevity of the lotus seeds from Pulantien and to herbarium and buried seeds, and to present knowledge of seed viability under controlled conditions, to imbibition, dormancy and hard-seed effects on longevity and a glimpse into Alladin's lamp of seed immortality.
23432747|A computerized automated seed analysis system (CASAS) has been developed which enables an analyst to estimate physiological parameters of seed and compare the values obtained with standards for seed of known quality. The system classifies the sample as commercially acceptable or substandard, based upon equivalence to a standard germination test. The system is designed upon the S-100 bus. System design, hardware, software, and applications are discussed.
23432833|The Tolerance Tables for Noxious Weed Seeds have several deficiencies: they lack a clear statement of objective; they are based unnecessarily on an inaccurate approximation; and they allow for subjectivity as to when and how to retest a seed lot. This subjectivity greatly affects the probability that a seed lot will be declared out of tolerance. These deficiencies are discussed and graphs based on theoretical calculations are presented which describe estimated probabilities that a lot will be declared out of tolerance under several circumstances in which a seed lot is labeled correctly, or at least labeled in good faith.
23432799|Two field experiments were conducted at the University of Illinois Agronomy and Plant Pathology South Farm to determine the effects of defoliating corn (Zea mays L.) inbreds on seed quality as determined by warm germination and cold germination tests. In the first experiment, defoliation treatments of 0, 50, and 100% were applied by hand to inbred lines FRMo17rhm and FR27rhm at the 7-leaf, 14-leaf, anthesis, late milk, and soft dough stages in 1982 and the 7-leaf, 14-leaf, anthesis, milk, and dent stages in 1983. In the second experiment, defoliation treatments of 0, 50, and 100% were applied to six inbreds (Fr27rhm, FRMo17rhm, FR632, MS71, FR25, and FR16) at the 14-leaf stage. The effect on seed quality was influenced by the level of defoliation, growth stage when the defoliation treatments were applied, genotype, and environmental conditions. Partial defoliation never affected warm germination and in only a few cases affected cold germination. Reductions in germination scores in response to complete defoliation were associated with reductions in kernel size. The inbred most sensitive to defoliation, FRMo17rhm, was also the inbred which produced the fewest total leaves.
23432786|Crepe cellulose paper utilized as a germination substrate has traditionally been manufactured from virgin wood fibers. This study was initiated to compare Kimpak (K-22) (manufactured with virgin fibers) with Bleached Custom Wrap (BCW) (manufactured with recycled fibers) as germination substrates for corn and soybean seed. Standard, sand, and cold germination tests all incorporated crepe cellulose paper as a substrate. Standard germination tests on corn initially showed BCW to produce a result 2% lower than K-22 did; however, an additional experiment of 10 seed lots found no significant differences. Sand and cold test normal seedling percentages were not significantly different between substrates. Soybean standard, sand, and cold test germination responses were not significantly different across any parameter regardless of substrate. Physical comparisons of substrates showed no significant difference between K-22 and BCW water-holding capacities. According to the data from seed lots tested in these studies, it seems that when used as a substrate for corn and soybean germination tests, BCW provides germination responses similar to those of K-22.
23430397|Germination of Indian ricegrass [Oryzopsis hymenoides (Roem. & Schult.) Ricker] seeds was enhanced by scarification with concentrated sulfuric acid for 35 min. Additions of 100 M GA3 and 40% maneb further increased scarified seed germination by reducing post-harvest dormancy and controlling contamination from storage fungi. Seeds treated in this manner germinated at 86% after only 7 days at 30 C compared to 6% germination following 49 days at 15 C as recommended by the AOSA Rules for Testing Seeds. These techniques appear viable alternatives to methods currently employed for the germination and testing of Indian ricegrass seeds.
23432770|Storage in liquid nitrogen (LN2) has the potential of providing "indefinite" preservation of seed germplasm. Determining the tolerance of seeds of a given species and/or cultivar to LN2 cooling and subsequent rewarming is the first step in establishing the feasibility of LN2 storage. Seeds of 29 crops were directly exposed to LN2 (-196 C) for periods up to 180 days. Of all species exposed, only sesame (Sesamum indicum L.) and flax (Linum usitatissimum L.), indicated any loss of viability after LN2 storage. Damage to sesame seeds was reflected by increased seedling abnormalities (stubby roots), which appeared to be associated with the cooling/rewarming cycle. Flax seeds were physically damaged (cracking of the seed coat and embryonic tissue) resulting in reduced germination. Survival of the selections during LN2 cooling and rewarming and a lack of damage to seed viability during extended storage strongly supports the feasibility of LN2 preservation of many species.
23432978|Seeds of 33 forest species belonging to 28 genera in 12 families of tropical trees were studied for health. The blotter, agar, and sand medium methods were used. The common genera of fungi found associated with the seeds were: Fusarium, Colletotrichum, Botryodiplodia, Cladosporium, Phoma, Phomopsis, Macrophoma, Cephalosporium, Aspergillus, Penicillium, Curvularia and Chaetomium. Details about their distribution and description are discussed in the text of this paper.
23432820|Three forb and eight shrub species native to the Rocky Mountain and Northern Great Plains regions were evaluated for seed viability with 2, 3, 5-triphenyl-2H-tetrazolium chloride (TZ). Specific staining techniques were developed for each species. Treatments include presoaks, seed coat puncture, seed coat removal, and seed bisection. Species tested and their viability values were Achillea millefolium L., (yarrow) 86%; Linum lewisii (pursh), (Lewis flax) 93%; Ratibida columnifera (Nutt.) Wooten and Standley, (prairie coneflower) 72%; Amelanchier alnifolia (Nutt.) Nutt., (serviceberry) 84%; Amorpha fruticosa L., (indigobush) 94%; Artemisia tridentata Nutt., (big sagebrush) 66%; Ceretoides lanata (Pursh) Howell, (winterfat) 91%; Prunus virginiana L., (chokecherry) 98%; Purshia tridentata (Pursh) DC., (antelope bitterbrush) 100%; Rhus trilobata Nutt., (skunkbush sumac) 91%; and Symphoricarpos albus (L.) Blake, (snowberry) 68%.
23432957|Seeds of 27 cantaloupe cultivars were stored 23 years at 10, 21, and 32 C. At 32 C seed of only three cultivars showed any signs of life. Seeds of only two and three cultivars gave 0% germination after storage at 10 and 21 C, respectively. At 21 C seeds of two cultivars germinated over 50% in 10 days. Seeds of numerous cultivars showed dormancy and germinated later. At 10 C seeds of four cultivars germinated better than 75%. Differences in seed longevity among cultivars were variable.
23432989|Seventy-three seed samples of 23 soybean (Glycine max [L.] Merr.) cultivars produced in Florida in 1986 were analyzed for germination, vigor [tetrazolium (TZ) test], and presence of seedborne pathogens. Thirty percent of the samples contained from 5 to 20% (high) infection by Colletotrichum truncatum (Schw.) Andrus & Moore. Infection was mainly restricted to the seed coat, but 50% of the seed lots with high levels of infection had embryo infection from 1 to 10%. Although C. truncatum infected fewer seeds than Phomopsis spp., it caused more damping-off, regardless of seed vigor level. As the pathogen incidence increased, the amount of damping-off also increased. These detrimental effects were observed on the standard germination test (rolled paper towels) which also was severely affected by high levels of Phomopsis spp. The TZ test values were not affected by the presence of these fungi, thus giving the highest percent germination. Sand emergence provided estimates of germination for seed lots with high incidence of infection by C. truncatum that more nearly simulated what would be expected in the field under ideal conditions. Seventeen percent of the samples contained high levels (7 to 33%) of infection by Cercospora kikuchii (Matsu. & Tomoyasu). This pathogen was almost exclusively restricted to the seedcoat. An antagonistic effect was observed between C. kikuchii and Phomopsis spp. infecting soybean seeds: the higher the level of seed infection by C. kikuchii, the lower the seed infection by Phomopsis spp. No detrimental pathogen effects of seed infection of this pathogen were observed on germination, emergence, and vigor of soybean seed with the natural levels of C. kikuchii infected seeds used in this study.
23432773|Sorghum, sudangrass, and sorghum-sudangrass cultivars were grown in the laboratory in sand culture under high light intensity. Cultivar related differences in coleoptile and shoot pigmentation were observed in seedlings denied nutrient applications. Seven cultivar specific seedling pigmentation patterns were recorded. Results indicate that identification of seedling pigmentation patterns is a valuable approach for differentiating sorghum cultivars. Inconsistent variations in seedling pigmentation patterns were detected when nutrients were applied to the seedlings.
23432774|The ASA-610 is a commercial instrument which reportedly has the capability to rapidly monitor soybean quality. To evaluate this capability, soybean seeds were subjected to increasing levels of mechanical impaction (1, 4, and 8 drops from 3 m) and accelerated aging (41 C,  100 % RH) for varying periods of time (1, 2, 3, 4 days). In both instances, as soybean seed deterioration increased, the ASA-610 detected changes in seed viability as measured by percent germination, seedling dry weight, and hypocotyl length. These results suggest that the ASA-610 can accurately assess soybean seed quality and may be useful in commercial seed testing programs.
23432991|Seed size separations have been traditionally used to increase seedling vigor. Examination of naked caryopses of a combination of size and density separations revealed that seed mass could be used to describe the physical dimensions of the caryopsis and embryo of 'Critana' thickspike wheatgrass (Agropyron daystachyum (hook.) Schribn.). No differences were found between hydration curves for small-light (S-L) and large-heavy (L-H) seed separations for whole seeds, naked caryopses, endosperm and embryos. Greater respiration rates were found for L-H seeds than S-L seeds on a seed basis for whole seeds, naked caryopses and embryos.
23432639|The seed coat serves as a protective covering for the embryo. Germination of soybeans (Glycine max (L.) Merr.) can be greatly affected by condition of the seed coat and cotyledons. In this study, laboratory germination of Forrest soybeans, a cultivar with small seeds, was reduced to about 40% of that of visibly undamaged seeds when the seed coat was cracked or shattered even though the cotyledons were intact. Field germination was reduced to about 15% of that for visibly undamaged seeds. Transverse breaks across the cotyledons caused similar decreases in laboratory germination. When breaks were completely through the cotyledons, laboratory germination was reduced and limited to those pieces with an embryonic axis intact. This study supports previous work indicating that criteria for pure seed of soybeans should be revised.
23432973|Fall seedings of meadowfoam (Limnathes alba Benth.) in Oregon are usually delayed until early to mid-October because of the possibility of inducing secondary dormancy from earlier planting in warm soils. This experiment was conducted under laboratory conditions to determine if secondary dormancy is induced by warm temperatures or other environmental conditions that are unfavorable to meadowfoam seed germination. Imbibed seeds of dormant and non-dormant lots of 'Mermaid' meadowfoam were subjected to high temperature, light and reduced oxygen treatments for 0, 3, 6, 9, 12 and 15 days. Following treatment, the seeds were removed to optimum germination conditions to assess the degree of dormancy induced by the three environmental factors. Exposure of imbibed seeds to 25C induced secondary dormancy in both lots after 3 days' exposure. Germination of the non-dormant lot decreased from over 90% to less than 30% after 15 days of warm temperature. Exposure to continuous light was effective in inducing dormancy after 6 days of treatment. Imbibition in an atmosphere of 2% oxygen decreased germination after 9 days' treatment. Reduction in germination by light and reduced oxygen was only moderate, but a greater degree of dormancy would be expected with longer exposure. These experiments confirmed that exposure of meadowfoam seeds to factors that inhibit germination will induce secondary dormancy after a minimum exposure period. In the field, induction of dormancy and reduced seedling emergence would be expected if soils are warm or poorly aerated. While light would be a factor in field establishment only if surface-seeded, it should be avoided in laboratory germination tests to obtain maximum germination.
23432648|QSeed (Quality Seed) is a set of BASIC language programs designed to keep records on seed production, conditioning, testing, inventory control and sales. These records are then accessed for management and quality assurance operations. Crops and varieties being produced are defined, as well as addresses of growers and buyers. One program keeps records on production fields, inspections, yields and related items. At harvest QSeed maintains records on each bulk storage bin, the removal of seed from the bin, conditioning information including the assignment of lot numbers, and the location of lots in bagged storage. QSeed follows the flow of the seed and develops an inventory, seed testing and quality assurance file for each lot. If more than one seed analysis has been made, the results of all seed testing information can be displayed in the form of a histogram. When a sale is made QSeed first displays lot records on the screen and then allows selection of a specific lot. When the selection is made, an invoice is printed, along with a load-out ticket and the adjustment of the bagged seed inventory. QSeed runs on many brands of microcomputers using the PC/MS DOS operating system.
23432682|A systems approach is described for developing and implementing training programs. The approach directs attention to the training needs of the laboratory and the individual. The system ensures that the design and implementation phases in the program are flexible, and adjust to experience through feedback mechanisms. This approach is being used by Agriculture Canada to redesign training programs for its analysts.
23432737|Although seeds are considered to be small entities in man's perception of his surrounding environment, they are themselves a planet in which a microbial world exists. This microcosm is exemplified by the soybean seed and its associated microbes. The understanding of the relationships involved now has been realized as is its impact on seed quality and performance.
23432658|Chemical treatment of navy bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) seed exposed to prolonged wet, humid weather prior to harvest improved germination more in cold and warm soil tests than in standard warm germination tests at all levels of quality between 56 and 97% germination. However, performance in all tests was improved by seed treatment, especially at lower quality levels. There was no consistent increase in performance after six weeks of storage under warm laboratory conditions. Both laboratory germination and field emergence were improved by most combinations and concentrations of seed treatment chemicals.
23432832|Corsoy 79 soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merr.) seeds were artificially aged by either a high-moisture, high-temperature (>90% RH, 42C) method or by a constant 12% moisture, high-temperature (42C method. Seeds were imbibed for up to 34 h, and ethanol evolution measured until radicle protrusion occurred. Ethanol evolution rates were greater for seeds with poorer viability and vigor, and the ethanol evolution peak rose with increased water uptake and aging. Seed moisture at peak ethanol evolution also varied with aging treatments. Peak ethanol levels did not occur immediately before radicle protrusion. Delay in the attainment of membrane integrity, which resulted in lost viability and vigor and an imbalance between glycolysis and the citric acid cycle, may explain observed patterns of ethanol evolution. It may be possible to use ethanol measurements as a rapid assessment of seed vigor.
23432963|Tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreb.) long has had a reputation as a poor-quality forage because of an assortment of toxicological problems experienced by animals grazing this species. Summer syndrome toxicity is associated with a seed-transmitted endophytic fungus (Epichloe typhina (Fr.) Tul., Acremonium coenophialum Morgan-Jones and W. Gams) which, in turn, is associated with pyrrolizidine alkaloid accumulation, especially N-formyl and N-acetyl loline. The objectives of this study were 1) to assay the major seed-producing areas and varieties in the U. S. for loline alkaloids and 2) to investigate the effect of age of seed at planting on loline alkaloid levels of seed harvested from these stands. Seed lots of the Kentucky varieties 'Kentucky 31' and 'Kenwell' contained much higher levels of loline alkaloids than the Oregon varieties 'Alta' and 'Fawn.' Certified 'Kenhy' seed produced from stands sown with recently harvested foundation seed high in loline alkaloid content tended to have much higher levels than seed produced by stands sown with seed stored 2 years or more. Differences between varieties and seed production areas are more likely due to cultural practices, length of seed storage, or historical factors than to strict genetic or location effects. The lower loline alkaloid levels resulting from establishment with 2-year-old seed is attributed to impersistence of the endophyte. Results suggest that other unknown factor(s) may contribute to a total loss of loline alkaloid accumulation capacity in seed only 3 months old.
23432693|Although the accelerated aging (AA) test has been widely used as an indicator of seed vigor, lack of standardization has resulted in variation in results. Experiments were conducted to evaluate the influence of the aging chamber and several testing variables on soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] seed germination following accelerated aging when using theinner chamber (tray) procedure. The basic aging procedure involved placing 40 g of seeds on a wire mesh tray suspended over 50 ml of water in the inner chamber (plastic sample box with lid). The inner chambers were placed on trays in an outer aging chamber for 72 h at 41C ( 0.5C) after which the seeds were planted for standard germination. Aging time, temperature and seed moisture interacted during aging to reduce seed germination. Temperature had the greatest effect on germination and 41C was a threshold of sensitivity for soybean seed. An aging time of 72 h at 41C provided excellent separation in vigor across seed lots; however, little deterioration occurred after 48 h and excessive deterioration occurred after 96 h. Relative humidity in the inner chamber reached 90% after 24 h and gradually increased to 95% by 72 h. Final seed moisture after aging ranged from 31-34% and was one of the most repeatable aspects of the test. Initial seed moisture levels ranging from 8.0 to 13.5% had little effect on final seed moisture; however, both initial and final seed moisture should be monitored during aging. Seed size influenced final seed moisture following aging, but could be controlled by determining sample size on the basis of seed weight (40 g) rather than seed number (200 seeds). Air temperature inside the inner chamber was influenced by opening the outer chamber door, the number of inner chambers per shelf and the location of shelves within the chamber. The effects of these factors were eliminated, however, by limiting the number of inner chambers to nine per shelf, placing shelves in the upper portions of the aging chamber and keeping the outer chamber door closed during the test. These results support the inner chamber (tray) accelerated aging system and identify methods for controlling several testing variables which improve the standardization of this test.
23432915|A need exists for learning the principles of seed testing and their application toward determining quality of seed. I believe there should be three courses offered at the college level. The first should deal chiefly with the identification and germination of agricultural and weed seeds as well as the basic mechanics of making purity and germination tests. Students in the second course should learn to identify the domestic grasses in the 14 tribes and the noxious weeds in the grass family and in 12 additional plant families. More technical aspects should be covered. The third course should emphasize identification of species and varieties of various chaffy grasses as well as certain species of Brassica. These three courses need to be integrated to give students an appreciation of seed quality as well as knowledge of the AOSA Rules and mechanics of seed technology.
23432733|A ratio analysis is used to determine whether a two component mixture of turfgrass is within tolerance. The procedure is not affected by changes in other crop seed, weed seed, or inert matter percentages; but it does take into consideration whether these values are within tolerance. The "Tolerance Section" of the Rules for Testing Seeds is followed; and the procedure is efficient, simple, highly accurate and adaptable to programmable calculator usage.
23432976|Seed-Lab, a software system developed at the Oregon State University Seed Testing Laboratory for managing seed laboratory information, is described. Seed-Lab shields the user from the complexities of database management by supporting menu driven inquiries. Specifically, Seed-Lab allows inquiries about customers, accounts, invoices, plant species, types of tests, seed samples, and test results. Furthermore, Seed-Lab supports several domestic and international regulations governing the computing and reporting of seed testing results. This system runs either on a single microcomputer or on a local area network of microcomputers and is portable to any other network capable of running the Novell NetWare operating system.
23432741|An increased understanding of the disease cycle of seed-borne plant pathogens can lead to more effective and efficient disease control schemes through improvement and integration of seed disease control practices.
23432694|The bulk conductivity test has shown potential as a quick, nonsubjective test of seed vigor and has been suggested for use in a wide range of crop species. This research was conducted to evaluate the seed and test variables which may influence the bulk conductivity test when measuring soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] seed vigor. Several experiments were conducted using seed lots which had a wide range in seed vigor but acceptable standard germination. Low initial seed moisture (<11%) significantly increased conductivity, however, there was little difference when seed moisture ranged from 11 to 18%. Water temperature must be maintained at 25C following the 24 h soak period, since a 5C change prior to evaluation significantly influenced conductivity results. Visual identification of mechanically injured and diseased seeds prior to testing was found to be subjective and inaccurate. Thus, the seeds used for the conductivity test should be randomly selected from the pure seed portion of the seed lot. Increasing the number of seeds tested from 25 to 50 seeds per replication reduced the coefficients of variation for the test from 19.0 to 9.8% when averaged over 20 seed lots. There was no increase in conductivity for intact seed infected with high levels of Phomopsis sp. or Cercospora kikuchii, however, moderately or severely fissured (diseased) seed showed high rates of electrolyte leakage. Fungicide seed treatment with Captan-80, Arasan-50 and Vitavax 200 had little effect on conductivity results, however, precautions must be taken when other fungicides or seed treatments are used. A bulk conductivity procedure is recommended which reduces the variability caused by testing variables and should assist in standardizing the vigor test across routine seed testing laboratories.
23432979|This study examined the fate of the pit on the abaxial surface of the cotyledon and that of the antipit on the inside surface of the seed coat. Samples of cotyledon and seed coat tissue from germinating and developing seedlings of soybean (Glycine max L. Merr.) were separated for scanning electron microscopy following initial fixation in glutaraldehyde. Holes which surrounded the antipit in seed coats of mature seeds were not observed after 1 day of imbibition. It is possible that these holes around the antipit collapsed and closed through the force generated by the expansion of the seed coat during imbibition. By 3 days of germination, the pit on the cotyledon surface changed from a concave to convex structure. Holes that appeared on the surface of the cotyledon separate from the pit area were formed by gaps between specialized cells. Later in seedling development, the specialized cells took on the appearance of guard cells and the holes stomates. No stomates occurred on the surface of the pit. It was concluded that the above structures may have some short term function in germination and/or seedling development.
23432813|Cool soil temperatures at planting slow chile (Capsicum annuum L.) seed germination and reduce stand establishment. Seed priming is a method used to increase the percent and rate of germination. This study was initiated to examine the effects of NaCl priming on total germination and the rate of germination under suboptimal temperature conditions. Seeds of 'Tam Veracruz' chile were primed at 23C for 5 days in double-distilled H2O, or 0.2, 0.4, or 0.6 M NaCl solution (equivalent to an osmotic potential of -0.89 MPa, -1.77 MPa, and -2.66 MPa, respectively). After priming, the seeds were dried on paper towels at 23C for 2 days. Treated seeds and nonprimed seeds (control) were then germinated in H2O in Petri dishes in a 15C or 23C incubator. Germination was recorded daily until no more seeds germinated for four days. The final germination percentage (FGP) and the germination velocity coefficient (GVC) were calculated to evaluate the treatments. Over 70% of the H2O-soaked seeds germinated during priming, and thus, were not used in the germination study. Priming had little effect on the FGP at either 15C or 23C, as all treatments (including the control) had germination percentages above 96%. The GVC of primed seed was greater than the unprimed control. This response was more pronounced at 23C than at 15C. Further, the GVC decreased as the NaCl concentration increased from 0.2 M to 0.6 M. These data would suggest that priming 'Tam Veracruz' chile seed for 5 days at 23C in 0.2 M NaCl would increase the germination rate at temperatures from 15C to 23C.
23432769|Birdsfoot trefoil has poorer seedling vigor than most pasture legumes. Lack of seedling vigor is often responsible for stand failure. Methods are needed which permit rapid screening of large populations in breeding programs for seedling vigor. We compared seedling length on a given day with speed of elongation (SE) as a criterion for estimating seedling vigor. Correlations of these two criteria were made with growth in the greenhouse to 6 weeks of age, with yield in the year of seeding, and with field vigor ratings. Seedling length on a given day was highly correlated with SE, but seedling length on day 3 accounted for more variability (highest R2 values) than other seedling length measurements when used with other vigor criteria in multiple regression analysis to predict field forage yields. Methods for measuring length on day 3 and for mass selection for seedling vigor are discussed. These techniques provide a simple rapid method for selecting vigor.
23432771|When coffee seeds are in an environment which does not contain microorganisms the endocarp inhibits germination. This inhibition is neither due to impermeability to water and gases nor to the presence of growth inhibitors but is probably caused by mechanical resistance.
23432673|Seed vigor testing has emerged as a routine method to test seeds for field performance capability. This development can be traced to deficiencies in the philosophy of the purpose of a standard germination test. Early terms included "driving force" and "germination energy" of seedlings to capture the concept of seed vigor. Yet, no organized approach to defining seed vigor or developing seed vigor tests was given until the International Seed Testing Association (ISTA) formed the first Biochemical and Seedling Vigor Committee in 1950. The Association of Official Seed Analysts (AOSA) established a Vigor Test Committee in 1961. Both committees provided the central leadership in vigor testing that culminated in the production of respective Handbooks. This review of the history of seed vigor testing focuses primarily on those events which occurred within AOSA since the inception of that first Committee in 1961 and documents the impetus and momentum that led to vigor testing as an accepted measure of seed quality.
23432766|Cooperative research was conducted between the University of Georgia, Coastal Plain Experiment Station and the Georgia Department of Agriculture, Seed Laboratory in Tifton to study the occurrence and frequency of twin and triplet peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.) seedlings. Twin and triplet peanut seedlings were easily observed following standard germination tests, however the occurrence of each was very low. For twins, estimated frequency was <0.01% and for triplets <0.001%. Progenies from individual twin and triplet plants did not exhibit any inherited polyembryony characteristics. Based on these findings, the potential to readily identify twin-derived haploids would not appear promising for a peanut breeding program.
23432680|Seed pathology, the area of plant pathology that deals with seedborne pathogenic microorganisms and viruses and the diseases that they cause, is one of the oldest areas of the parent science. However, it is only recently that its importance in agriculture has been fully appreciated. In this paper, several seedborne pathogens that cause important diseases of major horticultural crops with detection and control are discussed.
23432687|Sugarbeet (Beta vulgaris L.) seeds soaked in 50 times their weight of water for  to 8 days and air dried had faster rates of germination than washed or control seeds in laboratory tests at 38C. Water temperatures of 15 or 25C were superior to temperatures of 5 and 35C during soaking treatment. The beneficial effects of soaking were retained in storage for at least 60 days after treatment. Soaking or washing treatments resulted in higher germination than control seeds at all concentrations of salt tested. Seeds soaked in fusicoccin germinated at a faster rate than seeds soaked in water. Under high temperature conditions in the field, soaking treatments increased the rate of emergence, but not total emergence.
23432672|Numerous crops are maintained as clones in field, greenhouse or in vitro plant culture. Long-term germplasm conservation for these species is needed and may be accomplished by cryogenic preservation of seeds, pollen, and shoot tips or buds. Seed and pollen can be used to preserve genetic diversity of the crop. These two propagules from many clonal species are desiccation tolerant and survive low temperature exposure. Thus, methods already exist to apply long-term storage to certain crops. Cryopreservation of shoot tips or buds is needed for long-term conservation of the clone. Substantial progress has occurred in defining two-step cooling and vitrification protocols, such that application to certain plant collections is now possible and feasible. For example, long-term storage of apple has been initiated at the National Seed Storage Laboratory using dormant vegetative buds collected in winter from the National Clonal Germplasm Repository at Geneva, NY. Survival after cryogenic exposure was found in all lines tested to date, with cold-hardy lines exhibiting a greater percentage of viability. Cold-tender lines will require a more complex protocol. Vitrification (application of cryoprotectants followed by rapid cooling such that a glass forms within the cells) is an easier method to apply than two-step cooling. Survival was found with apices from many species. A practical project using vitrification to preserve mint is underway. Survival for some species, using either vitrification or two-step cooling methods, still appears genotype-specific. Will a single method be applicable to all genotypes within a collection? A strategy to deal with diversity is needed to minimize the effort required to achieve practical cryopreservation.
23432906|Two alternative accelerated aging vigor test methods for soybeans were evaluated, namely the large chamber method and the sealed jar method. With the large chamber method, a significant variation in the final seed moisture content, fungal growth, and percent of high vigor seedlings occurred among samples from the same seed lot, depending on their location in the accelerated aging chamber. This variation among samples did not occur when the accelerated aging test was conducted by the sealed jar method. However, seeds with higher initial moisture contents deteriorated more rapidly than seeds with lower moisture content. Placing multi-samples in one jar in order to save accelerated aging chamber space, resulted in a variation among samples. The height of the seed sample above the water affected the test results; the higher the sample the higher the percent of high vigor seedlings. The use of a square plastic germination box instead of a jar could save accelerated aging chamber space. The optimum amount of water for the plastic box was determined to be 40 ml.
23432739|The methods and procedures for routine testing for seed-borne-bacterial plant pathogens are still in the developmental stage. This is due to the slow development of research into bacterial plant pathology in general. However, several methods have been developed to handle various critical seed-borne bacterial disease situations. Efforts are now being made both in the United States and in the ISTA Plant Disease Committee to correct this situation.
23432822|Water oak acorns were collected at 5 different dates spanning their maturation period. At each sampling date fresh weight, moisture content, diameter, length, dry weight, germination capacity, chlorophyll and carotenoid content were determined. A spectrophotometric scan of 90% acetone extract of Quercus nigra L. pericarp showed absorption peaks at wavelengths 665 and 432 nm. Total chlorophyll concentration decreased while carotenoid concentration remained constant toward maturity. For each sampling time during maturation, chlorophyll a concentration did not vary significantly from chlorophyll b. The mean ratio of a to b was constant throughout the maturation period. Dry weight, germinability, acorn diameter and length all increased while fresh weight, percent moisture content and absolute moisture content increased initially and then declined toward maturity. These changes correlated very well with chlorophyll changes.
23432932|Changes in lipid fatty acids associated with the breaking of dormancy by phytochrome in Amaranthus albus L. seeds were investigated. Changes in polar lipids occurred within 4 hours after dormancy was overcome by a stimulatory red irradiation. In irradiated seeds, the percentage of unsaturation in polar lipid increased as shown by enhanced linoleic acid content. In seeds maintained in dormancy, the polar lipid fatty acid composition also changed but opposite to that observed in irradiated seeds. The results suggest the involvement of membrane lipids in the transition from a dormant to a non-dormant state in seeds.
23432834|Columbia needlegrass (Stipa columbiana Macoun.) is an important native grass on western rangelands that would be a valuable species for use in revegetation treatments. The objective of this study was to further understand the germination requirements to help ensure the establishment of this species from seedlings. The germination of seven collections or accessions was investigated at 55 constant and alternating temperatures. For dormant collections, prechilling, potassium nitrate (KNO3) and gibberellin (GA3) enrichment of the substrate were used to enhance germination. For some of the seed sources evaluated, appreciable germination occurred over a wide range of temperatures without prior treatment to enhance germination. Germination of these seed sources was greatly reduced at low incubation temperatures. The temperature regimes that most frequently supported optimum germination (optimum defined as not lower than the maximum observed and its confidence limit at the 0.01 level of probability) were 15/25C (15C for 16 h and 25C for 8 h in each 24 h period), 15/35C, and 20/35C. Dormant seeds of Columbia needlegrass had germination enhanced by GA3 enrichment from 0.289 through 0.867 mmol L-1, and KNO3 from 0.001 through 0.1 mol L-1.
23432905|The continuing introduction of new cultivars of Kentucky bluegrass in the seed market has required new studies to identify seeds of these cultivars through dimensional and topographical characteristics. Length and width measurements, seed characteristics, and drawings are used to describe 21 cultivars in addition to those described in earlier work by Wiseman (3) and Niemyski and Grzelak.
23432730|Unusually high amounts of Penicillium spp. contamination of grass seed germination tests occurred in the Iowa State University seed germination laboratory in the winter of 1978-79. The contamination was particularly severe on blotters moistened with potassium nitrate, resulting in reduced germination of Poa pratensis L. seeds. The building air supply proved to be the major source of Penicillium inoculum, contaminating blotters at the time of test preparation. Seeds, potassium nitrate solutions and blotters did not carry significant amounts of inoculum. Severe contamination also occurred when paper towels moistened with KNO3 were used as substrata, but no contamination occurred when KNO3 moistened Kimpak tissues were used.
23432669|Determination of the optimum moisture content for seed storage is difficult because deterioration is very slow at conditions close to the optimum. We have used thermodynamic principles to relate water phase behavior with different mechanisms of seed deterioration. We conclude that the optimum moisture level for storage represents a compromise between slowing aging reactions and preventing lethal ice formation by drying, and retaining the structural integrity of cellular constituents by supplying sufficient structural water. For desiccation sensitive tissues, there may not be a moisture content and temperature combination at which aging reactions are sufficiently slowed, and lethal freezing injury and desiccation damage are prevented. In this case, storage protocols require vitrification, a process by which the thermodynamically stable state is avoided by cooling very rapidly. The thermodynamic principles invoked in this paper may indicate the optimum conditions for seed storage, but they are not sufficient to describe the rate of aging under these or other conditions.
23430403|Seed coatings on carrot (Daucus carota L.), lettuce (Lactuca sativa L.), and onion (Allium cepa L.) from four commercial sources were found to vary widely in their hydrophobic or hydrophylic properties. Too much or too little moisture in the planting medium inhibited radicle emergence of coated seed in standard tests for some samples. By carefully controlling substrate moisture, coated seed can be tested satisfactorily without removing the coating material.
23432940|A brief overview of topics relating to peanut seed production and testing based on selected research and extension publications is presented. Topics relating to seed production include the morphology of the peanut plant and seed, field isolation requirements, seed calcium requirements, harvest management and conditioning. Seed testing issues include inter-laboratory variability in germination testing, the development of procedures for a seedling vigor classification and a 3-hour dynamic conductivity analysis, a variant on the standard seed seeds are low in vigor, and the relationship between vigor and the seedbed environment.
23432823|Thirteen Canadian two-rowed barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) cultivars were separated into two groups based on differences in rachilla hair length. The cultivars were otherwise indistinguishable for seed phenotypic characters. Electrophoretic techniques were used to distinguish individual cultivars within each of the two groups. Banding patterns in six systems including, in seedlings: esterase, peroxidase and anodal and cathodal acid phosphatases, plus, in seeds, peroxidase and general proteins were effective in providing resolution for cultivars. One cultivar, Elrose, was distinguishable only on the basis of being polymorphic for parental patterns in esterase and anodal acid phosphatase.
23432707|Cost-effective and timely procedures to determine heterogeneity level in batch-mixed commercial seed lots are not available. This is a concept paper describing a procedure which can fill the void. The principal change from present practice is to incorporate known numbers of indicator seeds (seeds marked for easy detection) into a seed lot as it is being mixed and then to test for random distribution of the indicator seeds within the lot. The procedure is illustrated with examples for a blend of two alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) seed lots, a direct-harvest alfalfa seed lot, and a lawngrass seed mixture. Key steps are (1) determine amount of indicator seed needed, (2) obtain and mark the indicator seeds, (3) mix the seed lot, incorporating the indicator seeds as additional components of the lot, (4) draw samples, (5) count and record numbers of indicator seeds in samples, and (6) analyze results. The test requires no specialized equipment, and can be run by conditioning plant employees. Calculations can be made with the aid of a hand calculator. The test can be especially useful for testing the effectiveness of seed mixing systems (equipment, mixing time, warehouse procedures, etc.). Benefits of using the test could include gaining approval for an increase in size of some U.S. seed lots entering international seed markets; reduced numbers of "stop sales" in intra- and interstate commerce; reduction in the occurrance of under-mixing and concurrent heterogeneity; reduction of over-mixing and concurrent unnecessary seed damage; and a higher quality product for consumers.
23432752|The results of two experiments on the conductivity test for bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) seed quality are reported. In the first experiment, the effect of reducing soaking time from 24 hr down to 0.5 hr was examined by monitoring the conductivity levels of the leachate from 49 single beans. Correlations with 24 hr conductivity ranged from 0.78 at 0.5 hr to 0.96 at 9 hr. A 4 hr soaking time gave results consistent with the 24 hr test. In the second experiment, the standard germination test was compared for 10 bean lines with the 4 hr single bean conductivity test, and the germination test applied to the same beans after 4 hr soaking. Two lines with high germination in the standard test performed poorly in the other tests. Based on these results, the conductivity test should be a quick means of detecting poor quality seed lots, and both the conductivity and the soak/germination tests should complement the germination test in assessing potential field performance.
23432964|The status of seed vigor testing was determined by surveying seed testing laboratories in the Association of Official Seed Analysts (AOSA) and the Society of Commercial Seed Technologists (SCST). The survey indicated that 61% of the 102 laboratories responding were testing for seed vigor, which was 10 percentage points higher than in 1976. The vigor tests conducted by the largest percentage of all laboratories responding were; cold test (72%), tetrazolium (66%) and acceleratedaging (65%). Nearly two-thirds of the 61 laboratories conducting vigor tests were conducting three or more different tests in their laboratories. The tests which have shown the greatest increase since 1976 in laboratories testing for vigor were; accelerated-aging, conductivity and tetrazolium. Corn and soybeans were the crops tested most frequently for seed vigor in 85 and 74%, respectively, of the responding laboratories. The SCST laboratories tended to conduct more vigor tests per laboratory and a greater number of samples per test annually than the AOSA laboratories.
23432946|The hard seed coat trait in soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merr.) has been utilized to reduce seed deterioration in humid climates; however, cultivars with high levels of hardseededness require post-harvest scarification to allow rapid imbibition and germination. The purpose of this experiment was to determine how seed size and scarification interact to affect the percentage of hard seed in a seed lot. Four seed lots derived from 'D86-4565' and 'D87-4629' (hardseeded experimental strains) were screened for size and scarified. Initial hard seed percentages ranged from 26 to 89%. Hard seed increased with seed size to a maximum value and then decreased in three of the four seed lots, indicating that the smallest seed were not always the hardest. Large seed were more easily scarified than small seed in two of the lots. In the largest seed-size category of a conditioned seed lot of D86-4565, scarification reduced the percentage of hard seed below 1%. These results implied that the difficulty of scarifying hard seed could be reduced by selecting for large seed in breeding programs and screening for seed size during conditioning.
23432974|The effect of potassium fertilization on seed infection by Phomopsis spp. and seed quality of four soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merr) genotypes was evaluated for four years on a soil with a low initial available potassium level. Soil potassium applications of 28 to 224 kg ha.1 significantly increased soil test potassium levels and potassium levels in the soybean leaves at growth stage R2 and in carpels at growth stages R6 and R7. There was no significant increase in K levels of seed, however, following potassium fertilization. Soil applications of potassium had no effect on the levels of Phomopsis spp. infection of carpels at growth stages R6 and R7 or seed at harvest maturity (HM). Thus, there was no relationship between potassium concentration in carpels at growth stages R6 and R7 and Phomopsis spp. infection in carpels at R7. Similarly there was no relationship between potassium concentration in carpels at R7 or seeds at HM and seed germination or Phomopsis spp. infection of seed at HM.
23432931|Studies with seeds of winterfat [Ceratoides lanata (Pursh) J. T. Howell] were conducted preparatory to submitting a proposal for an addition to Rules For Testing Seeds. "Threshed seeds," "fruits  3 mm in length," and "all winterfat fruits" were evaluated as criteria for determining what should be considered pure seed in laboratory testing. Seed analysts are advised to follow existing guidelines and classify all winterfat fruits, regardless of size, as pure seed. The minimum weight for purity analysis is 12 grams. Evaluation of laboratory germination methods showed "in covered petri dishes on the surface of moistened blotters" to be a suitable substratum, and 15C constant temperature for 14 days without light is recommended for laboratory germination. For fresh lots, prechilling at 5C for 14 days is recommended.
23432938|Rice (Oryza sativa Linn.) seeds are treated prior to storage with insecticides and fungicides to ward off the external agents of seed damage. Fumigation controls the insects that have already infested the seeds. Several pre-sowing seed treatments are available to prevent seedling mortality during germination. Such treatments not only enhance seedling establishment but also the crop performance. A few areas of rice seed treatment requiring further studies are also indicated.
23432746|Six nonscarified seed lots of sweetclover, Melilotus officinalis Lam., and M. alba Medik., were exposed to infrared radiation, radiofrequency electric fields, and gas-plasma radiation to compare the effectiveness of the treatments in reducing hard-seed content. All three treatments were about equally effective. Significant increases in normal-seedling germination and corresponding decreases in hard-seed percentages were achieved, but substantial amounts of hard seed remained in all seed lots after treatment. Treatments were generally more effective when seed moisture content was low. Results of greenhouse sand emergence tests on treated and control samples were similar to those obtained in standard laboratory blotter germination tests. Measured water sorption of seed samples also followed the same patterns as germination test results, since both reflected changes in seed coat permeability. Samples tested after 17 years in storage at 4 C and 50% relative humidity had generally higher normal-seedling counts and much higher abnormal seedling and dead seed counts than they did in initial tests. However, significant increases in normal-seedling germination and reductions in hard seed content were still evident after 17 years in storage as a result of the electrical treatments. Improvements in germination performance were not great enough or consistent enough to warrant serious consideration of the treatments for practical application.
23432784|Commercial lime seed coatings from three companies were tested for their ability to influence alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) seedling emergence, nodulation, and forage yield. Seedings were made at three sites in interior British Columbia, differing in elevation and environment, during each of two years, 1987 and 1988. Only one seed coating, Rhizo-Kote, increased seedling emergence, by an average of 21% over six seedings. At the one site where there was a response to inoculation, all three coatings resulted in root nodulation similar to field inoculation of bare seed with peat-based inoculum by the water slurry method. Seeding-year yield from preinoculated coated seed was similar to yield from field inoculated bare seed. Although Rhizo-Kote improved seedling emergence, it did not increase yield.
23432945|Occasionally, large differences occur between actual germination and germination potential of gin run cottonseed as estimated in a tetrazolium test. The reason for these differences is not always apparent. One possibility is the presence of internal microorganisms. To test this hypothesis, 36 samples of gin run cottonseed were evaluated using the standard germination test. Twenty-seven of the 36 samples were selected for tetrazolium testing. The remaining nine lots were eliminated because of similarity in the standard germination tests. Nine of the 27 samples tested using the tetrazolium test were selected for microorganism anlysis. These nine samples were selected based on differences between standard germination and estimated germination in the tetrazolium test and number of dead seed per lot. Seed from each sample were acid delinted using concentrated H2SO4. Microorganisms were isolated from inside the seed coat and from the embryos of 100 randomly selected seed from each lot. Bacteria were found more often than fungi. Enterobacter agglomerans was the dominant bacterium and the most prevalent fungi were in the genus Fusarium. Only 2.9% of the embryos contained bacteria and 1.4% contained fungi. Fungi inside the seed coat were also low. Only 2.7% of the seed coats were infected. Total bacteria inside the seed coat were much higher with 15.2% of the seed coats being infected. The number of embryos containing fungi was negatively and significantly correlated with germination. r=0.655, while the number of bacteria inside the seed coat and in the embryo was positively and significantly correlated with germination, r=0.852 and 0.891 respectively. All three correlations were significant at the 0.05 level of probability. Results obtained from this study indicate that internally borne microorganisms contribute little to the reduced germination of gin run cottonseed.
23432670|Several image processing techniques are being developed at the National Seed Storage Laboratory to enhance the preservation and utilization of seed germplasm. Two projects investigate the potential of this technology in controlling and providing additional information in germination testing, seedling growth rate analysis and tetrazolium testing. Another thrust of the research has been to develop an image-based database. Investigations in this study concentrate on the development of features which describe physical characteristics of seed. An object-oriented database was developed within the Windows 3.1 operating environment. This database is unique because it is capable of displaying many types of information, for example seed images, graphs, or color pads. Machine vision and image analysis have shown promise and many new applications of this technology are being developed.
23432921|This report is a review of selected literature pertinent to the application of hypochlorites as seed sterilants. Emphasis is given to variables known to have significant influence on the usefulness of hypochlorites as disinfecting or sterilizing agents. These variables include concentration, pH, temperature, catalysts, excess alkalinity, chlorine demand, and exposure time. Hypochlorite chemistry is summarized and various appropriate terms are defined and presented as recommendations for standard terminology in the use of hypochlorites as seed sterilants.
23433006|Four stored lots of noble fir, Abies procera Rehd. and two of pacific silver fir, A. amabilis (Dougl.) Forbes, were soaked in tap water for 48 hours at room temperature, stratified for 28 days at 4C, dried to a moisture content between 5 and 9%, followed by 14 cold storage treatments. Both species were held in cold storage up to 360 days after drying without any significant loss in viability. All storage periods resulted in improved germination over the controls, which were germinated immedately after stratification without redrying. The combined effect of all lengths of cold storage on germination was not consistent between species and seed lots.
23430396|Seed lots of seven small-seeded legume species and winter oats, winter rye, and perennial ryegrass were exposed to 39 MHz electric fields of known field intensities for various time periods and tested for germination response. The radiofrequency (RF) treatments effectively increased germination of alfalfa, red clover, and ladino clover through reduction of hard seed percentages. Significant increases in germination for these three species, as a result of electrical treatment, were retained in temperature- and humidity-controlled storage for 14 years. Differences between treated and untreated samples held in a seed warehouse without temperature and humidity control tended to disappear after a few years because hard seeds became permeable naturally as the seeds aged. RF treatments overcame postharvest dormancy in winter oats. They did not affect the longevity of winter rye seed held for 6 years after treatment.
23432772|The germination response of desert needlegrass was determined for 55 constant and alternating temperature regimes. The seeds tested were collected from native stands growing on rangelands in the Intermountain area. The germination response at the wide range of constant and alternating temperatures was used to construct quadratic response surfaces. The surfaces were used to predict the germination of desert needlegrass in relation to temperature. For a native needlegrass species, the seeds were relatively germinable at a wide range of temperatures. Compared to known seedbed temperatures for rangelands, germination occurred at most moderate seedbed temperatures and a high proportion of cold seedbed temperatures, but was greatly reduced at widely fluctuating and warm seedbed temperatures. A constant 15 C appeared to be the most desirable temperature for testing the germination of this species.
23432811|Liquid nitrogen (LN2) seed storage has great potential for longterm preservation. However, some legumes are damaged following exposure to LN2. Exposure of alfalfa (Medicago sativa L. subsp. sativa) seed to LN 2 was investigated to determine effects on germination, viability, broken cotyledons, emergence, and dry weight. Treatments evaluated were: LN2 liquid cooling (196C) with rapid (35C) or normal (room temp) warming, LN2 vapor phase cooling (160C) with normal warming, hand scarified LN2 vapor phase with normal warming, hand scarified, and non-scarified control. Prior to LN2 treatment, average percentage of hard seed of the four seed lots was 74% and average seed moisture content was 5.9%. Alfalfa accessions containing a high percentage of hard seed (up to 79%) had cotyledon breakage when exposed to LN2 vapor phase (160C) for 24 h. Cotyledon breakage was reduced when seed was scarified prior to LN2 exposure. Emergence was not significantly affected by any treatment except LN2 vapor phase with normal warming and the non-scarified control which had significantly less emergence due to hard seed content. Non-scarified control seedling weight was 80% heavier than LN2 liquid phase cooling with either rapid or normal warming. This study suggests that cotyledon breakage of alfalfa seed is associated with hard-seededness usually found in newly harvested seed and that cotyledon breakage reduces seedling growth.
23432717|Bentgrasses (Agrostis spp.) are economically important turfgrasses in the Northeastern United States and, consequently, new and rapid methods of bentgrass cultivar identification need to be developed. Protein extracts obtained from unimbibed seeds of 10 bentgrass cultivars were characterized using 7% polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis to isolate esterase isoenzymes. The cultivars from the following species were studied: Agrostis palustris Huds. (creeping bentgrass) 'National', 'Penncross', 'Seaside', 'Penneagle', 'Pennlinks', 'Emerald'; Agrostis canina L. (velvet bentgrass) 'Kingstown'; Agrostis tenuis Sibth. (colonial bentgrass) 'Dutchess', 'Exeter', 'Highland'. The results revealed that esterase banding profiles separated creeping, colonial and velvet bentgrasses. Prominent bands at Rf 0.55-0.59 were unique to the colonial bentgrass cultivars. Creeping bentgrass cultivars were charcterized by bands at Rf 0.50-0.60 but these lacked the intensity of the colonial cultivars. Velvet bentgrass was distinguished from the creeping and colonial bentgrasses by bands which were prominent at Rf 0.57-0.66. Minor banding pattern variations characterized the individual cultivars within each of these species groups. This study demonstrated that esterase isoenzyme analysis using polyacrylamide electrophoresis can be an effective tool in screening bentgrass species or identifying various cultivars within each species. These tests can be used to supplement visual seed analysis or traditional field and growth chamber tests.
23432696|The effects of mechanical sizing on soybean seed planter metering accuracy were investigated. Seven lots of four cultivars were sized into seven thickness size categories ranging from 10/64 in. (3.97 mm) to 16/64 in. (6.35 mm). Metering accuracy of three plates, B24-28, BSOY2 and BSOY, manufactured by Lincoln Ag. Products, Lincoln, Nebraska was determined with 28 seed sizes and size combinations using a John Deere Planter Plate Test Stand. A planter plate cell metering accuracy percentage (CMA%) was calculated on the basis of the most frequent number of seed discharged per cell. The B24-28 plate (widely used to plant large, round corn seed) gave CMA values of 90% or higher for 23 of the 28 seed size categories and combinations. The BSOY2 plate gave CMA values of 90% or higher when seed were uniform in size (to 1/64 inch) (0.397 mm) or when seed smaller than 13/64 in. (5.16 mm) thick were removed from the seed lot. The BSOY plate gave CMA values of 90% or higher only when seed smaller than 13/64 in. thick were removed from the seed lot. Results were confirmed in large hopper box tests simulating field planting.
23432740|A few seed transmitted viruses are carried on the surface of seed and in seed parts outside the embryo; however, most are carried in the embryo. The methods that can be used to detect seedborne viruses include both biological methods (grow-on test and direct seed test) and serological tests (agar double diffusion, radial diffusion, latex flocculation, ELISA, SSEM). These methods are described in some detail and all partially meet the criteria of simple, rapid, specific, sensitive and inexpensive that are distinctive for the "Ideal Method".
23432941|Pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) seeds were soaked in water, a 1% KNO3 + 1% K2HPO4 solution, or a 1.5% KNO3 + 1.5% K2HPO4 solution at 21C for either 72 hrs or 96 hrs. Seeds were air dried and germinated at 15C, 20C, or 25C. All soaking treatments hastened germination and resulted in more uniform germination. The velocity of germination was increased by soaking treatments and this increase was promoted by greater germination temperatures. Seed soaking reduced germination index more at 15C than 20C or 25C. Soaking seed in water or a 1% KNO3 + 1% K2HPO4 solution gave similar results and were slightly better in promoting germination than the 1.5% KNO3 + 1.5% K2HPO4 solution.
23432661|Freezing at an ultralow temperature and thawing was shown in 1930 to decrease hard-seededness of alfalfa but the method has never been applied commercially. Freezing equipment now exists that could be adapted for freezing batches of alfalfa seed. Thus this study was conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of freeze-thaw treatments to reduce hard-seededness of two alfalfa seed lots known to have hard seed. A study was also conducted to determine if freeze-thawing of seeds has any negative effects on subsequent plant growth. Freezing to -10C was ineffective but freezing to -80C was highly effective at decreasing hard-seededness. Freeze-thaw treatments effectively decreased hard seed content of seed lots of a purple flowered alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) cultivar, Peace, and a yellow flowered alfalfa (Medicago falcata L.) cultivar, Anik. Hard seed content decreased exponentially with the number of freeze-thaw cycles. With a freeze-thaw cycle consisting of 2 h exposure to -80C and 2 or 18 h thaw at 20C, it took 1.6 cycles to decrease Peace hard seed by 50% and 2.6 cycles to decrease Anik hard seed by 50%. The -80C freeze-thaw treatments increased rate of germination based on total seed population, total germination, rate of seedling development, and number of seedlings established. Freeze-thawing does not affect nonhard seeds since the freeze-thaw treatment had no effect on the rate of seed germination when based only on the population of seeds germinating. Freeze-thaw treatment of seed had no effect on seedling vigor as measured by dry matter production. The freeze-thaw treatment is an effective method for decreasing alfalfa hard-seededness; thus, an economic analysis of its use for commercial application is required.
23432692|Poor chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) stand establishment often occurs when seeds are planted in cool soils. The effects of storage temperature and duration on 'Garnet' chickpea seed germination at low temperature were determined. In a storage temperature study three seedlots were stored at 5C, 23C, and open temperatures (16-27C). In a storage duration study seeds were stored 104 weeks at 5C, then transferred to 23C for periods ranging from 1 to 8 weeks before germination testing. Storage at 23C or open storage reduced germination percentage and germination index and increased hardseededness. Seedling growth rate at 5C germination temperature was not influenced by storage temperature, but was significantly lower at 27C germination temperature for seed from open storage. Seeds moved from cool to warm storage environments rapidly exhibited decreased germination and increased hardseededness.
23432910|Cultivar Verification Testing started in Canada on a small scale in the early 1930's. A full field plot testing program covering the cultivar purity testing of pedigree seed was initiated by Agriculture Canada's Plant Products Division in 1959. The application of laboratory testing methods and the development of laboratory methods was started after 1965 and has led to the development or modification of many routine laboratory test methods. Cultivar purity testing programs have been initiated in the Plant Products Division District Seed Laboratories in order that these laboratories can provide this type of analytical service to its districts enforcement staff and other persons involved in the seed pedigree system.
23432657|Rapid and efficient methods are needed to differentiate between creeping bentgrass (Agrostis palustris Huds.) and colonial bentgrass (Agrostis tenuis Sibth.) species and to complement both visual evaluation of seeds and growth chamber tests. This study was initiated to determine if varying proportions of colonial bentgrass seeds could be detected in creeping bentgrass seeds using esterase isoenzyme polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) and to determine at what lower proportion level esterase isoenzyme PAGE was no longer capable of resolving the creeping bentgrass admixture. The PAGE procedures revealed that colonial and creeping bentgrass seed extracts had distinct esterase isoenzyme banding patterns and the staining intensity of bands at RF 0.55 to 0.70 could be used to detect mixtures of creeping and colonial bentgrass. Proportions as low as 10% colonial bentgrass seeds in creeping bentgrass seeds were detected by visual examination of PAGE gels and proportions as low as 5% were detected using densitometric scans of the gels. This study demonstrated that PAGE esterase isoenzyme analysis was an effective method to detect colonial bentgrass contamination in creeping bentgrass and can provide the seed analyst with another test to supplement visual evaluation of seeds and growth chamber tests.
23432765|Accelerated aging is an established seed vigor test for a number of crop species. This investigation examined the effects of aging temperatures and duration of exposure on the germination of treated and untreated sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L. Moench) seed. Three temperatures (41C, 43C and 45C) and three exposure periods (24, 48 and 72 h) were tested using seed lots of "Topaz" of different ages and two seed treatments (Captan and methoxychlor; Captan, methoxychlor and Concept II). Seed moisture increased with longer aging durations with little differences between seed lots. Seed moistures of 2930% were reached after 72 h aging at both 43 and 45C. Seed germination was almost unaffected by aging at 41C but declined at higher temperatures and after longer test durations. Seed from a freshly harvested high vigor seed lot had higher accelerated-aging germination than carryover lower vigor seed lots. Seed treated with Captan and Methoxychlor germinated similar to the untreated seed following aging, however when Concept II was added the seed showed greater sensitivity to aging stress especially in carryover seed lots. Seed lots were effectively separated by aging for 72 h, 43C and 48 h, 45C. Both aging treatments showed high correlations with soil emergence across three field plantings, however, the 72 h, 43C treatment is recommended because it showed the most consistent germination results across treated and untreated seed lots.
23432960|Reserve protein degradation began the second day of germination in cotyledons of Cucurbita moschata Poir. 'Walthan Butternut', and was complete by the sixth day of germination. The original salt soluble, heat stable protein was converted into water soluble, heat stable protein and finally into free amino acids. Removal of the embryo tissue had no effect upon the degradation rate or pattern. Cyclohexamide or polyethylene glycol prevented protein breakdown when applied to axisless cotyledons. Cyclohexamide severely reduced protein degradation when applied on the third day of germination. It was concluded that emybro tissue was not required for reserve protein degradation in this species; that enzymes required for protein degradation were synthesized during germination; and that cotyledon expansion was required for reserve protein degradation. It was suggested that the metabolic activity caused by cotyledon expansion may serve as an internal sink for the products of storage protein degradation, reducing their concentration to a non-inhibitory level.
23432959|Enzymatic activity capable of cleaving the peptide bond of N-benzoyl-DL-arginine-p-nitroaniline (BAPAse activity) and N-benzoyl-DL-arginine--naphthalinide (BANAse activity) was found in cotyledons of germinating seeds of Cucurbita moshata Poir. 'Waltham Butternut'. Removal of the embryonic axis did not influence the maximum level of enzyme activity. BAPAse activity was separated into two fractions by Sephadex G-50 and DEAE chromatography. The BAPAses were inhibited by N-ethylmaleimide and iodoacetamide suggesting that the enzymes were sulfhydryl dependent while BANAse activity was not inhibited. The BAPAses were not inhibited by arginine, -aminobutyric acid, asparagine, glutamate or ornithine at a concentration 5-fold greater than the substrate. Neither BAPAses or BANAse were capable of cleaving peptide bonds found in the seed globulin, the water soluble, heat stable protein derived from the seed globulin or N--benzoyl-L-argininamide. These enzymes may degrade small arginine containing peptides derived from the original seed globulin.
23432824|Fusicoccin (FC) applied by acetone infusion to seeds of tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.), pepper (Capiscum annuum L.) and sugarbeet (Beta vulgaris L.) promoted rapid germination. Gibberellic acid (GA3, GA4/7) stimulated low temperature germination of pepper and sugarbeet seeds but was less effective than FC. Ethephon (E) stimulated germination of 'Ace 55 VF' tomato seeds while no response resulted from kinetin (K) treatment. The combination of GA4/7, K and E stimulated early germination of tomato seeds. FC and GA4/7 used in combination on sugarbeet seeds were not faster acting than FC alone but did eventually produce an additive increase in the germination rate.
23432656|Soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill] seed vigor can affect yield either indirectly by influencing plant populations or more directly by affecting plant growth. Greenhouse experiments were conducted to evaluate the relationship between seed vigor and seedling growth. Seed lots of six cultivars with acceptable standard germination (82%) and high- and low-vigor levels based on the speed of germination and accelerated-aging germination tests were selected. In a first set of experiments, large and small size classes were selected from each seed lot of two cultivars (DeSoto and Pershing) using round hole screens. Seeds were planted in the greenhouse and seedling dry weight (excluding the cotyledons) and leaf area were measured at 5, 10, 15, and 20 d after emergence (DAE) on seedlings that exhibited no cotyledon injuries and emerged on the same day. Within a vigor level, seedlings from large seeds were heavier at the first and final harvests than seedlings from small seeds by an average of 55 and 57%, respectively. Seed size had no effect on specific growth rate (SGR) (mg mg-1 day-1) or net assimilation rate (NAR) (g m-2 d-1). Seed vigor had no effect on SGR, NAR, or seedling weight at 20 DAE. In a second set of experiments, individual seed conductivity of seeds from high- and low-vigor seed lots of four cultivars ('SS443', 'Harper', 'BE-29' and 'Williams 82') was measured and related to seedling dry weight accumulation. There was no significant relationship between conductivity and seedling dry weight at 20 DAE for seedlings with no cotyledon injury. However, an average of 49% of the seedlings from low vigor seedlots showed cotyledon injury at emergence vs. 20% for high-vigor seedlots. Seedlings with cotyledon injury emerged slower and had less dry weight at 20 DAE. The data indicate that seed vigor has no effect on the ability of the seedling to accumulate dry weight if there is no injury to the cotyledons.
23432920|The ABA content of elderberry (Sambucus cerulea Raf.) seed harvested from two different locations increased as the seed approached physiological maturity and decreased thereafter. At no time during seed maturation would the seed germinate in water. The germination percentage of mature seed stratified and germinated in gibberellic acid increased as the ABA content of the seed declined.
23433007|The similarity in seeds of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivars makes identification by morphological characteristics difficult. The phenol test is used to identify cultivars and to determine cultivar mixtures and mixtures of winter and spring types. The various colorations in the seed coat caused by the phenol oxidation make identification possible. The Munsell Soil Color Charts were used as reference in identification of color of 37 various cultivars. Evaluation by phenol testing requires known samples and careful timing to assure accurate evaluation.
23432709|Soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr] cultivars with water-impermeable seed coats have superior resistance to seed deterioration caused by late-season rains that may delay harvest. The purpose of this study was to determine if a cultivar with a high percentage of hard seed may be sufficiently scarified by mechanical harvest to permit rapid imbibition and germination. A hardseeded strain, 'D86-4510,' was harvested in 1988 and 1989 with a Massey Super 35 combine at recommended and increased cylinder speeds in factorial combination with recommended and reduced concave spacings. Seed were also threshed by hand, for comparison. Harvested seed were analyzed using 24-h soak, standard germination, and accelerated aging tests. Combine harvesting reduced the percentage of hard seed in both years. Reduction in concave spacing had no affect in 1988, but lowered hard seed by 6% in 1989. Increasing cylinder speed from 700 to 1050 rpm reduced hard seed by 9% in both years. Although machine-harvest treatments reduced hard seed, 47% and 63% of seed from D86-4510 remained hard in 1988 and 1989, respectively, when harvested at the highest cylinder speed and closest concave spacing. A 24-h soak test conducted 210 d after the 1989 harvest revealed no appreciable changes in hardseededness. Since 47% or more of the seed from D86-4510 remained hard after machine harvest each year, it seems apparent that seed from similar cultivars now being developed will require specific post-harvest scarification prior to planting.
23432708|Environmental stress during seed development may influence soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill] seed quality. Two greenhouse experiments were conducted to study the effect of drought stress on soybean (cv. 'McCall') seed germination and vigor. Two stress treatments (moderate and severe) were imposed at growth stages R5 and R6 and compared with well watered plants. Drought stress significantly reduced weight per seed and yield per plant and increased stomatal resistance. It had little effect on seed shape; however, and few shrunken or wrinkled seed were produced. Drought stress had no effect on seed germination and little effect on seed vigor as measured by the accelerated aging, conductivity and cold tests. In one experiment, drought stress increased the proportion of hard seed (especially in the smaller seed size fraction) which lowered 3-day germination, but did not affect final germination or vigor. Although the most severe drought stress treatment reduced seed weight and yield substantially (34% and 38%, respectively) it had little or no effect on seed quality.
23432988|The detrimental effects of Phomopsis spp. on seed germination of soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill] are broadly recognized. Rolled paper toweling is the most widely used method for testing germination of soybean seed. The validity of the rolled-paper-towel test to determine the actual viability of soybean seed infected with Phomopsis spp. was examined. Seventy-three seed samples of 23 soybean cultivars produced in Florida in 1986 were analyzed for germination, vigor [tetrazolium (TZ) test], and pathogens. Phomopsis spp. were the fungi most frequently associated with soybean seed (up to 77% seed infection). Infection by these microorganisms was mainly restricted to the seedcoat. Deep-seated infection was rare (mean 0.5%). Viability, as obtained by the standard germination test (rolled paper toweling) was drastically reduced by high (>33%) levels of Phomopsis spp. These detrimental effects were not observed when germination was examined in sand, if conditions were adequate for fast emergence. When seed were tested in sand, the infected seedcoats remained in or on the sand upon emergence, thus the seedlings escaped much of the detrimental effects of infected seedcoats. Therefore, rolled paper toweling was not the best substrate to evaluate germination of soybean seed infected with high levels of Phomopsis spp. Emergence in sand or the TZ test provided more realistic estimates of viability for seed lots infected with these fungi. Nevertheless, it was noted that as the vigor level expressed by the TZ test decreased, the level of infected seedlings and damping-off tended to increase.
23432637|The use of beardless wildrye (Elymus triticoides Buckl.) as a forage grass is limited by slow germination and poor stand establishment. Little research has been done on the germination of beardless wildrye. The purpose of this research was to study the germination behavior of beardless wildrye in an effort to define factors contributing to slow germination. We studied the effect of temperature on imbibition and germination, and the effects of stratification, seed size, embryo excision and high oxygen concentrations on germination. Temperature did not affect total imbibition, however, imbibition at 30 and 20 C induced greater germination when transferred to a 15-25 C alternating germination environment. The application of oxygen induced the greatest germination response of all treatments (57%). Excised embryos germinated rapidly and percentage germination was equal to viability of the seed lot. The response to oxygen and the rapid and complete germination of excised embryos indicates that dormancy in beardless wildrye is imposed by the outer coverings of the seed. Germination was not influenced by seed size.
23432749|Skunkbush sumac (Rhus trilobata Nutt.) and serviceberry (Amelanchier alnifolia Nutt.) are native shrubs extensively distributed in the western United States which have achieved importance in revegetation of disturbed lands. Standard germination tests were performed on each species as outlined in the literature. Seed viability was determined with triphenyl tetrazolium chloride (TZ). Results indicated that special techniques would be required to affect the rapid germination needed in current seed testing programs. Both species have hard or impermeable seed coats and embryo dormancy normally overcome by cold stratification or fall sowing. Results confirm that skunkbush sumac germination is promoted by 75 minutes acid scarification and that KNO3 or GA produce no additional response. Acid scarification for 30 minutes and a mixture of thiourea (TU) and benzyladenine (BA) as a media moistening agent was beneficial to serviceberry germination. Analysis predicted maximum germination to occur with 300 ppm BA and 100 mM TU. An interaction of BA and TU on germination was observed at the lower concentrations.
23433008|A simple, mechanically operated shaker, suitable for routine testing of samples from barley breeding programmes, was used to determine the effect of shaking time on 'screenings' produced from two contrasting barley samples. The shaker was fitted with a single screen with 2.2 mm apertures. Screenings increased asymptotically as shaking time was extended, a minimum of 5 min being needed to give a constant screenings figure. With 5 min shaking, the means and 95% confidence intervals for the varieties Clipper and Pirouette were 8.1  0.5 and 15.7  1.2 respectively.
23432783|This study evaluated accelerated aging (AA) (41 C100% RH) technique for increasing germination by reducing dormancy in Pensacola bahiagrass seed. The objective was to age the seed sufficiently to increase germination up to or near maximum viability without reducing vigor or storage potential. The (AA) treatment resulted in an increase in total germination from 50 to 95% in the seed lots of this study. The rate of germination also was increased by the aging. In the AA treated seed only 14 days were required to attain a germination percentage equivalent to that of 28 days in the unaged seed. A more rapid germination rate would reduce the time needed for laboratory germination tests and may improve stand establishment. While the stresses of high temperature and humidity age the seed and thereby increase total germination and speed of germination, these stresses have the potential for reducing vigor and storage life of the seed. Aged seed planted in sand and incubated in a low temperature stress (25C) showed greater emergence (30%) than unaged seed (12%) when counted 14 days after planting. In a test to evaluate the effect of aging on viability after storage, germination of aged seed was not reduced after 1 year of storage.
23432944|Since lipids play a role in the survival of seeds, it is important to understand the lipid chemistry in seeds as they age. Significant differences in the extractable, nonpolar lipid fraction of naturally aged and fresh seeds of lettuce (Lactuca sativa L.) were observed using liquid carbon dioxide extraction followed by capillary supercritical fluid chromatographic separation and flame ionization detection. In the aged seed, both low molecular weight products and high molecular weight polymeric products were detected with a concomitant decrease in the two major triglycerides relative to those in the fresh seed. The analytical methodology developed for this study was found to be quantitatively reproducible for a mixture of five standard triglycerides with a coefficient of variability of less than 0.6%. Nine triglycerides were identified using supercritical fluid chromatography. Identities of four free fatty acids were confirmed by capillary gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. While the appearance of degradation products has previously been associated with the aging process, the appearance of polymeric products in association with seed degradation has not been reported, but was made possible through the use of supercritical fluid chromatography. This new information may provide further insight to why seeds loose vigor and viability.
23432815|The loss of intracellular materials from seeds during imbibition has been used as an index of seed quality and vigor. Information about the origin of the leachate and the manner in which loss is affected by aging is needed to improve the interpretation of leakage measurements. In order to identify the origin and characterize the effects of aging on loss, a compartmental analysis was done on the potassium efflux from submerged pea (Pisum sativum L.) embryos during imbibition. Potassium activity in the mechanically stirred solution, buffered to pH 6.5, was monitored with a potassium ion-selective electrode for the initial 4 h after the dry embryo began to imbibe. The kinetics of efflux from both control and aged embryos fit a double exponential curve, consistent with efflux from two compartments. One compartment exchanged rapidly with a half-time of approximately 7 min, while the other compartment, which accounted for most of the leaching potassium, had a half-time for exchange of about 2 h. Aging increased the amount of potassium available for efflux from both compartments and possibly decreased the half-time for exchange from the slowly-exchanging compartment.
23432817|Changes in germination of 22 soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merr.) seed lots in open storage were compared to several time-temperature combinations of accelerated aging (AA) to determine their accuracy in predicting the storability of soybean seed lots. Samples of seed were placed in open storage at Mississippi State University on March 4. Germination tests were conducted from samples in open storage in June, August, October and December. The effectiveness of the tests were evaluated by simple regression analysis. Correlation coefficients (r) were .860** and .937** for AA at 40 C for 48 hours with June and August germination respectively and .900** and .849** for AA at 45 C for 48 hours with October and December germinations respectively. This demonstrates that accelerated aging is an effective means of predicting storability of soybean seed lots.
23432660|Alfalfa seed is mostly produced in geographical locations other than where it will be planted for forage production. The effect of geographic area of seed production on performance of the progeny of hybrid alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) seed is not well known. This study was conducted to determine the effect of geographic location of alfalfa seed production on the performance of the progeny. Seeds of a self-sterile alfalfa clone 191 were produced in cages under two environments ["cool" (average temperature = 25.6C) and "hot" (average temperature 32.3C)] at Logandale, Nevada and in the field at Tucson, Arizona; Moscow, Idaho; and Bozeman, Montana. The progeny were grown under field conditions at Reno and Logandale, Nevada. Plants grown in trials at Reno and Logandale, Nevada showed no significant (P=0.05) difference in plant height, dry matter yield or crown diameter due to geographical location or environment of seed production in alfalfa clone 191.
23432711|Comparison of the anatomical structures of high density seeds with low density seeds and early germinating with late germinating seeds of sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.)] were made using scanning electron microscopy. The differences in anatomical structures of high and low density seeds and early and late germinating seeds were primarily due to differences in maturity. High density seed had a thinner pericarp, were better filled in the endosperm and had a better developed embryonic axis than the low density seed. Differences in early germinating and late germinating seed between 1.17 and 1.30 specific gravity were not as pronounced as in the low density seeds and late vs. early germinating seed from the ungraded sample. There were no obvious differences in pericarp thickness, celeoptile and plumule development. Differences were evident in the radicle area where structures were not as well organized.
23432935|Broadcast seeding of forage crops having small seed is difficult and often results in uneven stands due to the inability to consistently meter seed flow. Broadcast seeding of forage species into areas where ground equipment cannot operate is being accomplished with aircraft. The small light seed of forage grass and legume species cannot be uniformly broadcast from an aircraft due to wind currents and packing of the seed in the aircraft container. The purpose of our research was to develop seed-pelleting methods for bermudagrass [Cynodon dactylon (L.) Pers.] and ladino clover (Trifolium repens L.) with improved metering and ballistic properties for increased precision and accuracy of seed distribution from aerial seeding. Seed pellets developed with kaolin clay and several binders were tested for pellet strength and destructability and seedling establishment in greenhouse pots. Pellets made from formulations containing polyvinyl alcohol binder resulted in strong pellets that had a low percentage of destruction when tumbled for one hour. These pellets resulted in excellent seed germination (>85%) and seedling establishment for both ladino clover and bermudagrass. The pellets could be stored for up to 6 months while maintaining good seed viability and Rhizobium trifolii viability. The seed can be accurately distributed at low rates from an aircraft equipped with a Meterate applicator (Elanco Products Co., Indianapolis, IN). Pellets sprayed with diammonium phosphate (dap) produced the best bermudagrass seedling establishment. The dap, when sprayed on ladino clover seed pellets, damaged the clover seedlings. The use of pelleted seed should increase precision and accuracy of seed distribution from an aircraft and should allow for the use of lower seeding rates.
23432930|A 0.2% KNO3 solution is the best moistening agent to use when viability testing beardless wildrye. Germination temperatures of 15-25 and 20 C provide equal estimations of germination when light is used with the 20 C temperature. Beardless wildrye germination was equal in light and dark environments when using the 15-25 C temperature. Prechilling prior to germination extends the testing period and does not improve germination percentages. Beardless wildrye germination at 15-25 or 20 C in a light environment with 0.2% KNO3 for 35 days provides the best viability estimate of all germination methods evaluated. A 35-day germination test may not be practical. Germination for 21 days followed by tetrazolium evaluation of remaining seeds is recommended.
23432821|Germination of pumpkin (Cucurbita moschata Poir, cv. Dickinson Field) seeds at various times after anthesis was associated with embryo axis weight and the amount of protein reserve. Embryo axis weight increased significantly between 25 and 30 days after anthesis but maximum germination did not occur until 45 days after anthesis. Synthesis of the protein reserve as measured by total globulin was initiated 25 days after anthesis and by 40 days the globulin fraction comprised 96% of the total seed protein (30 mg protein/seed). One major reserve globulin was synthesized at all times after anthesis and seed germination was positively correlated with the amount of reserve protein. It was suggested that this large protein reserve allows pumpkin seeds harvested 45 days after anthesis (116 mg dry wt./seed) to produce yields which are similar to large pumpkin seeds (200 mg dry wt./seed).
23432671|Biochemical research has been conducted at the National Seed Storage Laboratory to examine parameters important to plant germplasm viability. Emphasis was placed on the key respiratory enzyme cytochrome c oxidase. Studies using effector molecules to probe Phaseolus respiration on a variety of physiological levels (whole seed to isolated enzyme) showed a direct correlation between rate of respiration and vigor, and implicated oxidase in loss of vigor/viability. Recalcitrant seed storage in anesthetic atmospheres was shown to increase longevity. Infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy, with a variety of sampling techniques to accommodate (intact) biological samples, is a powerful analytical tool to examine biochemical structure/function relationships to plant germplasm viability. FTIR experiments conducted on suspension cultured cells showed measurement of CO2 production to be a noninvasive viability indicator. In pollen, structural changes in membrane lipids were correlated with imbibitional chilling injury, and distinct changes in structure and function were observed in vivo during germination. FTIR-photo-acoustic spectroscopy, which can detect CO2 production during minimal hydration of intact seed, holds promise as a new noninvasive viability assessment method.
23432659|Chemical treatment of soybean (Glycine max L.) seed exposed to prolonged wet, humid weather prior to harvest resulted in more improvement in cold soil tests than either standard germination tests or warm soil tests over untreated controls at varying levels of quality between 51 and 92% germination. However, results of all tests were generally improved by seed treatment, especially at the lower quality levels, as was field emergence. After six weeks of storage in warm, dry laboratory conditions, germination in all tests tended to increase and there was less difference between treated seed and untreated controls. Both laboratory and field performance were generally improved over untreated controls for all of 17 different combinations and concentrations of seed treatment chemicals. These results show the value of a wide range of chemical treatments in increasing the performance of soybean seed.
23432796|The leakage of solutes, including electrolytes, from seeds into water can be detected by measurement of the electrical conductivity of seed leachates. The level of leakage is influenced by the stage of seed maturation at time of harvest, the degree of seed ageing and the incidence of imbibition damage. The influence of these factors on leakage is discussed with particular emphasis on the role of deteriorated and damaged membranes in determining solute loss. The application of conductivity measurements to the prediction of the germination and vigour of seed lots is discussed.
23432684|Leachate conductivity of sand, shortleaf, slash, Scotch, loblolly, and Virginia pine (Pinus clausa, P. echinata, P. elliottii, P. sylvestris, P. taeda, and P. virginiana) seeds was measured using different imbibitions and rinse times. Conductivity levels, as measured in A, were greatest for Virginia and Scotch pine seeds imbibed for 48-hours and for sand pine seeds imbibed for 24-hours. Measurement of running-water rinses indicated that leachates for all species except slash pine are diluted and lost but are retained in the standing-water imbibition. Two-seeds-per-cell for shortleaf and loblolly pines and three-seeds-per-cell for Virginia pine seeds showed significant increases in conductivity readings when compared to the one-seed-per-cell values. The movement of solvent which affects solute concentration and its net movement through the seed coat are discussed. This discussion includes speculation on selective membrane permeability.
23432939|The ability to obtain seed quality population statistics from seed steep water conductivity measurements based on large sample sizes could lead to standardized conductivity indices for vigor and viability for a greater number of seed kinds. The ASAC-100 seed analyzer simultaneously measures the steep water conductivity of 100 individual seeds. By directly interfacing the ASAC-1000 with an IBM-PC computer using the BASIC program ASACSTAT, various analyses or experiments can be designed and large quantities of data collected for statistical analysis. In addition, ASACSTAT permits the ASAC-1000 to take readings automatically at predetermined intervals, allows a tray to be divided into any number of sections, gives a compressed printout and is easy to operate. The low cost of microcomputers makes such an analysis system affordable for seed testing laboratories and research institutions.
23432797|The concept and use of Maguire's (1962) index of germination rate (G.R.) was examined from both a practical and theoretic perspective and found to be unsatisfactory. Anomalies arose in that similar germination patterns gave rise to different values of G.R., and, conversely, each value of G.R. covered a wide range of germinations. The method did not conform to any accepted measure of germination rate and was found to be very sensitive to early germinating seeds but insensitive to later ones. In published literature, G.R. was nearly always very closely correlated with total germination. Thus, G.R. seems to be redundant and its use should be discouraged in favour of citing total percent germination which has the dual advantage of being unambiguous and possessed of clear biological meaning.
23430395|The first enduring use of vital stains for seed evaluation in America was initiated at Ohio State University in 1938 and involved selenium and tellurium salts. Knowledge of the existence and merits of tetrazolium, a non-poisonous vital indicator, was first received in America in 1945 from U. S. Military personnel who investigated research activities in Germany. Initial tetrazolium studies in America were by Iowa State University, Boyce Thompson Institute and Pioneer Hi-Bred Corn Company. Reports concerning partial successes, limitations and problems became available in 1948. Many of the obvious problems encountered during the early period of tetrazolium testing in America had been previously encountered and resolved in Germany. American investigators likewise needed time to experience, recognize and correct traditional misconceptions about seed life. Voids in knowledge had to be filled. Experiences had to be gained. Desired success in tetrazolium testing seemed slightly out of reach of early American investigators. Subsequent studies, especially at Iowa, Mississippi, North Carolina, and Oregon State Universities and at the Virginia State Seed laboratory, gradually provided segments of knowledge, experience and philosophy needed for perfection and successful use of the test for a large number of crops. The acceptance of the test by the Association of Official Seed Analysts in 1970 represented an important milestone in the science of seed evaluation in America. The test is now accepted as another useful method of evaluating seed quality. The tetrazolium test is sound, however, competent analysts are indispensable for its successful use.
23432667|'Oxley' cicer milkvetch (Astragalus cicer L.) seed lots harvested from a Lethbridge, Alberta nursery and stored in an uncontrolled room were used to study the effect of storage duration on hard seed content, germination, and indoor and field emergence. Seeds harvested in 1977 and 1981 to 1991 were also used to study the effect of repeated freeze-thaw treatments on the above traits. Hard seed content fell significantly with increasing age of seed lot and was accompanied by an increase in seed germination and emergence. Cicer milkvetch seeds maintained above 90% viability for 10 yr under uncontrolled storage conditions. Germination on day 7 was significantly correlated with the germination on subsequent days and emergence. Thus, a standard 7-d germination test is sufficient to separate seed lots with differential ability to establish a stand. Heavier seeds did not have a higher inherent germinability than the lighter seeds, but were easier to scarify. Freeze-thaw treatment reduced the hard seed content from 46 to 9% and significantly increased germination and emergence. Seed lots with more hard seeds needed more freeze-thaw cycles than seed lots with fewer hard seeds. Freeze-thaw treatments may be an improvement over mechanical scarification because there is no loss due to breakage, small seed lots can be used, all the seeds are exposed to the same level of treatment and there is less risk of damage to the embryo. The presence and location of the strophiole was verified using a new, rapid and non-destructive technique which can be used to predict hard seededness.
23432698|The Association of Official Seed Analysts' Rules for Testing Seeds do not contain methods for moisture testing. The oven methods in use by seed testing laboratories in the U.S. are diverse and may produce erroneous results when compared to the Karl Fischer method. The International Seed Testing Association Rules for Seed Testing contain oven testing methods for 95 kinds of seeds, but many of the methods are empirical in nature and lacking in accuracy. This research was initiated to develop more accurate oven methods for testing moisture content of seeds of temperate-climate grass species. The test variables investigated were oven temperature, time of drying, seed grinding, and original moisture level of the seed. The species included were perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne L.), orchardgrass (Dactylis glomerata L.), colonial bentgrass (Agrostis tenuis L.), Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis Huds.), tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreb.), and red fescue (Festuca rubra L.). Drying to constant weight at temperatures of 90, 100, 105C gave moisture percentages lower than the Karl Fischer value. Drying periods of 6 h or less at 130C gave moisture percentages in agreement with Karl Fischer results. Ground and whole seed gave similar moisture percentages after drying to constant weight, but moisture was removed more rapidly from ground seeds. The required drying time for greatest accuracy depended on the original moisture content of the seed. Moisture was removed most rapidly from the highest moisture seed; thus, it is not possible to select one drying period that will provide the same degree of accuracy on seed with different moisture levels. Seed moisture tests on these six temperate-climate grass species should be conducted on whole seed at 130C. The best compromise for drying periods are 3 h for perennial ryegrass, Kentucky bluegrass, tall fescue and red fescue; 1.5 h for orchardgrass; and 1 h for colonial bentgrass.
23432668|The National Seed Storage Laboratory (NSSL) opened for business in September of 1958 with the long-term mission of preserving the seed germplasm of those crops important to U.S. agriculture. The NSSL concept was a direct result of World War II, when it became apparent that germplasm may no longer be available, particularly from many foreign countries. Dr. Edwin James was named the first Head of the Laboratory and served until his retirement in 1970. His primary accomplishments included the administration of the new facility, generating publicity about the Laboratory, and initiating the acquisition and storage of seed samples. In addition, he conducted research on such topics as seed longevity and seed deterioration, including biochemical aspects of red cotyledon in lettuce and viability assessment using such tests as the glutamic acid decarboxlyase test. Dr. Louis N. Bass joined NSSL at its inception and was named Head in 1970, a post he held until his untimely death in 1986. Louis oversaw many dramatic changes in the Laboratory, such as the shift from storing seeds at 5C to storage at -18C, primarily as a result of his research on seed storage under various conditions of temperature, relative humidity and in different gases. Louis brought the Laboratory national and international recognition through his participation in the Association of Official Seed Analysts (AOSA) (President, Merit Award, editorial duties, numerous committees), the International Seed Testing Association (ISTA) (Associate Editor of Seed Science and Technology), the American Society of Agronomy (C-4 Chair and Board Representative, Fellow) and the International Board for Plant Genetic Resources. A bibliography of James' and Bass' primary publications while at NSSL is included.
23432640|The previously recommended box and jar accelerated aging systems were evaluated using soybeans. The number of seeds per sample affected the extent of accelerated aging. A small sample (200 seeds) deteriorated more rapidly than a large sample (400 seeds). Seeds placed in a wire-mesh basket in a jar failed to demonstrate uniform moisture absorption. Seeds located in the bottom one-third of the basket had higher moisture and lower germination percentages than seeds situated elsewhere. These data suggest that the accelerated aging seed vigor test can be improved by specifying the number of seeds per sample and positioning the seeds in a single layer in order to provide more uniform seed exposure to high relative humidity. The capability of the jar and tray accelerated aging systems to distinguish three vigor levels was compared. Both systems successfully delineated the three seed vigor levels at 96 hrs aging but the degree of deterioration was more marked in the tray system. The data revealed 48 hrs to be the optimum aging period for the tray system. Further studies indicated that the level of water in the trays up to 48 hrs aging had little influence on subsequent germination. The tray accelerated aging method is inexpensive, subjects all seeds to uniform aging conditions, and is more rapid than previously recommended procedures.
23433009|Magnetic conditioning of seed lots involves treating either with iron powder and moisture or with magnetic fluid. The treated mixture is passed over a magnetic drum separator. Effects of these conditioning methods in improving germination percentages of leek seeds were investigated. Low- and high-grade commercial leek seed lots cleaned in a commercial plant were used. Treatments included iron powder/moisture or magnetic fluid at two different dilutions7:1 and 4:1. A commercial, permanent magnetic drum separator, measuring 0.08 tesla magnetic flux density at its surface, was used to separate the magnetics from the nonmagnetics. Both magnetic and nonmagnetic fractions were weighed and seed counts were taken. Germination tests were carried out on all fractions. The 7:1 diluted magnetic fluid and the iron powder/moisture conditioning methods were effective in removing low-germinating seeds to meet acceptable marketing standards. The 4:1 diluted magnetic fluid was effective in removing low-germinating seeds, but produced excessive crop seed loss. Magnetic conditioning methods to improve germination were effective for high-grade leek seed lots but not for low-grade leek seed lots.
23432818|Seeds of Coffea arabica, 'Caturra', were kept under different storage conditions. When sealed hermetically in gas-proof foil packets and stored at 10 C, seeds with 43% moisture content maintained 74% viability for five months. At moisture contents of approximately 31% and 36%, seeds deteriorated much faster. Seeds kept 6 months in "open" storage at 10 C and in an atmosphere of 70 to 90% relative humidity (RH), resulting in a seed moisture content (s.m.c.) of 15 and 23%, respectively, maintained high viability (between 84 and 92%) over six months; whereas, most seeds died at 50% RH (9% s.m.c.) Drying to 6% s.m.c. quickly killed coffee seeds. Surprisingly, some 20-25% of the seeds at 13% s.m.c. survived over six months at -20 C, a temperature thought to be lethal to so-called recalcitrant seeds. Simple classification of seeds as either 'orthodox' or 'recalcitrant' does not take into account the more complex storage behavior of species such as coffee.
23432720|Osmoconditioning (OC) seed treatments were evaluated for effect on emergence of two soybean cultivars [Glycine max (L.) Merrill], 'Lee 74' and 'Forrest', under a simulated soil crust at 15 and 20C. Weighted pistons (60 g) were placed over planted seed 24 h after planting to simulate a soil crust. A specially designed apparatus featuring tubes containing seed planted in sand and the weighted piston was placed inside a controlled climate chamber. Data were collected for total and cumulative percent emergence, seedling and root development, and emergence force. The ability of a seedling to displace weight was an indicator of emergence force. For both cultivars, osmoconditioning seed with polyethylene glycol (PEG) plus GA3 showed positive effects in cumulative percentage emergence and emergence force. At 20C, mean percentage emergence (daily percentage emergence averaged over time) from seed treated in PEG plus GA3 was significantly (=0.05) greater than from untreated seed for Forrest and numerically greater for Lee 74. At 15C, seed treated in PEG plus GA3 showed significantly (=0.05) greater mean displacement (emergence force) versus untreated seed for both cultivars. At 20C, seed treated in PEG plus GA3 failed to show a significantly greater displacement mean than untreated seed for either cultivar. These results suggest that osmoconditioning plus GA3 may be beneficial for improved emergence of soybean under suboptimal temperature and simulated soil crust.
23432958|A two-way thermogradient plate (TGP) was used to test temperature response of two lots of loblolly pine (Pinus taeda L.), one dormant and the other nondormant. Both stratified and unstratified seeds were tested on 144 alternating or constant temperature regimes which ranged 14 to 33 C. Alternating temperatures in the range of 18-21 C (night) and 28-32 C (day) gave the quickest germination for unstratified seeds, thus confirming the suitability of the current ISTA prescription of 20/30 C for this species. Stratification widened the range of temperature at which germination was satisfactory, especially on the cooler part of the TGP. The best constant temperatures were 25 to 28 C; stratification widened the range to 22 to 28 C for the nondormant lot, but did not change this range for the dormant lot. Seeds in constant temperatures benefited more from stratification than did seeds in alternating temperatures.
23432904|A thiram seed soak reduced, but did not eliminate, Alternaria brassicicola (Schw.) Wilt. infection and damping-off symptoms from infected Brassica seed lots. It did not improve germination in blotter tests or field emergence but both the thiram and water soak treatments accelerated emergence under controlled conditions and in the field. The weight per seed was reduced in seeds produced on plants inoculated with A. brassicicola at either petal fall or midpod stages. No seeds from plants inoculated at petal fall germinated in either laboratory or field tests. Regardless of the stage of development when plants were inoculated, laboratory and field germination was reduced. Seeds from ripe pods showed no difference in emergence under optimal germination conditions in the laboratory in field soil, whether sprayed with water or inoculated with A. brassicicola. These data indicate that seed infection at any stage of seed development causes a reduction in seed quality. Effective control measures should be developed for the seed crop since eradicative seed treatments are ineffective in restoring loss of seed vigor and viability caused by A. brassicicola.
23432919|Seed dormancy in blue elderberry (Sambucus cerulea Raf.) limits the usefulness of this shrub for revegetation purposes. No germination occurred if the seed were germinated in water but applications of gibberellic acid (GA3) up to 10-2 M did stimulate germination. The effect of GA3 was enhanced very slightly by ethylene but not at all by oxygen. Treatments of seed with kinetin, potassium nitrate, ethephon, naphthalene acetic acid, hydrogen peroxide, or thiourea, as well as various scarification treatments, had no dormancy breaking effect. Stratification at 5 C for 100 days in water resulted in only 30% germination while stratification in 10-3 M GA3 for 20, 40, 60, and 100 days prior to germination in GA3 produced 50, 57, 72.5, and 75% germination, respectively, in 6 weeks. Germination in 10-4 M abscisic acid following stratification inhibited germination. Excised embryos germinated readily in GA3 but not in water. Following 24 hours leaching, the embryos germinated equally well in water and GA3. The dormancy appeared to be an inhibitor imposed embryo dormancy.
23432763|Phomopsis seed decay is a major cause of poor soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] seed quality in regions where the climate is warm and humid during and after seed maturation. Increasing pubescence density on soybean plants may increase retention of moisture in pods and seeds, and thereby influence seed infection by Phomopsis longicolla Hobbs. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of increased pubescence density on seed infection by P. longicolla and germination. Near-isogenic lines of two soybean cultivars, Clark and Harosoy, differing in pubescence density (normal vs. dense) were evaluated for seed-borne disease in 12 environments across four years (198588) in Maryland, Pennsylvania and Ohio. There were no significant differences between normal and dense pubescence isolines for seed infection by P. longicolla in nine environments and seed germination in 11 environments. In three environments where significant pubescence effects on seed infection were found, infection varied depending on the genetic background into which the dense pubescence gene has been introduced. Dense pubescence was generally associated with delayed maturity (nine of 12 environments) and increased plant height (eight of 12 environments). There was also slightly greater lodging in the plants with dense pubescence than in the normal pubescence isolines (four of 12 environments). Growing dense pubescence soybean in the eastern United States should not increase the potential for seed disease problems due to P. longicolla.
23432700|Effects of crop rotation on cold test germination of corn were studied using soils from one origin. Absolute germination percentages were only slightly influenced by crop rotation. Previously cropped soils did not give lower germination percentages than did soils that were never cropped with corn before. Soil moisture content influenced germination percentages of corn in the cold test to a great extent. Results obtained in the present study showed reduced germination in soil above 34% waterholding capacity.
23432768|Descriptions and drawings of seeds not illustrated in Agriculture Handbook 30 are provided for the following 14 grass species: Aegilops cylindrica Host, Amphibromus neesii Steud., Briza minor L., Calamovilfa longifolia (Hook.) Scribn., Chloris verticillata Nutt., Deschampsia danthonioides (Trin.) Munro ex Benth., Eriochloa aristata Vasey, Koeleria cristata (L.) Pers., Microstegium vimineum (Trin.) A. Camus, Muhlenbergia racemosa (Michx.) B.S.P., Panicum clandestinum L., Sorghastrum nutans (L.) Nash, Taeniatherum asperum (Simonkai) Nevski, Ischaemum rugosum Salisb.
23432933|Four laboratory tests were evaluated for their ability to predict the potential field emergence of snap beans (Phaseolus vulgaris L.). Standard germination, accelerated aging, cold soil test and conductivity test were conducted on commercial seed lots and the results were correlated with seedling emergence in two field plantings in 1982 and 1983. Cold test showed the highest significant correlation with all four field plantings followed by the conductivity tests. The accelerated aging and the germination test results correlated with the field emergence of the first planting in 1983. However, when the field emergence from 1982 and 1983 was combined and averaged across the two planting dates the accelerated aging test correlated with the field emergence. In a separate study conducted in 1983, seeds of 'Flo' were artificially aged for 0, 1, 2, 3 and 4 days. The values of cold and conductivity tests followed by the germination test were highly correlated with the field emergence.
23432710|Seeds of slash pine (Pinus elliottii Engelm. var. elliottii) were aged at 41 and 45C for periods ranging from 0 to 288 h, and their fatty acid composition during accelerated aging (AA) was analyzed to determine if a relationship existed between fatty acid changes and loss of seed germinability. Myristic, palmitic, stearic, oleic, linoleic, linolenic, arachidic, cis-eicosenoic, and eicosadienoic fatty acids were found in slash pine seeds subjected to AA at 41C. These same fatty acids, with the exception of myristic acid, were present in seeds aged at 45C. Two unknown fatty acids were detected at both temperatures. The saturated fatty acids fluctuated with no definite trend over time during AA at 41C, while linoleic and linolenic acids decreased with increasing period of AA. At 45C AA, saturated and unsaturated fatty acids significantly declined after 192 h. Loss of vigor as determined by percent germination preceded declines in fatty acids at 45C AA, while, at 41C, decline in fatty acids was accompanied by loss of vigor. Correlation analysis showed significant relationship of percent germination with total saturated and total unsaturated fatty acids after 48 and 96 h of AA at 41C.
23432787|Poor seedling survival reduces the effectiveness of revegetation efforts utilizing woody plants. Seedling survival might be increased by faster post-germination growth. To explore the relationship between germination rate and post-germination growth, we studied four species of woody plants that are important to western range and forest lands, and that exhibit different embryo morphologies. The seeds were germinated using standard methods. Germination and seedling axial elongation were measured daily for 30d. Data were analyzed by linear regression. Mean germination time was 11.3, 7.9, 3.8 and 1.3d for Cercocarpus montanus, Pinus ponderosa, Purshia tridentata, and Artemisia tridentata, respectively. Post-germination cumulative growth was significantly related to time-to-germination through 10d of seedling growth for Artemisia, Purshia and Cercocarpus, and through 15d of growth for Pinus. The regression line was positive for Purshia and negative for the other species. The results imply that time-to-germination might be used as a basis for culling inferior germinants/seedlings of several species of woody plants, however, it is most likely to be successfully applied to Pinus, or to seeds with similar embryo morphology.
23432917|Seeds of cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L., cvs. 'SP 37', 'Coker 312', 'Coker 310', and 'Coker 201') were obtained from plots treated with 0, 0.035, 0.07, and 0.14 kg/ha of diflubenzuron [1-(4-chlorophenyl)-3-(2,6-difluorobenzoyl) urea] at Lubbock and New Deal, Texas and Santa Fe and Sanford, Florida, respectively. Seed viability was determined by the standard germination test and seed vigor was determined by accelerated aging and the cold test. Diflubenzuron did not adversely affect seed viability or vigor in cotton. 'Coker 312' seeds from plots treated with 0.035 and 0.07 kg/ha of diflubenzuron produced a higher percentage of normal seedlings than did control seeds following accelerated aging. Germination, emergence and seedling height of 'Coker 310' from plots treated with all rates of diflubenzuron were significantly greater than for control seeds in the cold treatment. The results of standard germination test of 'Coker 310' seeds from plots treated with 0.14 kg/ha and with 0.07 and 0.14 kg/ha of diflubenzuron following accelerated aging were also higher than those of the control seeds.
23430400|Samples from 140 commercial seedlots of Penngift crownvetch produced by one producer over the period 1968 to 1974 inclusive were measured to determine seed weight and packing density (volume weight). Mean weight per 1,000 seeds at 10% moisture was 3.657 g and seeds per kg 273,600 (124,400 seeds/lb). Mean packing density was 0.795 g/cc. For all seedlots combined, weight/1,000 seeds, packing density, percentage hard seeds, and percentage total germination (ready germination plus hard seeds) were significantly correlated at the 1% level. Seedlots produced during years with above normal rainfall during the growing season and below normal accumulated heat units and solar and sky radiation were somewhat lower in content of hard seeds and total germination than lots produced during years with normal to below normal rainfall and normal to higher than normal accumulations of heat units and solar and sky radiation.
23432683|An automated seedling length measurement analysis has been developed for use with a CASAS (Computerized Automated Seed Analysis System), in which a seed germination test sample is scored for both germination and vigor (as indicated by seedling or seedling part length). The methodology of the analysis is applicable to most major crop seeds. Seedlings from paper towel or sand type germination tests, or cold tests may be analyzed. A microcomputer was interfaced to a hand potentiometric caliper via an analog/digital converter. The caliper measures the length of normal seedlings, and a hand button switch is used to log the measurement in the computer. Enumeration of the counts was used to determine standard germination values. Means of seedling numbers measured, percent seedlings per replicate and analysis, and mean seedling length in cm are computed. Use of the automated analysis, compared to a manual equivalent analysis, resulted in a 50% savings in analyst time. The computer program is in the BASIC language.
23432691|Imbibition, the uptake of water by the dry seed, involves absorption of water by cell wall and protoplasmic macromolecules, i.e., proteins and polysaccharides, wherein water molecules are "held" by electrostatic forces such as hydrogen bonds. The movement of water into the seed is due to diffusion and capillary action with water moving from a region of higher to lower water potential. Of the three components of seed water potential, i.e., osmotic potential, matric potential, and turgor pressure, it is the matric potential of cell walls and their contents which is primarily responsible for imbibition. Permeability of the testa, or seed coat, is a major factor controlling the rate of water uptake. Although necessary, imbibition is a period of peril: rapid uptake of water may cause imibibitional injury, cold temperatures may cause chilling injury, anaerobic conditions may lead to accumulation of toxic chemicals, and leaching of cellular constituents into the soil may stimulate microbial attack. Low vigor legume seeds with permeable seed coats are especially susceptible to imbibitional injury. The imbibition period offers opportunity as well as hazard. Seeds may be primed for increased vigor by imbibing and then drying back. High membrane permeability during early imbibition may facilitate insertion of germination-promoting and anti-pathogen chemicals into seed tissues. This review covers: The physical process of imbibition, the seed coat as a protection against imbibitional injury, membrances during imbibition relative to seed vigor, leachates as indicators of vigor, and use of the imbibition period to improve vigor.
23432751|A float-sink technique to separate seeds by density differences is described. Mixtures of hexane and chloroform were used to obtain solutions of 0.66 to 1.47 g/cc, respectively. Wheat (Triticum aestivum L. 'York-star') and lettuce (Lactuca sativa L. 'Ithaca') seeds were separated into density fractions of 1.30 to 1.45 g/cc in 0.05 increments and 1.12 to 1.18 g/cc in 0.02 increments, respectively. Seed protein content and density were positively correlated in wheat. No phytotoxicity was observed from the organic solvents. Seeds of five tree species were separated into two density fractions. The cutting test was performed to determine the percent filled seed. The more dense fraction in all species had the greatest percent filled seed.
23430404|The three-parameter Weibull function can be used to compare germination responses and to quantify the differences for use in statistical analyses. Data from germination of several lots of white oak and sweetgum were used to illustrate how the Weibull parameters reflect quantitative differences in seed vigor. Besides vigor comparisons, other possible uses of the Weibull are in tests of prechill treatments, chemical treatments, and varietal or geographic seed source differences.
23432943|Three experiments were conducted to measure effects of preharvest sprouting of two soft white and two soft red winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivars on germination, storability and field performance in 1985 and 1986. Eight levels of sprouting were studied. At higher sprouting levels, seed of red cultivars maintained germinability better than that of white cultivars for the first 6wk. After 8wk, no differences in germination occurred. Exposure of unthreshed heads to moisture caused sprouting, accompanied by a gradual decrease in germination of the white cultivar Augusta. The red cultivar Hillsdale resisted sprouting and maintained a high germination level for 12wk of storage. As number of sprouted seeds increased, germination decreased. Seeds of the red cultivar Hillsdale, with sprouting damage up to a split in the pericarp over the embryo could be safely stored for 3mo and planted without affecting field performance. However, any sprouting damage significantly reduced the yield of the white cultivar, Augusta.
23432750|Seeds of fescue (Festuca arundinacea L.) perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne L.), sericea lespedeza (Lespedeza cuneata Dum. - Cours.), and red clover (Trifolium pratense L.) were germinated in a slurry of various concentrations of woodchip-newspaper mulch. The germination percentage of all species except fescue was reduced in this media. The water was removed from the mulch (leachate) and germination of red clover and lespedeza seed was reduced in the mulch alone. No reduction in germination with the leachate was noted. The mulch contained high concentrations of boron and germination of all species was reduced when germinated in similar concentrations of boric acid alone. Under field conditions, all species tested gave an equal amount of vegetative cover with all mulch rates. After 5 months, over 70% vegetative cover was obtained and this increased to over 90% in 1 year.
23432916|Most of the cottonseed (Gossypium hirsutum L.) delinting done on the High Plains of Texas uses the anhydrous hydrochloric acid procedure. Approximately 900 kg are delinted in each batch. A modified batch procedure was developed to accommodate the small sample sizes (e.g. 10-5000 g) often used for experimental purposes. The small sample procedure was considered representative of the technique that most commercial operations utilize. A small scale anhydrous hydrochloric acid delinting system was designed for this study and tested in the laboratory. It was concluded that, utilizing this system, an acid exposure time of 8 min provided the best compromise between ease of lint removal and minimum seed damage. Times in excess of 8 min reduced germination (37 % at 16 min) while times less than 8 min did not facilitate complete lint removal.
23432814|This study was conducted to measure the rate of seed deterioration of canola under different storage conditions and evaluate different methods of measuring deterioration. Seed lots of spring canola cultivar, Topas, and two winter cultivars, Liborius and Libravo, were artificially aged to produce sub-lots of three different quality levels. All lots were stored for two years under two environments: 5C/75% RH and 22C/30% RH. Standard germination, cold tests, and conductivity tests were used to determine seed deterioration after 4, 10, 17, and 24 months of storage. As the initial quality of seed decreased, its relative storability decreased. The results of all three quality evaluation tests for all lots, with some exceptions, did not decrease significantly during the first 10 months of storage. A gradual decline in seed quality occurred during the following 14 months. All tests were suitable for assessing canola seed quality. The results of all tests were significantly correlated with each other. The study demonstrated the importance of testing the quality of artificially aged seed lots stored for more than ten months under such storage conditions.
23430393|Sixty-three soybean cultivars were grown in the laboratory under high intensity light and in the field. Six cultivar specific seedling pigmentation patterns were observed. Variation in pigmentation patterns due to the effect of different light intensities and nutrient solutions were detected. Results indicate that identification of seedling pigmentation patterns is a valuable approach for differentiating soybean cultivars.
23432734|A program using a programmable calculator and printer has been developed in conjunction with a ratio analysis procedure to speed tolerance evaluation of two component turfgrass mixtures.
23432718|Indian ricegrass (Oryzopsis hymenoides (Roem. & Schult.) Ricker) exhibits two types of seed dormancy: mechanical, which persists as long as the seed coat is not ruptured, and physiological, believed to be a result of low levels of endogenous giberellins in freshly harvested seed. Six accessions were tested for germination with lemma and palea present (intact seed) and absent (naked seed). Seeds were planted on blotter paper and prechilled for 4 wk at 5C before the 3-wk 15C(9 h)/5C(15 h) test. Seeds were less than six mo old when evaluated and exhibited more physiological dormancy than mechanical dormancy. Differences among the accessions were observed for germination of intact and naked seed. Germination of intact and naked seed from the same accession was positively correlated. Mechanical dormancy and physiological dormancy were negatively correlated across accessions.
23432828|Eight oat (Avena sativa L.) cultivars were characterized using polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis to obtain protein, esterase, and peroxidase banding patterns from unimbibed seed extracts. A total of ten protein bands were resolved and six (Clintford, Clintland, Dal, Lang, Rodney, Stout) of the eight oat cultivars could be differentiated from each other based on the presence or absence of protein bands. Noble and Otee possessed identical protein banding patterns and could not be separated from each other. Esterase electrophoresis revealed a total of four bands for the cultivars. The cultivar Noble contained bands B, C, and D while Otee possessed bands A, B, and C which enabled separation of these cultivars. Thus, a combination of protein and esterase electrophoresis allowed a complete differentiation and characterization of the eight oat cultivars examined. Peroxidase electrophoresis revealed a total of three bands for all cultivars with the exception of Dal which possessed only one band. This study demonstrates that electrophoresis of seed proteins can be used to supplement present field testing techniques for the characterization and rapid identification of oat cultivars.
23432918|Seeds of Drymaria arenarioides Humboldt & Bonpland ex Roemer & Schultes, recently named a noxious-weed seed in Arizona, and seeds of D. pachyphylla Wooton & Standley, as well as achenes and capitula of Crupina vulgaris Cassini, a recently introduced weed into Idaho and California, are described and illustrated.
23432922|Russian olive (Elaeagnus angustifolia L.) seeds normally require about 90 days prechill to initiate germination and another 28 days at the germination temperature for evaluation. An accurate analysis can be made by soaking the seed seven days in water to make the pericarp soft enough to cut then excise the embryo and remove the inner seed coat. Results will be complete in ten days from the beginning of the soak. The same results may be obtained with less intensive treatments but longer germination periods. Removal of 2 mm of each end will provide results in about 17 days and removal of only the radicle end requires about 21 days for a complete analysis.
23432934|Descriptions and drawings of fruit structures of the Apiaceae (Umbelliferae) not illustrated in Agriculture Handbook No. 30 are provided for three taxa: Anthriscus caucalis Bieb., Torilis arvensis (Huds.) Link subsp. arvensis and T. arvensis (Huds.) Link subsp. purpurea (Ten.) Hayek. Additional drawings are included of the polymorphic fruit of Torilis nodosa (L.) Gaertner. Nomenclatural corrections are provided for six taxa in this family which are illustrated in Agriculture Handbook No. 30 (U.S. Department of Agriculture 1952).
23432712|Freeze-thawing has been established as an effective method to decrease hard-seededness and increase germination of alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.), but has not been adopted commercially. Since this technique appears to offer technical advantages compared to many other methods of scarifying alfalfa seed, this study evaluates the major costs involved in it's commercial application. An experiment with two cultivars (Apica and Barrier) and different numbers of freeze-thaw cycles indicated that maximum germination occurred following two freeze-thaw cycles. A freeze-temperature experiment with the two cultivars indicated that -61C was as effective at increasing germination as -80C following one freeze thaw cycle and nearly as effective following three freeze-thaw cycles. A freeze temperature of -61C has an advantage over -80C, as liquid carbon dioxide can be used to obtain this freezing temperature. Freezing equipment exists that can use either liquid carbon dioxide or liquid nitrogen and this could be incorporated as an additional step into a process where seed is being moved about on conveyors. For liquid carbon dioxide, the carbon dioxide represents about 73% of the cost while the capital cost and maintenance of equipment represents about 27% of the cost. The greater the quantity of seed scarified, the lower is the unit cost of scarification. Our estimates of cost suggest that treatment of 1,000,000 kg of seed or more annually would result in an increase of about 1% in the retail value of the seed.
23432738|Seeds may carry disease on their surfaces or within their tissues and may act as vectors introducing plant diseases to uninfested areas. Fungi are the most commonly isolated pathogens of seeds. Various methods for the detection of seed borne fungal pathogens including incubation tests, non-cultural techniques and virulence tests are discussed.
23432785|Seed dormancy levels of 18 and 12% were detected for Indy and Meyer cultivars of crambe (Crambe abyssinica Hochst. ex. R.E. Fries), respectively, when tested according to current Association of Official Seed Analysts (AOSA) "Rules for Testing Seeds". Prechill treatments at 5C and 10C for 5d were unable to break seed dormancy completely. Gibberellic acid at the 0.05% concentration and 0.2% KNO3 as substrate moistening agents reduced seed dormancy levels to 0 and 2%, respectively. However, gibberellic acid did increase abnormal seedlings and reduced seed lot viability (germination plus dormancy percentages). Distilled water and 0.2% KNO3 as substrate moistening agents produced comparable seed lot viabilities. The latter treatment, however, reduced dormant seed levels to 2% compared with 12% for distilled water. Presence of light during the germination testing period, compared with absence of light, increased 4d germination percentages but not 7d germination percentages. Temperature regimes of 20C and 25C did not affect germination significantly across all viability parameters. The dormancy mechanism of crambe seems related primarily to physical restrictions.
23432732|A technique using a semi-selective medium and serological test (SSMS) was developed for the detection of internally-borne Xanthomonas blight bacteria in bean seed. The semi-selective medium permitted the growth of Xanthomonas to high population levels in the presence of contaminating organisms while the serological test was highly specific for Xanthomonas bacteria. The new technique consistently detected greater levels of internal Xanthomonas contamination in bean seed lots than the seedling injection technique presently used by the Michigan Department of Agriculture.
23432736|Seed transmission, important in introducing, selectively perpetuating, and randomly distributing plant pathogens, is affected by the physical environment and by seed and soil microflora. Transmission may be prevented by seed-field culture and inspection, seed indexing and separatory procedures, chemical treatment, and thermotherapy. Aerated-steam treatment, followed by polyethylene glycol "invigoration" is a promising new method of eradicating seed-borne pathogens.
23432681|Increased use of the California deserts has resulted in plant and soil degradation which can best be minimized by revegetation with shrubs. However, due to the erratic seed production of desert plants, seed may not be available for collection from the wild when needed. Therefore, native seed banks are necessary to assure availability. In this study seed from 22 species of Mojave desert shrubs were placed in four storage environments. Dried seed were placed in glass jars that were hermetically sealed and then stored at -15C, 4C, or room temperature, and the results compared to typical warehouse storage conditions. For most species, germination of seeds from warehouse storage was significantly lower. After 9 years, the long term germination percentages for most of the species was unchanged or increased from the original values under one or more sealed storage conditions. Hard seededness was induced in Cassia armata when dried and sealed at all temperatures. Sealed storage of dry seed rather than storage temperature appeared to be the most important factor for increasing the storage life of the seed.
23432802|Tests with the ASA-610 and ASAC-1000 Automatic Seed Analyzers indicate that these instruments can provide valid estimates of pine seed quality based on electrical conductivity of seed leachate. Conductivity data can be used to predict laboratory germination of loblolly pine to within 6.5 percent and slash pine to within 7.2 percent. Significant correlation of conductivity measurements with nursery emergence was also demonstrated. Limited data indicated that the method should also be satisfactory with other pine species.
23432638|Several factors with potential to cause variations in results of the conductivity test for soybean seed (Glycine max (L.) Merr) vigor were investigated. The ion content in the filter paper increased the conductivity and its effect depended upon the kind of filter paper and the volume of filtrate used. The use of tap water increased the conductivity compared to the use of deionized water. The variation in the size of a soaking container had no significant effect on the conductivity. When seeds were soaked at various temperatures, conductivity increased as temperature increased. The seed size showed a slight effect in one seed lot but not in another. Low initial seed moisture content (8.8% or less) and injured seed caused a significant increase in the conductivity. The conductivity test for soybean seed vigor should be conducted without filtration and with uninjured seeds having a moisture content of 13% or higher.
23432748|A Dynamic Conductometric Analysis of peanut seed (Arachis hypogaea L.) has been developed. The analysis is programmed into the CASAS (Computerized Automated Seed Analysis System), and requires a three hour time period. A linear model of total ionic leaching from the seed is derived from a sample under analysis, for comparison with a general population model for commercial acceptability based upon a 70% germination equivalence criterion. After initial startup and calibration of the equipment, the analysis is under control of the CASAS.
23432647|Vegetable production has changed in the last 300 years because of improvements in the quality (germination and vigor) of seeds. When seeds are placed in the hostile environment of the soil, as short an interval from planting to emergence is essential to reduce the stresses placed on the seed from temperature, moisture, microorganisms and pesticides. In the production of transplants, seed germination and especially vigor are also important for subsequent uniform and vigorous growth in the field. New planting equipment and techniques have been developed which are more efficient and/or precise requiring less labor for both vegetable transplanting and seed sowing. Modern planters have evolved which place seeds at a uniform depth and coverage without appreciable seed damage. Planters now employ belts, discs, vacuum, and cups as mechanisms for depositing seeds from the planter box to the soil furrow. The gel seeding (fluid drilling) technique offers many options for increasing seed germination, uniform emergence and higher yields. Continued research related to stand establishment will insure future improvements in the establishment and yield of vegetables.
23430398|Several lots of squash (Cucurbita pepo L.) seeds submitted for germination testing rotted during the tests. Rhizopus, Mucor, Pythium, Fusarium and Chaetomium were isolated from infested seed lots. A Pythium subsequently identified as P. aphanidermatum caused the rot in germination tests. Noninfested Butternut squash seeds planted in sand infested with P. aphanidermatum oospores were also killed.
23430401|The blotter and guaiacol agar methods were used in a referee test to detect Helminthosporium oryzae and Trichoconis padwickii in 10 lots of rice seeds. The guaiacol agar method was judged to be more sensitive than the blotter method for detection of H. oryzae since a significantly higher percentage of this fungus was detected with it. However, the guaiacol agar method was not more sensitive than the blotter method for the detection of Trichoconis padwickii. The standard deviations were only slightly smaller for the guaiacol agar method than for the blotter method. With both methods, mean percent infection differed significantly among laboratories and indicated that neither method was completely satisfactory for detecting these two pathogens.
23433004|Six time-of-harvest trials were conducted over a 3-year period to define the optimum time at which the seed crop of onion (Allium cepa L.) should be harvested. Individual plots were harvested over a 7- to 16-day period beginning when the first capsules dehisced. Yield increased as either a linear or quadratic function of time. Percent shattering umbels increased nearly logarithmically over time, whereas average individual seed weight increased linearly. Actual losses due to shattering were inconsequential until 25% or more of the umbels were losing seed. Growers were harvesting 2 to 5 days earlier than optimum. There was no advantage to selectively harvesting shattering umbels, compared to a once-over harvest at 25-30% shattering. Seed quality was not significantly affected by harvest date.
23432729|The variability among peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.) seed germination tests performed at three locations was determined. Relationships between laboratory germination tests and field emergence were also assessed using samples from 10 seed lots. The mean seed germination percentage of the three laboratories was significantly different (p = 0.01) and ranged from 78.3 to 85.7%. The variation in germination percentage of subsamples from the same seed lot was also significantly different (p = 0.01) as measured by the three laboratories. The differences in germination percentage betwen samples from the same seed lot ranged from 2 to 16%. This variation among samples within a seed lot indicated that a single test of seed germination is not a reliable estimate of the quality of a seed lot. Seedling emergence in the field averaged about 20% less than the mean of the germination tests. Field emergence ranged from a low average of 43% to a high average of 71%. Average field emergence and the mean of laboratory tests were significantly correlated (r = 0.88), indicating that the mean of several germination tests is an excellent indicator of relative seed quality of a peanut seed lot.
23432685|The effect on seed yield and quality of 2-week periods of moisture treatment during seed development and maturation were investigated. Seeds of soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] cv. Elf were sown 3.5 cm deep at a rate of 9 seeds/m of row in rows 0.17 m apart in 1980. Plots three m2 were formed when plants had 3 nodes on the main stem. Moisture treatments began when plants bore a flower at the node immediately below the uppermost node having a completely unrolled leaf. Plot treatments were of 2 weeks duration and consisted of 2.5 cm of irrigation per week or covering with a portable plastic house to withhold moisture. There were four, 2-week treatment periods during flowering and seed development and two replicates of each treatment. At maturity, plots were sampled to estimate pods per plant, seeds per pod, abortions within the pods, yield and seed size. Seed germination was estimated by sandbench emergence and seed vigor was estimated by the accelerated aging test. Field emergence of seeds was determined during June, 1981. The growing season of 1980 was the hottest on record because of the number of days that the temperature attained or exceeded 32.2C. Seed quality was good as measured by sandbench emergence and field emergence, but the accelerated aging test showed that seed from plots where moisture was withheld during pod fill were low in vigor. The last two treatment periods occurred during pod fill and the plots covered by plastic houses had significantly less yield than the corresponding irrigated plots. The covered plots at the end of pod fill were the only plots with a significantly smaller seed size. The basal seed most frequently aborted. It was concluded that reduced moisture during seed development reduced yield by reducing seed number and size.
23432728|The ASA-610 is a new commercial instrument developed to rapidly predict seed germination. This study was designed to determine whether the ASA-610 could predict soybean germination and which test variables influence ASA-610 results. A positive correlation (+0.96) existed between ASA-610 current (A/seed) values and conductivity (mhos/seed) results indicating that the instrument monitors seed leachate. Standardization studies using salt solutions revealed that cell fluid level and solution temperature altered ASA-610 determinations. Analyses of soybean seed evaluations showed that soak temperature, seed size, and initial seed moisture content influenced instrument performance. The seed treatments captan, captan + thiram, and Vitavax 200 failed to have an effect on ASA-610 results. In a test of fifty soybean seed lots, the ASA-610 accurately predicted the germination of seeds which were high (>80%) or low (<20%) in germination but not of seeds which germinated between 60 and 80%.
23432961|Prehydration of soybean seed resulted in an average 3.6% increase in germination for 100 soybean lots. The prehydration treatment resulted in an increase in moisture ranging from 2.2% to 8.3% with a similar response to prehydration occurring at all moisture levels. The response to prehydration decreased as mechanical damage levels increased. The initial moisture content of the seed had no effect on the response to prehydration. Water content increased in the seed at a linear rate of 0.2% per hour in the prehydration chamber under the conditions of this study. This contrasted sharply with imbibition of 4.5% per hour for non-prehydrated seed on Kimpak. The prehydration of soybean seed prior to germination may reduce or prevent imbibition injury.
23432975|Thirty-four 1984 pea cultivars and 43, 1985 cultivars were evaluated for the presence of hollow heart. All cultivars had the disorder, but incidence and severity were variable. For 1984 seedlots, percent severe hollow heart ranged from 4-75% with a mean of 30%, and for 1985 seed, the range was 5-78% with a mean of 36%. Soaking seed for 24 hr in deionized water and incubating for 6 days in damp germinating paper produced maximum symptom expression. Significantly more hollow heart developed when seed was incubated at -1/3 bar than either -1 or -3 bars. There was also more hollow heart in seed incubated at 7C than at 24C. However, at 24C there were more rotten seed. Differences in percent severe hollow heart at various incubation temperatures could be explained by the number of rotted seed at each temperature. The development and importance of hollow heart depends on the percentage of predisposed seed and soil moisture during germination.
23432731|Procedures for characterizing seed lots (i.e., by mean and variation of days to germination, peak germination date, and other useful properties) are commonly complicated because frequency of days to germination does not have a normal distribution. A procedure is presented for minimizing this problem. Tests of a seed lot of Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii (Mirb.) Franco) subjected to differing stratification periods and germination temperatures indicated that it is the rates at which seed embryos develop toward germination rather than days to germination that have a normal distribution. Consequently, by transforming cumulative percentages of germination to probits (a means for converting a normal sigmoid curve to a straight line) and fitting a straight line to probits regressed on rates rather than on daysor by plotting percentages on probit-scaled graph paperthe resulting intercept and regression coefficient can be used to easily calculate all the standard properties for characterizing a seed lot.
23432742|Seedsmen attempt to reduce seed-borne pathogen levels by planting disease-free stock seed and careful inspection of both seed fields and seed lots. When seed-borne pathogens are detected the seed lot may be treated, destroyed or specially labeled. Seedsmen cannot guarantee absolute freedom from seed-borne pathogens.
23432695|The distribution of soybean seed size is presented and one method of dividing soybean seed lots into sizes is discussed and evaluated. Number of soybean seed per pound (kg) ranged from slightly over 3,000 per pound (7,000 per kg) to slightly over 4,000 per pound (9,000 per kg) both within cultivars and among cultivars. Seed were sized with a precision grader. Damaged caused by sizing was negligible.
23432903|Soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merrill) seed must be stored and the quality maintained from harvest in the fall until planting time in the spring. These studies were conducted to evaluate the relationship between laboratory tests of vigor and the storage potential of soybean seed. Three seed lots of each of 4 cultivars ('Williams', 'Cutler 71', 'Dare', and 'York') were selected to provide lots that were high in viability as measured by standard germination but had a range in vigor as measured by the accelerated aging germination test. All seed lots were stored at 10.5 and 13.5% moisture content (MC) in controlled environment chambers. The temperature in the chambers was adjusted to follow the average temperature from November 1 to August 1 for the central U.S. Samples were collected for viability and vigor determinations after 1, 4, 6 and 9 months in storage. The initial standard germination of all lots except one was above 85% while the initial accelerated aging germination ranged from 33.5 to 95%. The initial rate of germination (4-day count) was closely related to the standard germination but averaged 5 percentage points lower. The accelerated aging test was most sensitive to deterioration during storage followed by the rate of germination and the standard germination was the least sensitive. The accelerated aging test was an excellent predictor of storability and the relationship between the initial accelerated aging germination and deterioration during storage was similar for all cultivars.
23432745|Eight seed lots of Johnsongrass had a mean germination of 46% after a 35-day standard germination. The tetrazolium tests, however, indicated a mean germination potential of 71% for these eight seed lots. A 30-min scarification with sulfuric acid (95-98%) induced nearly complete germination within 10 days. The germination mean was 73% for acid scarified seeds. Seeds scarified between sandpaper resulted in similar germination levels, but testing results varied significantly among experiments. ATP content in imbibed seeds was increased prior to radical protrusion by acid scarification. Acid scarification not only shortened the testing time but also produced more uniform results than the standard germination method. Thus, the acid scarification procedure should be considered in the AOSA rules for testing johnsongrass seeds.
23432990|Heterogeneity testing of commercial seed lots before bagging could substantially reduce the number of "stop sales" on seed lots having numbers of noxious weed seeds or percentages of weed or other crop seeds in inspection samples out of tolerance with labeled numbers. However, because of high costs of testing and presently unavoidable delays in obtaining results, heterogeneity tests are seldom made. Experiments were run to determine what might be done to increase the use and usefulness of heterogeneity tests. Poorly-, intermediate-, and well-mixed batches of alfalfa and rape seed were tested for heterogeneity with respect to indicator seeds (seeds identical to the principal seed but marked for easy detection). Alfalfa seed was also tested for heterogeneity with respect to three weed seed species. Two controllable variables were found to be critical to the outcome of a heterogeneity test: (1) average number of indicator or weed seeds per sample and (2) the number of samples examined in a heterogeneity test. Small numbers in either category can lead to wrong declarations of homogeneity in lots that are truly heterogeneous. The hypothesis is advanced that indicator seed heterogeneity test results can be used as a reliable predictor of heterogeneity with respect to weed seed count, hard seed percentage, or count or percentage of any other seed lot component or attribute. Heterogeneity testing of a seed lot with indicator seeds can lead to a high degree of probability that seed tags will correctly describe the seed in each bag of the lot.
23432977|A selective review is presented of some major historical events in the development of seed pathology with an emphasis on testing techniques. Most references are to those scientists who were members of the Association of Official Seed Analysts from the early twentieth century onward. Special recognition is given to the works of several plant pathologists at the University of Minnesota and in the Danish Institute of Seed Pathology.
23432699|Prechilled and unchilled seeds of three conifer species (douglas fir, DF; scotch pine, SP; and sitka spruce, SS) were incubated over a range of constant temperatures (10 to 40C). Three weeks prechilling broadened the range of temperatures over which DF seeds could germinate, and for all three species improved the maximum percentage germination at some, if not most temperatures. None of the seeds ever germinated at 40C. Prechilled seeds were always quicker to germinate than unchilled seeds. The results are discussed in relation to various authors' concepts of 'relative dormancy'; and their practical significance to seed physiologists, plant producers, and geneticists is considered.
23430402|Western wheatgrass, Agropyron smithii (Rydb.), seed was tested by four seed treatment methods differing from the standard germination procedure (darkness, alternating temperature) to determine their relative effectiveness in breaking dormancy. Exposure to a constant 24 C temperature or to fluorescent white light strongly inhibited germination. Exposure to far red light produced an effect similar to complete darkness. Red light was partially effective in breaking dormancy, but exposures exceeding eight minutes delayed the release from dormancy. A 0.2% KNO3 solution was more effective in breaking dormancy than either gibberellic acid or kinetin. Tetrazolium tests showed that none of the above treatments were completely effective in breaking dormancy.
23432827|The standard germination test is the one test that is being widely used by every seed testing laboratory to check the viability of seeds. However, significant variations in results exist between laboratories. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of various amounts of moisture in the paper towel on standard germination test results. Germination of various varieties and lots of hybrid sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L. Monech) and hybrid corn (Zea mays L.) seeds were evaluated using water at 2, 2.5, and 3 times the weight of paper towel. In all cases, the lowest amount of water gave maximum germination and as the water increased in the medium germination decreased. In sorghum, the decrease in germination at the 2.5 moisture level was 1 to 6% and at the 3, 5 to 9%. In corn, this effect was more dramatic. Germination reduction at 2.5 level was 0 to 27% and at 3, 6 to 35%.
23432716|Germination of green needlegrass (Stipa viridula Trin.) seed was increased 24% by acid scarification with 95% sulfuric acid for 6 to 12 mins. Additions of 0.055% gibberellic acid (GA3) and 0.46% tetramethylthiuram disulfide (Thiram) as the blotter moistening solution produced germination equal to tetrazolium viability (86%). This treatment improved germination by removing seed dormancy and controlling saprophytic fungi. The average germination response of 10 seed lots treated in this manner was 86% after only 14 d in dark conditions at 15-30C compared to 42% following a 14 d prechill (5C) and 21 d germination (15-30C) as recommended by the Association of Official Seed Analysts Rules for Testing Seeds. Acid scarification, GA3, and Thiram fungicide treatment is an accurate method for obtaining green needlegrass seed germination which is equal to tetrazolium viability.
23432650|Cotyledonal- or transverse-cracking (TVC) in certain cultivars of snapbean, Phaseolus vulgaris L., seeds, clearly evident during germination, places affected seedlings at a competitive disadvantage. TVC is an inherited trait and occurs across cell walls of cotyledons rather than along the cell walls. This study examines the hypothesis that TVC results from the swelling of storage proteins in seeds during imbibition. One hundred seeds were selected randomly from each of 17 seed lots. Each bulk sample weighed 225 g; 15 cultivars were represented. Separated proteins were subjected to electrophoresis under denaturing and non-denaturing conditions, and the molecular weights of the different protein bands were determined. Differences in patterns of polyacrylamide gel electrophoretograms of proteins from resistant and susceptible cultivars are reported. Different protein banding patterns were identified and correlations with the TVC phenomenon were attempted. There were visual differences between banding patterns of resistant and susceptible cultivars, although it is not clear which protein bands are associated with the TVC phenomenon. The technique requires further refinement before plant breeders can use it to screen for TVC-resistant snapbean cultivars.
23432697|Seeds of Pterocarpus macrocarpus Kurz collected in Thailand in December 1984 from six different provinces were investigated for germination in response to variable temperatures. Different germination patterns were observed among the six stands. The sensitivity and tolerance to temperatures during germination, which were determined by the area within 80% germination isolines, appeared under the influence of ecological climate rather than geographic location. A wide range of temperature tolerance was observed among stands from cool and warm climates. Seeds originating in the warmer climate tolerated high germination temperatures better. However, all seed lots were identical in their optimum temperature regime (30/25C day-night alternation) for maximum total germination with the overall mean of 91%. They also shared a wide common range of temperature preference for 80% total germination. High total germination (80%) was obtained over a wide range of alternating temperatures, but was restricted to a narrower range under constant temperatures.
23432762|Germination and vigor problems in sorghum are usually related to weathering during the post-maturation, pre-harvest period and to drought induced seed immaturity. Weathering and immaturity also lowers the specific gravity of the seeds. To examine the effects of weathering and immaturity on the internal morphology of seeds varying in specific gravity, sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] seeds (Wheatland cv.) from panicles harvested at physiological maturity, exposed to field weathering or to artificially induced immaturity, were separated into high (>1.30) and low (>1.20) specific gravity levels. Scanning electron microscope photomicrographs revealed cavities and profuse fungal growth in the placental sac area and in the embryo of seeds from the intense weathering treatment and low specific gravity class. Similar cavities were observed in the immature seeds. Endosperm cells in the immature seeds were not completely filled with starch granules, and the epithelial and aleurone layers were not fully developed. The presence of cavities reduced the density of the seeds, consequently their specific gravity was lower. Seeds of low specific gravity also occurred among those harvested at physiological maturity, and they also exhibited morphological features of weathered or immature seeds or both.
23432803|The procedure known as prechilling, or stratification, to break dormancy in tree seeds is discussed in terms of its effects on germination capacity and germination rate. Treatment prolongation and poor control of prechilling temperature have been blamed for premature germination before the seeds can be sown, rendering the seeds useless to the nursery grower. Over the last decade, several independent researchers have demonstrated that by changing and controlling seed moisture content during refrigeration, premature germination can be delayed or eliminated and, in some species, germination capacity can be considerably increased. The main effect is on speed of germination, believed to be brought about by germination synchronization. Plant growers should find the new procedures advantageous since they permit prechilled seeds to be stored for varying periods, thereby providing flexibility in the initiation of the prechilling treatment as well as the safe storability of treated seeds when sowing is delayed. Practical-scale methods of application have yet to be developed.
23432798|Poorly developed root growth of White Lightning, a heterozygous sugary enhancer (se) sweet corn, has been observed in roll towel germination tests. A large percentage of seedlings would be considered abnormal due to this poor root growth. Soaking seeds for 8 hours in water and/or placing fewer seeds per roll towel improved root growth and percent normal seedlings. Leachate from White Lightning was assayed on lettuce seed germination and growth. Lettuce root growth decreased linearly with a logarithmic increase in leachate concentration while percent radicle emergence was not affected. Autoclaving the leachate further reduced lettuce root growth which indicated that the inhibitor was not heat labile and not microbial in nature. Leachate of White Lightning decreased root growth of other corn genotypes. White Lightning seed quality was reduced by mechanical injury, accelerated aging or freezing. As seed quality decreased, electrical conductivity increased and percent germination decreased and lettuce root growth was reduced.
23433003|A questionnaire concerning variety testing was sent to 66 official AOSA seed testing laboratories. Forty-four of the responding seed laboratories routinely test vegetable and/or agricultural seeds and 86 percent of these laboratories engage in variety testing. The variety testing procedures most widely used by AOSA member laboratories are evaluations of morphological seed characteristics and certain "quick" chemical tests. More AOSA seed laboratories conduct variety tests on samples of wheat, barley, oat, soybean, cowpea, sorghum, and Kentucky bluegrass than on samples of other kinds.
23432764|A field experiment was conducted for two years at Lexington, KY to evaluate the effect of variation in the time of seedling emergence within the plant community on soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] yield. Variation in time of emergence was created by planting alternate seeds in the row either 4 or 7 d after the initial plantings. In the control treatment, all seeds were planted when the initial plantings were made. All seeds were planted by hand in 0.76 m rows at a population of 26 plants m-2 (51 mm between plants in the row). Plants from the initial and delayed plantings were harvested separately. The rate of dry matter accumulation from R1 to R5 (g plant-1 d-1) of the delayed plants in the mixed plantings was less (32 to 74%) than the rate of plants from the initial planting. The same effect was shown for yield (26 to 76% less) and seeds per plant. However, the rate of dry matter accumulation per unit area (g m-2 d-1), yield per unit area and seeds per unit area were the same for all treatments. Thus, variation in time of emergence, which created differences in plant size and individual plant yield in the community, had no effect on yield per unit area in soybean.
23432937|Field weathering of soybean, [Glycine max (L.) Merr.], seeds, after harvest maturity, reduces seed germination and increases disease incidence. Therefore, the objective of this paper was to determine if there were genotypic differences in pod and seed moisture of three Maturity Group III and Maturity Group IV cultivars. Two replicates of each cultivar were grown to harvest maturity in 1979 and 1980. Twenty pods were collected from each plot at 800 and 1300 h daily, shelled, and pod and seed weight determined gravimetrically. Dry weight of pods and seeds was determined after 24 h at 100 C. Moisture content of soybean pods and seeds fluctuated daily. Moisture content of pods and seeds of Group III cultivars was significantly higher at the 800 h sampling time than at the 1300 h. Significant differences between pod moisture content of Group III cultivars were observed in 1979, which was a wet harvest season. These results agree with previous laboratory observations and suggest that there is genotypic variability in pod moisture uptake.
23432800|A computer-based information retrieval system for personal bibliographies is described. The system consists of two interactive computer programs, written in Microsoft BASICA for the IBM-PC-XT3 personal computer, that enable the user to enter and edit (LIT), search (SEARCH), and print in a convenient format, bibliographic files. The linkage of this system to a mainframe computer to accommodate large bibliographic files is also discussed.
23432666|Germination of seeds from Arachis species is low after 20 yr in storage. This study was conducted to develop procedures to recover germplasm from deteriorated seeds. Embryonic axes from deteriorated seed of Arachis species were cultured on a medium containing MS salts, Gamborg's B5 vitamins, 30 g/L sucrose, and solidified with 8 g/L agar. Six to 8-week-old plants regenerated from embryonic axes were transplanted to Jiffy pots in the greenhouse. Nineteen samples of deteriorated seed between 20 and 31 years old were evaluated. Shoots were recovered from 31% of the seeds by in vitro rescue of embryonic axes and from 2.4% by germination in the greenhouse. In the same experiment, plants were recovered from 15 to 31-yr-old deteriorated seed of A. burkartii, A. glabrata, A. hagenbeckii, A. monticola, A. pusilla, A. rigonii, A. villosa, and A. villosulicarpa by in vitro rescue of embryonic axes, while no plants were recovered from seed of the same 15 seed lots germinated in the greenhouse. The in vitro rescue of embryonic axes can significantly increase the recovery of germplasm from deteriorated seed of Arachis species.
23432719|Outbreaks of angular leaf spot, caused by Phaeoisariopsis griseola, occurred in a number of Michigan seed fields of the 'Montcalm' red kidney bean cultivar. Seed assays revealed low amounts of P. griseola in 8 of 20 (40%) and 6 of 59 (10%) seed lots from 1982 and 1983, respectively. Infestation sites in seeds of cultivars 'Charlevoix' and 'Montcalm' red kidney bean were primarily in the hilum, whereas in seeds of cultivar 'Laker' navy bean they were in both the hilum and seed coat. Greenhouse and field studies established that seedborne P. griseola is transmitted to the developing seedlings and thus may serve as a source of inoculum in Michigan. Viability of P. griseola in seeds decreased over time.
23432819|Seed extracts of 16 annual ryegrass (Lolium multiflorum Lam.) cultivars and 35 perennial ryegrass (L. Perenne L.) cultivars were analyzed by polyacrylamide disc electrophoresis for esterase activity. One esterase isoenzyme stained darkly in annual samples and faintly in perennial samples. The staining intensity of this esterase band appeared to be unaffected by seed quality, linked to growth habit and independent of seedling fluorescence. It was possible to use the staining intensity of this esterase band to detect mixtures of annual and perennial seeds. Electrophoresis of seed proteins followed by staining for esterase shows promise as a procedure for distinguishing between seeds of annual and perennial ryegrass.
23432753|Watermelon seeds from 32 commercially grown lots and from 5 lots obtained from locally grown fruits harvested from wilted vines in one field (PV lots) were surface-disinfested, dissected and the seed coat halves and cotyledons plated on Komada's selective medium. Forty-four isolates of Fusarium spp. were single-spored and identified as either F. oxysporum, F. solani, or F. moniliforme. Commercial seed lots had lower infection levels than the PV seed lots. Fusarium oxysporum was isolated more frequently from seed coats than cotyledons, while an equal number of F. solani and F. moniliforme isolates was obtained from each. Twenty-one of the seed isolates were screened for pathogenicity to watermelons in three different tests. All 21 isolates caused some necrosis of 'Black Diamond' seedlings on water agar plates and eight isolates caused severe necrosis. Four isolates caused a 5-day delay in seedling emergence from soil in flats in the greenhouse, while three isolates caused a decrease in seedling emergence. Only one isolate caused significant damping-off of seedlings. None of the isolates repeatedly caused vascular wilt in older plants.
23432649|Rapid and effective techniques that would complement the seedling fluorescence test are needed to differentiate annual (Lolium multiflorum Lam.) from perennial (L. perenne L.) ryegrass. Electrophoresis procedures have been successful in separating the two species, but differences between them are often based only on band intensity. The purpose of this work was to develop an electrophoretic procedure that would, by presence or absence of distinct bands, differentiate between annual and perennial ryegrass, detect mixtures of the two species, and possibly detect ploidy level of annual ryegrass. Proteins were analyzed using sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). Seventeen annual, three intermediate (L. hybridum Hausslen), and 14 perennial cultivars were tested. The annual and intermediate cultivars possessed characteristic protein bands at Rf 0.71 and 0.73 that were not found in any of the perennial cultivars. Moreover, bands were present in the perennial cultivars at Rf 0.80 and 0.88 that were absent or very faintly stained in the annual and intermediate cultivars. The banding patterns for annual and intermediate species were similar. To test for contamination of perennial ryegrass seed lots with small percentages of annual ryegrass seed, mixtures of annual and perennial ryegrass seed were made in concentrations of 0, 1, 3, 5, 10, 25, 50, 75, and 100% annual seed. Annual bands were visible in the samples containing 25% or more annual seed. Densitometer scans could detect the annual bands in the mixtures containing 10% annual seed, but lower percentages of annual seed could not be detected in the bulk seed mixtures. Protein extracts of individual seeds were electrophoresed to determine whether species mixtures can be detected on an individual seed basis. When individual seeds were used, the resulting banding patterns were different than those produced from bulk seed extracts from the same cultivar. Furthermore, no two seeds within a cultivar showed the same banding patterns. However, the characteristic annual bands at Rf 0.71 and 0.73 were still evident in most single seeds from annuals. Likewise, the characteristic perennial bands at Rf 0.80 and 0.88 were normally present in individual seeds of the perennials. Individual seeds could be identified by either or both pairs of these bands or bands in other zones. The SDS-PAGE procedures used in this study were successful in differentiating between annual and perennial ryegrass. Bulk seeds and single seeds of the two species show distinct species-specific banding patterns. Perennial ryegrass seed lots contaminated with 10% or more annual ryegrass seed could be detected by analyzing bulk seed. No characteristic banding patterns were detected that would allow determination of ploidy level among annual ryegrass cultivars.
23432962|Addition of ascorbic acid (250 ppm), phosphoric acid (250 ppm) and gibberellic acid (GA3, 200 ppm) to germinated seed-gel mixtures of tomato and pepper prior to planting affected the emergence and growth of the seedlings. Ascorbic plus gibberellic acid significantly increased the emergence rate, but not dry weight of pepper; while gibberellic acid in combination with either phosphoric or ascorbic acid significantly increased the emergence, but not dry weight of tomato. Germination of tomato seeds significantly increased their emergence as indicated by ERI values compared to dry seeds; but no difference was observed with pepper seeds. There were differences in the performance of the gels. The starch polyacrylate polymer performed the poorest; while the aluminum silicate and hydroxyethyl cellulose performed equally well.
23432663|Diaspore has previously been defined in the botanical sense, as a disseminule; especially one specialized for dispersal. That definition implies that diaspore morphology reflects the single function of dispersal. The plant science literature is reviewed, and ample evidence presented to show that diaspore structure and function reflect many facets in the processes of seedling recruitment. The functions reviewed include dispersal, protection, seed positioning and orientation, seed fixation, moisture adsorption, light filtering and regulating seed respiration. An enlarged definition of diaspore is offered to reflect a multiple-function concept.
23432812|Germination of shrunken2 sweet corn seed is subject to poor reproducibility when tested by different seed laboratories. This project sought to measure reproducibility and improve reproducibility by providing light during germination testing. A referee germination test with six sweet corn seedlots was performed in 11 laboratories under light and in darkness. Three of the lots gave rise to highly variable germination percentages and inconsistent ranking of lots among laboratories. This resulted from unstable proportions of seedlings with primary leaves less than  the length of the coleoptile, abnormals under AOSA rules. Between-laboratory standard deviation ranged from 4 to 25% (avg. 14 %) when germination was performed in the dark, and from 2 to 21% (avg. 10%) when germination was performed under light. In the dark, laboratory means ranged from 42 to 82% (avg. 75%). Under light, laboratory means ranged from 65 to 90% (avg. 77%). We suggest that the AOSA "Rules for Testing Seeds" be changed to require that sweet corn seed be germination-tested under light.
23432923|Coated (pelleted and taped) and raw carrot (Daucus carota L.) and onion (Allium cepa L.) seed from commercial sources were subjected to 6 storage conditions varying from 21 C, 90 % relative humidity (RH) to 5 C, 40 % RH) for periods ranging from 6 months to 3 years. Three types of packaging material differing in moisture-barrier properties were used. Samples were removed periodically for moisture and germination tests. Both coated and raw seed stored in paper envelopes at 21 C, 90 % RH were dead within 12 months while those stored at 5 C, 40 % RH retained their initial germination for 3 years. At intermediate storage conditions coated seed stored as well as, or in some instances better than, the raw seed controls.
23432826|Hypocotyl lengths of soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merr.) cultivars 'Clark' and 'Mandarin' were reduced by planting 7 cm deep in sand at 25 C; the former did not emerge in 9 days but the latter did. Application of Co2+ solution, however, promoted emergence of Clark seedlings. The weight of the sand increased hypocotyl diameter of both cultivars, increased total hypocotyl fresh weight of Mandarin without affecting that of Clark and enhanced ethylene production of Clark seedlings more than that of Mandarin. The rate of ethylene production of Clark seedlings also increased more than that of Mandarin seedlings when hypocotyl elongation was restricted by means of a rubber stopper. The morphological effects of physical stress on hypocotyls were duplicated by application of ethylene; however, hypocotyl elongation of Clark was affected by the inhibitory action of ethylene more than that of Mandarin.
23433005|An anniversary is an excellent time to inventory previous accomplishments and to plan for the future. The other speakers in this symposium have provided an overview of the goals, accomplishments and shortcomings of their respective societies for the past 75 years. It is my intent to examine the present status of the Association of Official Seed Analysts (AOSA) and to position this association for the future. To accomplish this I plan to (1) re-examine the objectives of AOSA and discuss their application to seed testing in the 80's, 90's and the year 2000, (2) provide short term recommendations for improving seed testing within the next 10 years, (3) take a look ahead over the next 25 years and (4) submit a proposal for seed research in the future.
23432662|Tetrazolium tests, soil cold tests, and standard germination tests were conducted on 40 lots of grain sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench]. Based on tetrazolium evaluations, seeds were grouped into high vigor, medium vigor, low vigor, and non-germinable categories. The high plus medium vigor categories of tetrazolium were significantly correlated at the 0.01% level of probability with emergence in soil cold test (r=0.936). The high plus medium plus low vigor categories were significantly correlated at the 0.01% level of probability with standard germination (r=0.900). These results demonstrate the potential of the tetrazolium test for assessing seed quality in sorghum.
23430394|Sixteen clones of western wheatgrass were studied to determine differences in seedling growth traits. The data from 11 of the clones were correlated with the agronomic performance in a field test to ascertain if seedling growth traits in the laboratory could be used in selecting clones with better field performance under irrigated conditions. Three of the clones were significantly better (P < .05) than the check in germination, plumule growth, radicle growth and total growth. No significant associations of plant breeding value were found between these four seedling traits and six field agronomic performance characters. Although the test with this limited number of clones did not suggest the use of seedling growth traits as an aid in selecting agronomic characters, it indicated the presence of significant differences in the growth from seed of different clones. It appears that further studies of these differences as to their relationships with range emergence and establishment should be conducted.
23430399|Effects of B-nine (N, N-dimethylaminosuccinamic acid) and Phosfon D (Tributyl-2, 4-dichlorobenzyl-phosphonium chloride) on weed seed germination were studied. These growth retardants were applied at 1, 10 and 100 ppm concentrations on seeds kept in petri dish germinators. B-nine applied at 1 ppm concentrations decreased germination of cocklebur and pigweed seeds and at 100 ppm, decreased germination of pigweed and wild mustard seeds. Other concentrations of the growth retardants did not exhibit significant differences compared to the control. Phosfon D decreased germination of cocklebur and pigweed seeds at all concentrations applied. The time required for germination was increased about a week in cocklebur seeds when treated with 1 ppm B-nine and in pigweed seeds when treated with 1 and 10 ppm of B-nine.
23432936|A dot-immunobinding assay (DIA) was evaluated for detecting Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae, P. s. pv. atrofaciens, Clavibacter tritici, and Xanthomonas campestris pv. translucens in wheat seeds. Cross-reactions between antigens and antisera of P. s. pv. syringae and P. s. pv. atrofaciens negated the use of DIA in distinguishing these incitants. X. c. pv. translucens provided positive readings only when cell concentrations were 105 colony forming units (CFU/ml) or higher. tritici cells were also detectable at 105 CFU/ml. The DIA was most valuable in identifying X. c. pv. translucens colonies after the seed leachate was plated on semi-selective media. The assay was not reliable for detecting low cell numbers directly from seed. Cell concentrations of X. c. pv. translucens declined only about 10-fold in wheat seeds after three years of storage.
23432686|Chemical clarification of composition of the bracteole restraint on Atriplex gardneri (Moq) Dietr. seed germination, and development of a pre-treatment to enhance germination were the objectives of this study. Following acid hydrolysis of bracteole cell walls, analyses revealed 17% lignin, 33% glucose, 29% xylose, 7% arabinose, 1% galactose and less than 1% mannose. Delignified and lignified cell walls were incubated with cellulase supplemented with B-D-glucosidase, crude-hemicellulase and polygalacturonase separately and in combination. Sequential treatment of lignified cell walls by cellulase followed by polygalacturonase induced 14% degradation. All other treatments produced less than 10% degradation. Dramatic improvement in enzymatic degradation was noted after delignification of the walls. Cellulase hydrolyzed 35%, hemicellulase 25%, and polygalacturonase 36% of delignified walls. Intact seeds delignified at 70C in acidic sodium chlorite, however, failed to germinate. Germination percentages of intact seeds exposed to delignified or delignified/enzyme pre-treatment at 35C were less than other common germination pre-treatment. Standardization of concentration, time, and temperature of incubation solutions, however, should improve seed germination responses.
23432825|Three mathematical formulas are used to determine whether a three-component turfgrass seed mixture is within the tolerances set forth in the "Tolerance Section" of the Rules for Testing Seeds. The calculations are not affected by changes in other crop seed, weed seed, or inert matter percentages. This procedure is accurate and is easily programmed on microcomputers or programmable calculators.
23432715|Cuphea is a potential source of medium-chain triglycerides for manufacture of soaps, pharmaceuticals, and nutritional products. Indeterminate flowering and seed shattering are wild-type characteristics that cause difficulty in determining the proper time to harvest for maximum yields of seed and oil. This study was undertaken to determine when seeds reach maturity in two Cuphea species with potential for domestication. Seed maturity is defined as that stage of development when maximum dry weight and oil content are first attained. Seed development of C. lutea Rose and C. wrightii Gray was studied from flowering to maturity in two greenhouse and one field experiment by harvesting seeds from tagged flowers at frequent intervals and mearsuring dry weight, oil, and moisture content. Maximum seed dry weight was attained by 19 d after anthesis in the 1986 greenhouse studies. At this time, dry weight was 2.62 mg seed, moisture content was 420 g H2O kg-1 fw (42%), and oil content was 240 g oil kg-1dw (24%) in C. lutea. Measurements for C. wrightii were 1.89 mg seed-1 dw, 320 g H2O kg-1 fw (32%) moisture, and 310 g oil kg-1 (31%) oil content. Simple correlation coefficients for oil and dry weight were 0.97 and 0.96 for C. wrightii and C. lutea, respectively. Similar relationships between seed quality components were evident in the 1985 greenhouse and field experiments. Seeds of C. lutea were mature at the time of emergence from the calyx tube in the field. Waiting beyond this time for green seeds to turn yellow or brown before harvesting will not increase seed dry matter or oil content, and would lead to increased shattering and seed loss.
23433002|This paper tells about the widespread publicity, following archaeological excavations, given to "mummy" grain and its viability, identification of ancient grain as to species, findings of wild species, species grown in ancient times and conclusive evidence that mummy grain is nonviable. A brief reference is made to the longevity of the lotus seeds from Pulantien and to herbarium and buried seeds, and to present knowledge of seed viability under controlled conditions, to imbibition, dormancy and hard-seed effects on longevity and a glimpse into Alladin's lamp of seed immortality.
23432747|A computerized automated seed analysis system (CASAS) has been developed which enables an analyst to estimate physiological parameters of seed and compare the values obtained with standards for seed of known quality. The system classifies the sample as commercially acceptable or substandard, based upon equivalence to a standard germination test. The system is designed upon the S-100 bus. System design, hardware, software, and applications are discussed.
23432833|The Tolerance Tables for Noxious Weed Seeds have several deficiencies: they lack a clear statement of objective; they are based unnecessarily on an inaccurate approximation; and they allow for subjectivity as to when and how to retest a seed lot. This subjectivity greatly affects the probability that a seed lot will be declared out of tolerance. These deficiencies are discussed and graphs based on theoretical calculations are presented which describe estimated probabilities that a lot will be declared out of tolerance under several circumstances in which a seed lot is labeled correctly, or at least labeled in good faith.
23432799|Two field experiments were conducted at the University of Illinois Agronomy and Plant Pathology South Farm to determine the effects of defoliating corn (Zea mays L.) inbreds on seed quality as determined by warm germination and cold germination tests. In the first experiment, defoliation treatments of 0, 50, and 100% were applied by hand to inbred lines FRMo17rhm and FR27rhm at the 7-leaf, 14-leaf, anthesis, late milk, and soft dough stages in 1982 and the 7-leaf, 14-leaf, anthesis, milk, and dent stages in 1983. In the second experiment, defoliation treatments of 0, 50, and 100% were applied to six inbreds (Fr27rhm, FRMo17rhm, FR632, MS71, FR25, and FR16) at the 14-leaf stage. The effect on seed quality was influenced by the level of defoliation, growth stage when the defoliation treatments were applied, genotype, and environmental conditions. Partial defoliation never affected warm germination and in only a few cases affected cold germination. Reductions in germination scores in response to complete defoliation were associated with reductions in kernel size. The inbred most sensitive to defoliation, FRMo17rhm, was also the inbred which produced the fewest total leaves.
23432786|Crepe cellulose paper utilized as a germination substrate has traditionally been manufactured from virgin wood fibers. This study was initiated to compare Kimpak (K-22) (manufactured with virgin fibers) with Bleached Custom Wrap (BCW) (manufactured with recycled fibers) as germination substrates for corn and soybean seed. Standard, sand, and cold germination tests all incorporated crepe cellulose paper as a substrate. Standard germination tests on corn initially showed BCW to produce a result 2% lower than K-22 did; however, an additional experiment of 10 seed lots found no significant differences. Sand and cold test normal seedling percentages were not significantly different between substrates. Soybean standard, sand, and cold test germination responses were not significantly different across any parameter regardless of substrate. Physical comparisons of substrates showed no significant difference between K-22 and BCW water-holding capacities. According to the data from seed lots tested in these studies, it seems that when used as a substrate for corn and soybean germination tests, BCW provides germination responses similar to those of K-22.
23430397|Germination of Indian ricegrass [Oryzopsis hymenoides (Roem. & Schult.) Ricker] seeds was enhanced by scarification with concentrated sulfuric acid for 35 min. Additions of 100 M GA3 and 40% maneb further increased scarified seed germination by reducing post-harvest dormancy and controlling contamination from storage fungi. Seeds treated in this manner germinated at 86% after only 7 days at 30 C compared to 6% germination following 49 days at 15 C as recommended by the AOSA Rules for Testing Seeds. These techniques appear viable alternatives to methods currently employed for the germination and testing of Indian ricegrass seeds.
23432770|Storage in liquid nitrogen (LN2) has the potential of providing "indefinite" preservation of seed germplasm. Determining the tolerance of seeds of a given species and/or cultivar to LN2 cooling and subsequent rewarming is the first step in establishing the feasibility of LN2 storage. Seeds of 29 crops were directly exposed to LN2 (-196 C) for periods up to 180 days. Of all species exposed, only sesame (Sesamum indicum L.) and flax (Linum usitatissimum L.), indicated any loss of viability after LN2 storage. Damage to sesame seeds was reflected by increased seedling abnormalities (stubby roots), which appeared to be associated with the cooling/rewarming cycle. Flax seeds were physically damaged (cracking of the seed coat and embryonic tissue) resulting in reduced germination. Survival of the selections during LN2 cooling and rewarming and a lack of damage to seed viability during extended storage strongly supports the feasibility of LN2 preservation of many species.
23432978|Seeds of 33 forest species belonging to 28 genera in 12 families of tropical trees were studied for health. The blotter, agar, and sand medium methods were used. The common genera of fungi found associated with the seeds were: Fusarium, Colletotrichum, Botryodiplodia, Cladosporium, Phoma, Phomopsis, Macrophoma, Cephalosporium, Aspergillus, Penicillium, Curvularia and Chaetomium. Details about their distribution and description are discussed in the text of this paper.
23432820|Three forb and eight shrub species native to the Rocky Mountain and Northern Great Plains regions were evaluated for seed viability with 2, 3, 5-triphenyl-2H-tetrazolium chloride (TZ). Specific staining techniques were developed for each species. Treatments include presoaks, seed coat puncture, seed coat removal, and seed bisection. Species tested and their viability values were Achillea millefolium L., (yarrow) 86%; Linum lewisii (pursh), (Lewis flax) 93%; Ratibida columnifera (Nutt.) Wooten and Standley, (prairie coneflower) 72%; Amelanchier alnifolia (Nutt.) Nutt., (serviceberry) 84%; Amorpha fruticosa L., (indigobush) 94%; Artemisia tridentata Nutt., (big sagebrush) 66%; Ceretoides lanata (Pursh) Howell, (winterfat) 91%; Prunus virginiana L., (chokecherry) 98%; Purshia tridentata (Pursh) DC., (antelope bitterbrush) 100%; Rhus trilobata Nutt., (skunkbush sumac) 91%; and Symphoricarpos albus (L.) Blake, (snowberry) 68%.
23432957|Seeds of 27 cantaloupe cultivars were stored 23 years at 10, 21, and 32 C. At 32 C seed of only three cultivars showed any signs of life. Seeds of only two and three cultivars gave 0% germination after storage at 10 and 21 C, respectively. At 21 C seeds of two cultivars germinated over 50% in 10 days. Seeds of numerous cultivars showed dormancy and germinated later. At 10 C seeds of four cultivars germinated better than 75%. Differences in seed longevity among cultivars were variable.
23432989|Seventy-three seed samples of 23 soybean (Glycine max [L.] Merr.) cultivars produced in Florida in 1986 were analyzed for germination, vigor [tetrazolium (TZ) test], and presence of seedborne pathogens. Thirty percent of the samples contained from 5 to 20% (high) infection by Colletotrichum truncatum (Schw.) Andrus & Moore. Infection was mainly restricted to the seed coat, but 50% of the seed lots with high levels of infection had embryo infection from 1 to 10%. Although C. truncatum infected fewer seeds than Phomopsis spp., it caused more damping-off, regardless of seed vigor level. As the pathogen incidence increased, the amount of damping-off also increased. These detrimental effects were observed on the standard germination test (rolled paper towels) which also was severely affected by high levels of Phomopsis spp. The TZ test values were not affected by the presence of these fungi, thus giving the highest percent germination. Sand emergence provided estimates of germination for seed lots with high incidence of infection by C. truncatum that more nearly simulated what would be expected in the field under ideal conditions. Seventeen percent of the samples contained high levels (7 to 33%) of infection by Cercospora kikuchii (Matsu. & Tomoyasu). This pathogen was almost exclusively restricted to the seedcoat. An antagonistic effect was observed between C. kikuchii and Phomopsis spp. infecting soybean seeds: the higher the level of seed infection by C. kikuchii, the lower the seed infection by Phomopsis spp. No detrimental pathogen effects of seed infection of this pathogen were observed on germination, emergence, and vigor of soybean seed with the natural levels of C. kikuchii infected seeds used in this study.
23432773|Sorghum, sudangrass, and sorghum-sudangrass cultivars were grown in the laboratory in sand culture under high light intensity. Cultivar related differences in coleoptile and shoot pigmentation were observed in seedlings denied nutrient applications. Seven cultivar specific seedling pigmentation patterns were recorded. Results indicate that identification of seedling pigmentation patterns is a valuable approach for differentiating sorghum cultivars. Inconsistent variations in seedling pigmentation patterns were detected when nutrients were applied to the seedlings.
23432774|The ASA-610 is a commercial instrument which reportedly has the capability to rapidly monitor soybean quality. To evaluate this capability, soybean seeds were subjected to increasing levels of mechanical impaction (1, 4, and 8 drops from 3 m) and accelerated aging (41 C,  100 % RH) for varying periods of time (1, 2, 3, 4 days). In both instances, as soybean seed deterioration increased, the ASA-610 detected changes in seed viability as measured by percent germination, seedling dry weight, and hypocotyl length. These results suggest that the ASA-610 can accurately assess soybean seed quality and may be useful in commercial seed testing programs.
23432991|Seed size separations have been traditionally used to increase seedling vigor. Examination of naked caryopses of a combination of size and density separations revealed that seed mass could be used to describe the physical dimensions of the caryopsis and embryo of 'Critana' thickspike wheatgrass (Agropyron daystachyum (hook.) Schribn.). No differences were found between hydration curves for small-light (S-L) and large-heavy (L-H) seed separations for whole seeds, naked caryopses, endosperm and embryos. Greater respiration rates were found for L-H seeds than S-L seeds on a seed basis for whole seeds, naked caryopses and embryos.
23432639|The seed coat serves as a protective covering for the embryo. Germination of soybeans (Glycine max (L.) Merr.) can be greatly affected by condition of the seed coat and cotyledons. In this study, laboratory germination of Forrest soybeans, a cultivar with small seeds, was reduced to about 40% of that of visibly undamaged seeds when the seed coat was cracked or shattered even though the cotyledons were intact. Field germination was reduced to about 15% of that for visibly undamaged seeds. Transverse breaks across the cotyledons caused similar decreases in laboratory germination. When breaks were completely through the cotyledons, laboratory germination was reduced and limited to those pieces with an embryonic axis intact. This study supports previous work indicating that criteria for pure seed of soybeans should be revised.
23432973|Fall seedings of meadowfoam (Limnathes alba Benth.) in Oregon are usually delayed until early to mid-October because of the possibility of inducing secondary dormancy from earlier planting in warm soils. This experiment was conducted under laboratory conditions to determine if secondary dormancy is induced by warm temperatures or other environmental conditions that are unfavorable to meadowfoam seed germination. Imbibed seeds of dormant and non-dormant lots of 'Mermaid' meadowfoam were subjected to high temperature, light and reduced oxygen treatments for 0, 3, 6, 9, 12 and 15 days. Following treatment, the seeds were removed to optimum germination conditions to assess the degree of dormancy induced by the three environmental factors. Exposure of imbibed seeds to 25C induced secondary dormancy in both lots after 3 days' exposure. Germination of the non-dormant lot decreased from over 90% to less than 30% after 15 days of warm temperature. Exposure to continuous light was effective in inducing dormancy after 6 days of treatment. Imbibition in an atmosphere of 2% oxygen decreased germination after 9 days' treatment. Reduction in germination by light and reduced oxygen was only moderate, but a greater degree of dormancy would be expected with longer exposure. These experiments confirmed that exposure of meadowfoam seeds to factors that inhibit germination will induce secondary dormancy after a minimum exposure period. In the field, induction of dormancy and reduced seedling emergence would be expected if soils are warm or poorly aerated. While light would be a factor in field establishment only if surface-seeded, it should be avoided in laboratory germination tests to obtain maximum germination.
23432648|QSeed (Quality Seed) is a set of BASIC language programs designed to keep records on seed production, conditioning, testing, inventory control and sales. These records are then accessed for management and quality assurance operations. Crops and varieties being produced are defined, as well as addresses of growers and buyers. One program keeps records on production fields, inspections, yields and related items. At harvest QSeed maintains records on each bulk storage bin, the removal of seed from the bin, conditioning information including the assignment of lot numbers, and the location of lots in bagged storage. QSeed follows the flow of the seed and develops an inventory, seed testing and quality assurance file for each lot. If more than one seed analysis has been made, the results of all seed testing information can be displayed in the form of a histogram. When a sale is made QSeed first displays lot records on the screen and then allows selection of a specific lot. When the selection is made, an invoice is printed, along with a load-out ticket and the adjustment of the bagged seed inventory. QSeed runs on many brands of microcomputers using the PC/MS DOS operating system.
23432682|A systems approach is described for developing and implementing training programs. The approach directs attention to the training needs of the laboratory and the individual. The system ensures that the design and implementation phases in the program are flexible, and adjust to experience through feedback mechanisms. This approach is being used by Agriculture Canada to redesign training programs for its analysts.
23432737|Although seeds are considered to be small entities in man's perception of his surrounding environment, they are themselves a planet in which a microbial world exists. This microcosm is exemplified by the soybean seed and its associated microbes. The understanding of the relationships involved now has been realized as is its impact on seed quality and performance.
23432658|Chemical treatment of navy bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) seed exposed to prolonged wet, humid weather prior to harvest improved germination more in cold and warm soil tests than in standard warm germination tests at all levels of quality between 56 and 97% germination. However, performance in all tests was improved by seed treatment, especially at lower quality levels. There was no consistent increase in performance after six weeks of storage under warm laboratory conditions. Both laboratory germination and field emergence were improved by most combinations and concentrations of seed treatment chemicals.
23432832|Corsoy 79 soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merr.) seeds were artificially aged by either a high-moisture, high-temperature (>90% RH, 42C) method or by a constant 12% moisture, high-temperature (42C method. Seeds were imbibed for up to 34 h, and ethanol evolution measured until radicle protrusion occurred. Ethanol evolution rates were greater for seeds with poorer viability and vigor, and the ethanol evolution peak rose with increased water uptake and aging. Seed moisture at peak ethanol evolution also varied with aging treatments. Peak ethanol levels did not occur immediately before radicle protrusion. Delay in the attainment of membrane integrity, which resulted in lost viability and vigor and an imbalance between glycolysis and the citric acid cycle, may explain observed patterns of ethanol evolution. It may be possible to use ethanol measurements as a rapid assessment of seed vigor.
23432963|Tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreb.) long has had a reputation as a poor-quality forage because of an assortment of toxicological problems experienced by animals grazing this species. Summer syndrome toxicity is associated with a seed-transmitted endophytic fungus (Epichloe typhina (Fr.) Tul., Acremonium coenophialum Morgan-Jones and W. Gams) which, in turn, is associated with pyrrolizidine alkaloid accumulation, especially N-formyl and N-acetyl loline. The objectives of this study were 1) to assay the major seed-producing areas and varieties in the U. S. for loline alkaloids and 2) to investigate the effect of age of seed at planting on loline alkaloid levels of seed harvested from these stands. Seed lots of the Kentucky varieties 'Kentucky 31' and 'Kenwell' contained much higher levels of loline alkaloids than the Oregon varieties 'Alta' and 'Fawn.' Certified 'Kenhy' seed produced from stands sown with recently harvested foundation seed high in loline alkaloid content tended to have much higher levels than seed produced by stands sown with seed stored 2 years or more. Differences between varieties and seed production areas are more likely due to cultural practices, length of seed storage, or historical factors than to strict genetic or location effects. The lower loline alkaloid levels resulting from establishment with 2-year-old seed is attributed to impersistence of the endophyte. Results suggest that other unknown factor(s) may contribute to a total loss of loline alkaloid accumulation capacity in seed only 3 months old.
23432693|Although the accelerated aging (AA) test has been widely used as an indicator of seed vigor, lack of standardization has resulted in variation in results. Experiments were conducted to evaluate the influence of the aging chamber and several testing variables on soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] seed germination following accelerated aging when using theinner chamber (tray) procedure. The basic aging procedure involved placing 40 g of seeds on a wire mesh tray suspended over 50 ml of water in the inner chamber (plastic sample box with lid). The inner chambers were placed on trays in an outer aging chamber for 72 h at 41C ( 0.5C) after which the seeds were planted for standard germination. Aging time, temperature and seed moisture interacted during aging to reduce seed germination. Temperature had the greatest effect on germination and 41C was a threshold of sensitivity for soybean seed. An aging time of 72 h at 41C provided excellent separation in vigor across seed lots; however, little deterioration occurred after 48 h and excessive deterioration occurred after 96 h. Relative humidity in the inner chamber reached 90% after 24 h and gradually increased to 95% by 72 h. Final seed moisture after aging ranged from 31-34% and was one of the most repeatable aspects of the test. Initial seed moisture levels ranging from 8.0 to 13.5% had little effect on final seed moisture; however, both initial and final seed moisture should be monitored during aging. Seed size influenced final seed moisture following aging, but could be controlled by determining sample size on the basis of seed weight (40 g) rather than seed number (200 seeds). Air temperature inside the inner chamber was influenced by opening the outer chamber door, the number of inner chambers per shelf and the location of shelves within the chamber. The effects of these factors were eliminated, however, by limiting the number of inner chambers to nine per shelf, placing shelves in the upper portions of the aging chamber and keeping the outer chamber door closed during the test. These results support the inner chamber (tray) accelerated aging system and identify methods for controlling several testing variables which improve the standardization of this test.
23432915|A need exists for learning the principles of seed testing and their application toward determining quality of seed. I believe there should be three courses offered at the college level. The first should deal chiefly with the identification and germination of agricultural and weed seeds as well as the basic mechanics of making purity and germination tests. Students in the second course should learn to identify the domestic grasses in the 14 tribes and the noxious weeds in the grass family and in 12 additional plant families. More technical aspects should be covered. The third course should emphasize identification of species and varieties of various chaffy grasses as well as certain species of Brassica. These three courses need to be integrated to give students an appreciation of seed quality as well as knowledge of the AOSA Rules and mechanics of seed technology.
23432733|A ratio analysis is used to determine whether a two component mixture of turfgrass is within tolerance. The procedure is not affected by changes in other crop seed, weed seed, or inert matter percentages; but it does take into consideration whether these values are within tolerance. The "Tolerance Section" of the Rules for Testing Seeds is followed; and the procedure is efficient, simple, highly accurate and adaptable to programmable calculator usage.
23432976|Seed-Lab, a software system developed at the Oregon State University Seed Testing Laboratory for managing seed laboratory information, is described. Seed-Lab shields the user from the complexities of database management by supporting menu driven inquiries. Specifically, Seed-Lab allows inquiries about customers, accounts, invoices, plant species, types of tests, seed samples, and test results. Furthermore, Seed-Lab supports several domestic and international regulations governing the computing and reporting of seed testing results. This system runs either on a single microcomputer or on a local area network of microcomputers and is portable to any other network capable of running the Novell NetWare operating system.
23432741|An increased understanding of the disease cycle of seed-borne plant pathogens can lead to more effective and efficient disease control schemes through improvement and integration of seed disease control practices.
23432694|The bulk conductivity test has shown potential as a quick, nonsubjective test of seed vigor and has been suggested for use in a wide range of crop species. This research was conducted to evaluate the seed and test variables which may influence the bulk conductivity test when measuring soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] seed vigor. Several experiments were conducted using seed lots which had a wide range in seed vigor but acceptable standard germination. Low initial seed moisture (<11%) significantly increased conductivity, however, there was little difference when seed moisture ranged from 11 to 18%. Water temperature must be maintained at 25C following the 24 h soak period, since a 5C change prior to evaluation significantly influenced conductivity results. Visual identification of mechanically injured and diseased seeds prior to testing was found to be subjective and inaccurate. Thus, the seeds used for the conductivity test should be randomly selected from the pure seed portion of the seed lot. Increasing the number of seeds tested from 25 to 50 seeds per replication reduced the coefficients of variation for the test from 19.0 to 9.8% when averaged over 20 seed lots. There was no increase in conductivity for intact seed infected with high levels of Phomopsis sp. or Cercospora kikuchii, however, moderately or severely fissured (diseased) seed showed high rates of electrolyte leakage. Fungicide seed treatment with Captan-80, Arasan-50 and Vitavax 200 had little effect on conductivity results, however, precautions must be taken when other fungicides or seed treatments are used. A bulk conductivity procedure is recommended which reduces the variability caused by testing variables and should assist in standardizing the vigor test across routine seed testing laboratories.
23432979|This study examined the fate of the pit on the abaxial surface of the cotyledon and that of the antipit on the inside surface of the seed coat. Samples of cotyledon and seed coat tissue from germinating and developing seedlings of soybean (Glycine max L. Merr.) were separated for scanning electron microscopy following initial fixation in glutaraldehyde. Holes which surrounded the antipit in seed coats of mature seeds were not observed after 1 day of imbibition. It is possible that these holes around the antipit collapsed and closed through the force generated by the expansion of the seed coat during imbibition. By 3 days of germination, the pit on the cotyledon surface changed from a concave to convex structure. Holes that appeared on the surface of the cotyledon separate from the pit area were formed by gaps between specialized cells. Later in seedling development, the specialized cells took on the appearance of guard cells and the holes stomates. No stomates occurred on the surface of the pit. It was concluded that the above structures may have some short term function in germination and/or seedling development.
23432813|Cool soil temperatures at planting slow chile (Capsicum annuum L.) seed germination and reduce stand establishment. Seed priming is a method used to increase the percent and rate of germination. This study was initiated to examine the effects of NaCl priming on total germination and the rate of germination under suboptimal temperature conditions. Seeds of 'Tam Veracruz' chile were primed at 23C for 5 days in double-distilled H2O, or 0.2, 0.4, or 0.6 M NaCl solution (equivalent to an osmotic potential of -0.89 MPa, -1.77 MPa, and -2.66 MPa, respectively). After priming, the seeds were dried on paper towels at 23C for 2 days. Treated seeds and nonprimed seeds (control) were then germinated in H2O in Petri dishes in a 15C or 23C incubator. Germination was recorded daily until no more seeds germinated for four days. The final germination percentage (FGP) and the germination velocity coefficient (GVC) were calculated to evaluate the treatments. Over 70% of the H2O-soaked seeds germinated during priming, and thus, were not used in the germination study. Priming had little effect on the FGP at either 15C or 23C, as all treatments (including the control) had germination percentages above 96%. The GVC of primed seed was greater than the unprimed control. This response was more pronounced at 23C than at 15C. Further, the GVC decreased as the NaCl concentration increased from 0.2 M to 0.6 M. These data would suggest that priming 'Tam Veracruz' chile seed for 5 days at 23C in 0.2 M NaCl would increase the germination rate at temperatures from 15C to 23C.
23432769|Birdsfoot trefoil has poorer seedling vigor than most pasture legumes. Lack of seedling vigor is often responsible for stand failure. Methods are needed which permit rapid screening of large populations in breeding programs for seedling vigor. We compared seedling length on a given day with speed of elongation (SE) as a criterion for estimating seedling vigor. Correlations of these two criteria were made with growth in the greenhouse to 6 weeks of age, with yield in the year of seeding, and with field vigor ratings. Seedling length on a given day was highly correlated with SE, but seedling length on day 3 accounted for more variability (highest R2 values) than other seedling length measurements when used with other vigor criteria in multiple regression analysis to predict field forage yields. Methods for measuring length on day 3 and for mass selection for seedling vigor are discussed. These techniques provide a simple rapid method for selecting vigor.
23432771|When coffee seeds are in an environment which does not contain microorganisms the endocarp inhibits germination. This inhibition is neither due to impermeability to water and gases nor to the presence of growth inhibitors but is probably caused by mechanical resistance.
23432673|Seed vigor testing has emerged as a routine method to test seeds for field performance capability. This development can be traced to deficiencies in the philosophy of the purpose of a standard germination test. Early terms included "driving force" and "germination energy" of seedlings to capture the concept of seed vigor. Yet, no organized approach to defining seed vigor or developing seed vigor tests was given until the International Seed Testing Association (ISTA) formed the first Biochemical and Seedling Vigor Committee in 1950. The Association of Official Seed Analysts (AOSA) established a Vigor Test Committee in 1961. Both committees provided the central leadership in vigor testing that culminated in the production of respective Handbooks. This review of the history of seed vigor testing focuses primarily on those events which occurred within AOSA since the inception of that first Committee in 1961 and documents the impetus and momentum that led to vigor testing as an accepted measure of seed quality.
23432766|Cooperative research was conducted between the University of Georgia, Coastal Plain Experiment Station and the Georgia Department of Agriculture, Seed Laboratory in Tifton to study the occurrence and frequency of twin and triplet peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.) seedlings. Twin and triplet peanut seedlings were easily observed following standard germination tests, however the occurrence of each was very low. For twins, estimated frequency was <0.01% and for triplets <0.001%. Progenies from individual twin and triplet plants did not exhibit any inherited polyembryony characteristics. Based on these findings, the potential to readily identify twin-derived haploids would not appear promising for a peanut breeding program.
23432680|Seed pathology, the area of plant pathology that deals with seedborne pathogenic microorganisms and viruses and the diseases that they cause, is one of the oldest areas of the parent science. However, it is only recently that its importance in agriculture has been fully appreciated. In this paper, several seedborne pathogens that cause important diseases of major horticultural crops with detection and control are discussed.
23432687|Sugarbeet (Beta vulgaris L.) seeds soaked in 50 times their weight of water for  to 8 days and air dried had faster rates of germination than washed or control seeds in laboratory tests at 38C. Water temperatures of 15 or 25C were superior to temperatures of 5 and 35C during soaking treatment. The beneficial effects of soaking were retained in storage for at least 60 days after treatment. Soaking or washing treatments resulted in higher germination than control seeds at all concentrations of salt tested. Seeds soaked in fusicoccin germinated at a faster rate than seeds soaked in water. Under high temperature conditions in the field, soaking treatments increased the rate of emergence, but not total emergence.
23432672|Numerous crops are maintained as clones in field, greenhouse or in vitro plant culture. Long-term germplasm conservation for these species is needed and may be accomplished by cryogenic preservation of seeds, pollen, and shoot tips or buds. Seed and pollen can be used to preserve genetic diversity of the crop. These two propagules from many clonal species are desiccation tolerant and survive low temperature exposure. Thus, methods already exist to apply long-term storage to certain crops. Cryopreservation of shoot tips or buds is needed for long-term conservation of the clone. Substantial progress has occurred in defining two-step cooling and vitrification protocols, such that application to certain plant collections is now possible and feasible. For example, long-term storage of apple has been initiated at the National Seed Storage Laboratory using dormant vegetative buds collected in winter from the National Clonal Germplasm Repository at Geneva, NY. Survival after cryogenic exposure was found in all lines tested to date, with cold-hardy lines exhibiting a greater percentage of viability. Cold-tender lines will require a more complex protocol. Vitrification (application of cryoprotectants followed by rapid cooling such that a glass forms within the cells) is an easier method to apply than two-step cooling. Survival was found with apices from many species. A practical project using vitrification to preserve mint is underway. Survival for some species, using either vitrification or two-step cooling methods, still appears genotype-specific. Will a single method be applicable to all genotypes within a collection? A strategy to deal with diversity is needed to minimize the effort required to achieve practical cryopreservation.
23432906|Two alternative accelerated aging vigor test methods for soybeans were evaluated, namely the large chamber method and the sealed jar method. With the large chamber method, a significant variation in the final seed moisture content, fungal growth, and percent of high vigor seedlings occurred among samples from the same seed lot, depending on their location in the accelerated aging chamber. This variation among samples did not occur when the accelerated aging test was conducted by the sealed jar method. However, seeds with higher initial moisture contents deteriorated more rapidly than seeds with lower moisture content. Placing multi-samples in one jar in order to save accelerated aging chamber space, resulted in a variation among samples. The height of the seed sample above the water affected the test results; the higher the sample the higher the percent of high vigor seedlings. The use of a square plastic germination box instead of a jar could save accelerated aging chamber space. The optimum amount of water for the plastic box was determined to be 40 ml.
23432739|The methods and procedures for routine testing for seed-borne-bacterial plant pathogens are still in the developmental stage. This is due to the slow development of research into bacterial plant pathology in general. However, several methods have been developed to handle various critical seed-borne bacterial disease situations. Efforts are now being made both in the United States and in the ISTA Plant Disease Committee to correct this situation.
23432822|Water oak acorns were collected at 5 different dates spanning their maturation period. At each sampling date fresh weight, moisture content, diameter, length, dry weight, germination capacity, chlorophyll and carotenoid content were determined. A spectrophotometric scan of 90% acetone extract of Quercus nigra L. pericarp showed absorption peaks at wavelengths 665 and 432 nm. Total chlorophyll concentration decreased while carotenoid concentration remained constant toward maturity. For each sampling time during maturation, chlorophyll a concentration did not vary significantly from chlorophyll b. The mean ratio of a to b was constant throughout the maturation period. Dry weight, germinability, acorn diameter and length all increased while fresh weight, percent moisture content and absolute moisture content increased initially and then declined toward maturity. These changes correlated very well with chlorophyll changes.
23432932|Changes in lipid fatty acids associated with the breaking of dormancy by phytochrome in Amaranthus albus L. seeds were investigated. Changes in polar lipids occurred within 4 hours after dormancy was overcome by a stimulatory red irradiation. In irradiated seeds, the percentage of unsaturation in polar lipid increased as shown by enhanced linoleic acid content. In seeds maintained in dormancy, the polar lipid fatty acid composition also changed but opposite to that observed in irradiated seeds. The results suggest the involvement of membrane lipids in the transition from a dormant to a non-dormant state in seeds.
23432834|Columbia needlegrass (Stipa columbiana Macoun.) is an important native grass on western rangelands that would be a valuable species for use in revegetation treatments. The objective of this study was to further understand the germination requirements to help ensure the establishment of this species from seedlings. The germination of seven collections or accessions was investigated at 55 constant and alternating temperatures. For dormant collections, prechilling, potassium nitrate (KNO3) and gibberellin (GA3) enrichment of the substrate were used to enhance germination. For some of the seed sources evaluated, appreciable germination occurred over a wide range of temperatures without prior treatment to enhance germination. Germination of these seed sources was greatly reduced at low incubation temperatures. The temperature regimes that most frequently supported optimum germination (optimum defined as not lower than the maximum observed and its confidence limit at the 0.01 level of probability) were 15/25C (15C for 16 h and 25C for 8 h in each 24 h period), 15/35C, and 20/35C. Dormant seeds of Columbia needlegrass had germination enhanced by GA3 enrichment from 0.289 through 0.867 mmol L-1, and KNO3 from 0.001 through 0.1 mol L-1.
23432905|The continuing introduction of new cultivars of Kentucky bluegrass in the seed market has required new studies to identify seeds of these cultivars through dimensional and topographical characteristics. Length and width measurements, seed characteristics, and drawings are used to describe 21 cultivars in addition to those described in earlier work by Wiseman (3) and Niemyski and Grzelak.
23432730|Unusually high amounts of Penicillium spp. contamination of grass seed germination tests occurred in the Iowa State University seed germination laboratory in the winter of 1978-79. The contamination was particularly severe on blotters moistened with potassium nitrate, resulting in reduced germination of Poa pratensis L. seeds. The building air supply proved to be the major source of Penicillium inoculum, contaminating blotters at the time of test preparation. Seeds, potassium nitrate solutions and blotters did not carry significant amounts of inoculum. Severe contamination also occurred when paper towels moistened with KNO3 were used as substrata, but no contamination occurred when KNO3 moistened Kimpak tissues were used.
23432669|Determination of the optimum moisture content for seed storage is difficult because deterioration is very slow at conditions close to the optimum. We have used thermodynamic principles to relate water phase behavior with different mechanisms of seed deterioration. We conclude that the optimum moisture level for storage represents a compromise between slowing aging reactions and preventing lethal ice formation by drying, and retaining the structural integrity of cellular constituents by supplying sufficient structural water. For desiccation sensitive tissues, there may not be a moisture content and temperature combination at which aging reactions are sufficiently slowed, and lethal freezing injury and desiccation damage are prevented. In this case, storage protocols require vitrification, a process by which the thermodynamically stable state is avoided by cooling very rapidly. The thermodynamic principles invoked in this paper may indicate the optimum conditions for seed storage, but they are not sufficient to describe the rate of aging under these or other conditions.
23430403|Seed coatings on carrot (Daucus carota L.), lettuce (Lactuca sativa L.), and onion (Allium cepa L.) from four commercial sources were found to vary widely in their hydrophobic or hydrophylic properties. Too much or too little moisture in the planting medium inhibited radicle emergence of coated seed in standard tests for some samples. By carefully controlling substrate moisture, coated seed can be tested satisfactorily without removing the coating material.
23432940|A brief overview of topics relating to peanut seed production and testing based on selected research and extension publications is presented. Topics relating to seed production include the morphology of the peanut plant and seed, field isolation requirements, seed calcium requirements, harvest management and conditioning. Seed testing issues include inter-laboratory variability in germination testing, the development of procedures for a seedling vigor classification and a 3-hour dynamic conductivity analysis, a variant on the standard seed seeds are low in vigor, and the relationship between vigor and the seedbed environment.
23432823|Thirteen Canadian two-rowed barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) cultivars were separated into two groups based on differences in rachilla hair length. The cultivars were otherwise indistinguishable for seed phenotypic characters. Electrophoretic techniques were used to distinguish individual cultivars within each of the two groups. Banding patterns in six systems including, in seedlings: esterase, peroxidase and anodal and cathodal acid phosphatases, plus, in seeds, peroxidase and general proteins were effective in providing resolution for cultivars. One cultivar, Elrose, was distinguishable only on the basis of being polymorphic for parental patterns in esterase and anodal acid phosphatase.
23432707|Cost-effective and timely procedures to determine heterogeneity level in batch-mixed commercial seed lots are not available. This is a concept paper describing a procedure which can fill the void. The principal change from present practice is to incorporate known numbers of indicator seeds (seeds marked for easy detection) into a seed lot as it is being mixed and then to test for random distribution of the indicator seeds within the lot. The procedure is illustrated with examples for a blend of two alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) seed lots, a direct-harvest alfalfa seed lot, and a lawngrass seed mixture. Key steps are (1) determine amount of indicator seed needed, (2) obtain and mark the indicator seeds, (3) mix the seed lot, incorporating the indicator seeds as additional components of the lot, (4) draw samples, (5) count and record numbers of indicator seeds in samples, and (6) analyze results. The test requires no specialized equipment, and can be run by conditioning plant employees. Calculations can be made with the aid of a hand calculator. The test can be especially useful for testing the effectiveness of seed mixing systems (equipment, mixing time, warehouse procedures, etc.). Benefits of using the test could include gaining approval for an increase in size of some U.S. seed lots entering international seed markets; reduced numbers of "stop sales" in intra- and interstate commerce; reduction in the occurrance of under-mixing and concurrent heterogeneity; reduction of over-mixing and concurrent unnecessary seed damage; and a higher quality product for consumers.
23432752|The results of two experiments on the conductivity test for bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) seed quality are reported. In the first experiment, the effect of reducing soaking time from 24 hr down to 0.5 hr was examined by monitoring the conductivity levels of the leachate from 49 single beans. Correlations with 24 hr conductivity ranged from 0.78 at 0.5 hr to 0.96 at 9 hr. A 4 hr soaking time gave results consistent with the 24 hr test. In the second experiment, the standard germination test was compared for 10 bean lines with the 4 hr single bean conductivity test, and the germination test applied to the same beans after 4 hr soaking. Two lines with high germination in the standard test performed poorly in the other tests. Based on these results, the conductivity test should be a quick means of detecting poor quality seed lots, and both the conductivity and the soak/germination tests should complement the germination test in assessing potential field performance.
23432964|The status of seed vigor testing was determined by surveying seed testing laboratories in the Association of Official Seed Analysts (AOSA) and the Society of Commercial Seed Technologists (SCST). The survey indicated that 61% of the 102 laboratories responding were testing for seed vigor, which was 10 percentage points higher than in 1976. The vigor tests conducted by the largest percentage of all laboratories responding were; cold test (72%), tetrazolium (66%) and acceleratedaging (65%). Nearly two-thirds of the 61 laboratories conducting vigor tests were conducting three or more different tests in their laboratories. The tests which have shown the greatest increase since 1976 in laboratories testing for vigor were; accelerated-aging, conductivity and tetrazolium. Corn and soybeans were the crops tested most frequently for seed vigor in 85 and 74%, respectively, of the responding laboratories. The SCST laboratories tended to conduct more vigor tests per laboratory and a greater number of samples per test annually than the AOSA laboratories.
23432946|The hard seed coat trait in soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merr.) has been utilized to reduce seed deterioration in humid climates; however, cultivars with high levels of hardseededness require post-harvest scarification to allow rapid imbibition and germination. The purpose of this experiment was to determine how seed size and scarification interact to affect the percentage of hard seed in a seed lot. Four seed lots derived from 'D86-4565' and 'D87-4629' (hardseeded experimental strains) were screened for size and scarified. Initial hard seed percentages ranged from 26 to 89%. Hard seed increased with seed size to a maximum value and then decreased in three of the four seed lots, indicating that the smallest seed were not always the hardest. Large seed were more easily scarified than small seed in two of the lots. In the largest seed-size category of a conditioned seed lot of D86-4565, scarification reduced the percentage of hard seed below 1%. These results implied that the difficulty of scarifying hard seed could be reduced by selecting for large seed in breeding programs and screening for seed size during conditioning.
23432974|The effect of potassium fertilization on seed infection by Phomopsis spp. and seed quality of four soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merr) genotypes was evaluated for four years on a soil with a low initial available potassium level. Soil potassium applications of 28 to 224 kg ha.1 significantly increased soil test potassium levels and potassium levels in the soybean leaves at growth stage R2 and in carpels at growth stages R6 and R7. There was no significant increase in K levels of seed, however, following potassium fertilization. Soil applications of potassium had no effect on the levels of Phomopsis spp. infection of carpels at growth stages R6 and R7 or seed at harvest maturity (HM). Thus, there was no relationship between potassium concentration in carpels at growth stages R6 and R7 and Phomopsis spp. infection in carpels at R7. Similarly there was no relationship between potassium concentration in carpels at R7 or seeds at HM and seed germination or Phomopsis spp. infection of seed at HM.
23432931|Studies with seeds of winterfat [Ceratoides lanata (Pursh) J. T. Howell] were conducted preparatory to submitting a proposal for an addition to Rules For Testing Seeds. "Threshed seeds," "fruits  3 mm in length," and "all winterfat fruits" were evaluated as criteria for determining what should be considered pure seed in laboratory testing. Seed analysts are advised to follow existing guidelines and classify all winterfat fruits, regardless of size, as pure seed. The minimum weight for purity analysis is 12 grams. Evaluation of laboratory germination methods showed "in covered petri dishes on the surface of moistened blotters" to be a suitable substratum, and 15C constant temperature for 14 days without light is recommended for laboratory germination. For fresh lots, prechilling at 5C for 14 days is recommended.
23432938|Rice (Oryza sativa Linn.) seeds are treated prior to storage with insecticides and fungicides to ward off the external agents of seed damage. Fumigation controls the insects that have already infested the seeds. Several pre-sowing seed treatments are available to prevent seedling mortality during germination. Such treatments not only enhance seedling establishment but also the crop performance. A few areas of rice seed treatment requiring further studies are also indicated.
23432746|Six nonscarified seed lots of sweetclover, Melilotus officinalis Lam., and M. alba Medik., were exposed to infrared radiation, radiofrequency electric fields, and gas-plasma radiation to compare the effectiveness of the treatments in reducing hard-seed content. All three treatments were about equally effective. Significant increases in normal-seedling germination and corresponding decreases in hard-seed percentages were achieved, but substantial amounts of hard seed remained in all seed lots after treatment. Treatments were generally more effective when seed moisture content was low. Results of greenhouse sand emergence tests on treated and control samples were similar to those obtained in standard laboratory blotter germination tests. Measured water sorption of seed samples also followed the same patterns as germination test results, since both reflected changes in seed coat permeability. Samples tested after 17 years in storage at 4 C and 50% relative humidity had generally higher normal-seedling counts and much higher abnormal seedling and dead seed counts than they did in initial tests. However, significant increases in normal-seedling germination and reductions in hard seed content were still evident after 17 years in storage as a result of the electrical treatments. Improvements in germination performance were not great enough or consistent enough to warrant serious consideration of the treatments for practical application.
23432784|Commercial lime seed coatings from three companies were tested for their ability to influence alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) seedling emergence, nodulation, and forage yield. Seedings were made at three sites in interior British Columbia, differing in elevation and environment, during each of two years, 1987 and 1988. Only one seed coating, Rhizo-Kote, increased seedling emergence, by an average of 21% over six seedings. At the one site where there was a response to inoculation, all three coatings resulted in root nodulation similar to field inoculation of bare seed with peat-based inoculum by the water slurry method. Seeding-year yield from preinoculated coated seed was similar to yield from field inoculated bare seed. Although Rhizo-Kote improved seedling emergence, it did not increase yield.
23432945|Occasionally, large differences occur between actual germination and germination potential of gin run cottonseed as estimated in a tetrazolium test. The reason for these differences is not always apparent. One possibility is the presence of internal microorganisms. To test this hypothesis, 36 samples of gin run cottonseed were evaluated using the standard germination test. Twenty-seven of the 36 samples were selected for tetrazolium testing. The remaining nine lots were eliminated because of similarity in the standard germination tests. Nine of the 27 samples tested using the tetrazolium test were selected for microorganism anlysis. These nine samples were selected based on differences between standard germination and estimated germination in the tetrazolium test and number of dead seed per lot. Seed from each sample were acid delinted using concentrated H2SO4. Microorganisms were isolated from inside the seed coat and from the embryos of 100 randomly selected seed from each lot. Bacteria were found more often than fungi. Enterobacter agglomerans was the dominant bacterium and the most prevalent fungi were in the genus Fusarium. Only 2.9% of the embryos contained bacteria and 1.4% contained fungi. Fungi inside the seed coat were also low. Only 2.7% of the seed coats were infected. Total bacteria inside the seed coat were much higher with 15.2% of the seed coats being infected. The number of embryos containing fungi was negatively and significantly correlated with germination. r=0.655, while the number of bacteria inside the seed coat and in the embryo was positively and significantly correlated with germination, r=0.852 and 0.891 respectively. All three correlations were significant at the 0.05 level of probability. Results obtained from this study indicate that internally borne microorganisms contribute little to the reduced germination of gin run cottonseed.
23432670|Several image processing techniques are being developed at the National Seed Storage Laboratory to enhance the preservation and utilization of seed germplasm. Two projects investigate the potential of this technology in controlling and providing additional information in germination testing, seedling growth rate analysis and tetrazolium testing. Another thrust of the research has been to develop an image-based database. Investigations in this study concentrate on the development of features which describe physical characteristics of seed. An object-oriented database was developed within the Windows 3.1 operating environment. This database is unique because it is capable of displaying many types of information, for example seed images, graphs, or color pads. Machine vision and image analysis have shown promise and many new applications of this technology are being developed.
23432921|This report is a review of selected literature pertinent to the application of hypochlorites as seed sterilants. Emphasis is given to variables known to have significant influence on the usefulness of hypochlorites as disinfecting or sterilizing agents. These variables include concentration, pH, temperature, catalysts, excess alkalinity, chlorine demand, and exposure time. Hypochlorite chemistry is summarized and various appropriate terms are defined and presented as recommendations for standard terminology in the use of hypochlorites as seed sterilants.
23433006|Four stored lots of noble fir, Abies procera Rehd. and two of pacific silver fir, A. amabilis (Dougl.) Forbes, were soaked in tap water for 48 hours at room temperature, stratified for 28 days at 4C, dried to a moisture content between 5 and 9%, followed by 14 cold storage treatments. Both species were held in cold storage up to 360 days after drying without any significant loss in viability. All storage periods resulted in improved germination over the controls, which were germinated immedately after stratification without redrying. The combined effect of all lengths of cold storage on germination was not consistent between species and seed lots.
23430396|Seed lots of seven small-seeded legume species and winter oats, winter rye, and perennial ryegrass were exposed to 39 MHz electric fields of known field intensities for various time periods and tested for germination response. The radiofrequency (RF) treatments effectively increased germination of alfalfa, red clover, and ladino clover through reduction of hard seed percentages. Significant increases in germination for these three species, as a result of electrical treatment, were retained in temperature- and humidity-controlled storage for 14 years. Differences between treated and untreated samples held in a seed warehouse without temperature and humidity control tended to disappear after a few years because hard seeds became permeable naturally as the seeds aged. RF treatments overcame postharvest dormancy in winter oats. They did not affect the longevity of winter rye seed held for 6 years after treatment.
23432772|The germination response of desert needlegrass was determined for 55 constant and alternating temperature regimes. The seeds tested were collected from native stands growing on rangelands in the Intermountain area. The germination response at the wide range of constant and alternating temperatures was used to construct quadratic response surfaces. The surfaces were used to predict the germination of desert needlegrass in relation to temperature. For a native needlegrass species, the seeds were relatively germinable at a wide range of temperatures. Compared to known seedbed temperatures for rangelands, germination occurred at most moderate seedbed temperatures and a high proportion of cold seedbed temperatures, but was greatly reduced at widely fluctuating and warm seedbed temperatures. A constant 15 C appeared to be the most desirable temperature for testing the germination of this species.
23432811|Liquid nitrogen (LN2) seed storage has great potential for longterm preservation. However, some legumes are damaged following exposure to LN2. Exposure of alfalfa (Medicago sativa L. subsp. sativa) seed to LN 2 was investigated to determine effects on germination, viability, broken cotyledons, emergence, and dry weight. Treatments evaluated were: LN2 liquid cooling (196C) with rapid (35C) or normal (room temp) warming, LN2 vapor phase cooling (160C) with normal warming, hand scarified LN2 vapor phase with normal warming, hand scarified, and non-scarified control. Prior to LN2 treatment, average percentage of hard seed of the four seed lots was 74% and average seed moisture content was 5.9%. Alfalfa accessions containing a high percentage of hard seed (up to 79%) had cotyledon breakage when exposed to LN2 vapor phase (160C) for 24 h. Cotyledon breakage was reduced when seed was scarified prior to LN2 exposure. Emergence was not significantly affected by any treatment except LN2 vapor phase with normal warming and the non-scarified control which had significantly less emergence due to hard seed content. Non-scarified control seedling weight was 80% heavier than LN2 liquid phase cooling with either rapid or normal warming. This study suggests that cotyledon breakage of alfalfa seed is associated with hard-seededness usually found in newly harvested seed and that cotyledon breakage reduces seedling growth.
23432717|Bentgrasses (Agrostis spp.) are economically important turfgrasses in the Northeastern United States and, consequently, new and rapid methods of bentgrass cultivar identification need to be developed. Protein extracts obtained from unimbibed seeds of 10 bentgrass cultivars were characterized using 7% polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis to isolate esterase isoenzymes. The cultivars from the following species were studied: Agrostis palustris Huds. (creeping bentgrass) 'National', 'Penncross', 'Seaside', 'Penneagle', 'Pennlinks', 'Emerald'; Agrostis canina L. (velvet bentgrass) 'Kingstown'; Agrostis tenuis Sibth. (colonial bentgrass) 'Dutchess', 'Exeter', 'Highland'. The results revealed that esterase banding profiles separated creeping, colonial and velvet bentgrasses. Prominent bands at Rf 0.55-0.59 were unique to the colonial bentgrass cultivars. Creeping bentgrass cultivars were charcterized by bands at Rf 0.50-0.60 but these lacked the intensity of the colonial cultivars. Velvet bentgrass was distinguished from the creeping and colonial bentgrasses by bands which were prominent at Rf 0.57-0.66. Minor banding pattern variations characterized the individual cultivars within each of these species groups. This study demonstrated that esterase isoenzyme analysis using polyacrylamide electrophoresis can be an effective tool in screening bentgrass species or identifying various cultivars within each species. These tests can be used to supplement visual seed analysis or traditional field and growth chamber tests.
23432696|The effects of mechanical sizing on soybean seed planter metering accuracy were investigated. Seven lots of four cultivars were sized into seven thickness size categories ranging from 10/64 in. (3.97 mm) to 16/64 in. (6.35 mm). Metering accuracy of three plates, B24-28, BSOY2 and BSOY, manufactured by Lincoln Ag. Products, Lincoln, Nebraska was determined with 28 seed sizes and size combinations using a John Deere Planter Plate Test Stand. A planter plate cell metering accuracy percentage (CMA%) was calculated on the basis of the most frequent number of seed discharged per cell. The B24-28 plate (widely used to plant large, round corn seed) gave CMA values of 90% or higher for 23 of the 28 seed size categories and combinations. The BSOY2 plate gave CMA values of 90% or higher when seed were uniform in size (to 1/64 inch) (0.397 mm) or when seed smaller than 13/64 in. (5.16 mm) thick were removed from the seed lot. The BSOY plate gave CMA values of 90% or higher only when seed smaller than 13/64 in. thick were removed from the seed lot. Results were confirmed in large hopper box tests simulating field planting.
23432740|A few seed transmitted viruses are carried on the surface of seed and in seed parts outside the embryo; however, most are carried in the embryo. The methods that can be used to detect seedborne viruses include both biological methods (grow-on test and direct seed test) and serological tests (agar double diffusion, radial diffusion, latex flocculation, ELISA, SSEM). These methods are described in some detail and all partially meet the criteria of simple, rapid, specific, sensitive and inexpensive that are distinctive for the "Ideal Method".
23432941|Pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) seeds were soaked in water, a 1% KNO3 + 1% K2HPO4 solution, or a 1.5% KNO3 + 1.5% K2HPO4 solution at 21C for either 72 hrs or 96 hrs. Seeds were air dried and germinated at 15C, 20C, or 25C. All soaking treatments hastened germination and resulted in more uniform germination. The velocity of germination was increased by soaking treatments and this increase was promoted by greater germination temperatures. Seed soaking reduced germination index more at 15C than 20C or 25C. Soaking seed in water or a 1% KNO3 + 1% K2HPO4 solution gave similar results and were slightly better in promoting germination than the 1.5% KNO3 + 1.5% K2HPO4 solution.
23432661|Freezing at an ultralow temperature and thawing was shown in 1930 to decrease hard-seededness of alfalfa but the method has never been applied commercially. Freezing equipment now exists that could be adapted for freezing batches of alfalfa seed. Thus this study was conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of freeze-thaw treatments to reduce hard-seededness of two alfalfa seed lots known to have hard seed. A study was also conducted to determine if freeze-thawing of seeds has any negative effects on subsequent plant growth. Freezing to -10C was ineffective but freezing to -80C was highly effective at decreasing hard-seededness. Freeze-thaw treatments effectively decreased hard seed content of seed lots of a purple flowered alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) cultivar, Peace, and a yellow flowered alfalfa (Medicago falcata L.) cultivar, Anik. Hard seed content decreased exponentially with the number of freeze-thaw cycles. With a freeze-thaw cycle consisting of 2 h exposure to -80C and 2 or 18 h thaw at 20C, it took 1.6 cycles to decrease Peace hard seed by 50% and 2.6 cycles to decrease Anik hard seed by 50%. The -80C freeze-thaw treatments increased rate of germination based on total seed population, total germination, rate of seedling development, and number of seedlings established. Freeze-thawing does not affect nonhard seeds since the freeze-thaw treatment had no effect on the rate of seed germination when based only on the population of seeds germinating. Freeze-thaw treatment of seed had no effect on seedling vigor as measured by dry matter production. The freeze-thaw treatment is an effective method for decreasing alfalfa hard-seededness; thus, an economic analysis of its use for commercial application is required.
23432692|Poor chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) stand establishment often occurs when seeds are planted in cool soils. The effects of storage temperature and duration on 'Garnet' chickpea seed germination at low temperature were determined. In a storage temperature study three seedlots were stored at 5C, 23C, and open temperatures (16-27C). In a storage duration study seeds were stored 104 weeks at 5C, then transferred to 23C for periods ranging from 1 to 8 weeks before germination testing. Storage at 23C or open storage reduced germination percentage and germination index and increased hardseededness. Seedling growth rate at 5C germination temperature was not influenced by storage temperature, but was significantly lower at 27C germination temperature for seed from open storage. Seeds moved from cool to warm storage environments rapidly exhibited decreased germination and increased hardseededness.
23432910|Cultivar Verification Testing started in Canada on a small scale in the early 1930's. A full field plot testing program covering the cultivar purity testing of pedigree seed was initiated by Agriculture Canada's Plant Products Division in 1959. The application of laboratory testing methods and the development of laboratory methods was started after 1965 and has led to the development or modification of many routine laboratory test methods. Cultivar purity testing programs have been initiated in the Plant Products Division District Seed Laboratories in order that these laboratories can provide this type of analytical service to its districts enforcement staff and other persons involved in the seed pedigree system.
23432657|Rapid and efficient methods are needed to differentiate between creeping bentgrass (Agrostis palustris Huds.) and colonial bentgrass (Agrostis tenuis Sibth.) species and to complement both visual evaluation of seeds and growth chamber tests. This study was initiated to determine if varying proportions of colonial bentgrass seeds could be detected in creeping bentgrass seeds using esterase isoenzyme polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) and to determine at what lower proportion level esterase isoenzyme PAGE was no longer capable of resolving the creeping bentgrass admixture. The PAGE procedures revealed that colonial and creeping bentgrass seed extracts had distinct esterase isoenzyme banding patterns and the staining intensity of bands at RF 0.55 to 0.70 could be used to detect mixtures of creeping and colonial bentgrass. Proportions as low as 10% colonial bentgrass seeds in creeping bentgrass seeds were detected by visual examination of PAGE gels and proportions as low as 5% were detected using densitometric scans of the gels. This study demonstrated that PAGE esterase isoenzyme analysis was an effective method to detect colonial bentgrass contamination in creeping bentgrass and can provide the seed analyst with another test to supplement visual evaluation of seeds and growth chamber tests.
23432765|Accelerated aging is an established seed vigor test for a number of crop species. This investigation examined the effects of aging temperatures and duration of exposure on the germination of treated and untreated sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L. Moench) seed. Three temperatures (41C, 43C and 45C) and three exposure periods (24, 48 and 72 h) were tested using seed lots of "Topaz" of different ages and two seed treatments (Captan and methoxychlor; Captan, methoxychlor and Concept II). Seed moisture increased with longer aging durations with little differences between seed lots. Seed moistures of 2930% were reached after 72 h aging at both 43 and 45C. Seed germination was almost unaffected by aging at 41C but declined at higher temperatures and after longer test durations. Seed from a freshly harvested high vigor seed lot had higher accelerated-aging germination than carryover lower vigor seed lots. Seed treated with Captan and Methoxychlor germinated similar to the untreated seed following aging, however when Concept II was added the seed showed greater sensitivity to aging stress especially in carryover seed lots. Seed lots were effectively separated by aging for 72 h, 43C and 48 h, 45C. Both aging treatments showed high correlations with soil emergence across three field plantings, however, the 72 h, 43C treatment is recommended because it showed the most consistent germination results across treated and untreated seed lots.
23432960|Reserve protein degradation began the second day of germination in cotyledons of Cucurbita moschata Poir. 'Walthan Butternut', and was complete by the sixth day of germination. The original salt soluble, heat stable protein was converted into water soluble, heat stable protein and finally into free amino acids. Removal of the embryo tissue had no effect upon the degradation rate or pattern. Cyclohexamide or polyethylene glycol prevented protein breakdown when applied to axisless cotyledons. Cyclohexamide severely reduced protein degradation when applied on the third day of germination. It was concluded that emybro tissue was not required for reserve protein degradation in this species; that enzymes required for protein degradation were synthesized during germination; and that cotyledon expansion was required for reserve protein degradation. It was suggested that the metabolic activity caused by cotyledon expansion may serve as an internal sink for the products of storage protein degradation, reducing their concentration to a non-inhibitory level.
23432959|Enzymatic activity capable of cleaving the peptide bond of N-benzoyl-DL-arginine-p-nitroaniline (BAPAse activity) and N-benzoyl-DL-arginine--naphthalinide (BANAse activity) was found in cotyledons of germinating seeds of Cucurbita moshata Poir. 'Waltham Butternut'. Removal of the embryonic axis did not influence the maximum level of enzyme activity. BAPAse activity was separated into two fractions by Sephadex G-50 and DEAE chromatography. The BAPAses were inhibited by N-ethylmaleimide and iodoacetamide suggesting that the enzymes were sulfhydryl dependent while BANAse activity was not inhibited. The BAPAses were not inhibited by arginine, -aminobutyric acid, asparagine, glutamate or ornithine at a concentration 5-fold greater than the substrate. Neither BAPAses or BANAse were capable of cleaving peptide bonds found in the seed globulin, the water soluble, heat stable protein derived from the seed globulin or N--benzoyl-L-argininamide. These enzymes may degrade small arginine containing peptides derived from the original seed globulin.
23432824|Fusicoccin (FC) applied by acetone infusion to seeds of tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.), pepper (Capiscum annuum L.) and sugarbeet (Beta vulgaris L.) promoted rapid germination. Gibberellic acid (GA3, GA4/7) stimulated low temperature germination of pepper and sugarbeet seeds but was less effective than FC. Ethephon (E) stimulated germination of 'Ace 55 VF' tomato seeds while no response resulted from kinetin (K) treatment. The combination of GA4/7, K and E stimulated early germination of tomato seeds. FC and GA4/7 used in combination on sugarbeet seeds were not faster acting than FC alone but did eventually produce an additive increase in the germination rate.
23432656|Soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill] seed vigor can affect yield either indirectly by influencing plant populations or more directly by affecting plant growth. Greenhouse experiments were conducted to evaluate the relationship between seed vigor and seedling growth. Seed lots of six cultivars with acceptable standard germination (82%) and high- and low-vigor levels based on the speed of germination and accelerated-aging germination tests were selected. In a first set of experiments, large and small size classes were selected from each seed lot of two cultivars (DeSoto and Pershing) using round hole screens. Seeds were planted in the greenhouse and seedling dry weight (excluding the cotyledons) and leaf area were measured at 5, 10, 15, and 20 d after emergence (DAE) on seedlings that exhibited no cotyledon injuries and emerged on the same day. Within a vigor level, seedlings from large seeds were heavier at the first and final harvests than seedlings from small seeds by an average of 55 and 57%, respectively. Seed size had no effect on specific growth rate (SGR) (mg mg-1 day-1) or net assimilation rate (NAR) (g m-2 d-1). Seed vigor had no effect on SGR, NAR, or seedling weight at 20 DAE. In a second set of experiments, individual seed conductivity of seeds from high- and low-vigor seed lots of four cultivars ('SS443', 'Harper', 'BE-29' and 'Williams 82') was measured and related to seedling dry weight accumulation. There was no significant relationship between conductivity and seedling dry weight at 20 DAE for seedlings with no cotyledon injury. However, an average of 49% of the seedlings from low vigor seedlots showed cotyledon injury at emergence vs. 20% for high-vigor seedlots. Seedlings with cotyledon injury emerged slower and had less dry weight at 20 DAE. The data indicate that seed vigor has no effect on the ability of the seedling to accumulate dry weight if there is no injury to the cotyledons.
23432920|The ABA content of elderberry (Sambucus cerulea Raf.) seed harvested from two different locations increased as the seed approached physiological maturity and decreased thereafter. At no time during seed maturation would the seed germinate in water. The germination percentage of mature seed stratified and germinated in gibberellic acid increased as the ABA content of the seed declined.
23433007|The similarity in seeds of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivars makes identification by morphological characteristics difficult. The phenol test is used to identify cultivars and to determine cultivar mixtures and mixtures of winter and spring types. The various colorations in the seed coat caused by the phenol oxidation make identification possible. The Munsell Soil Color Charts were used as reference in identification of color of 37 various cultivars. Evaluation by phenol testing requires known samples and careful timing to assure accurate evaluation.
23432709|Soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr] cultivars with water-impermeable seed coats have superior resistance to seed deterioration caused by late-season rains that may delay harvest. The purpose of this study was to determine if a cultivar with a high percentage of hard seed may be sufficiently scarified by mechanical harvest to permit rapid imbibition and germination. A hardseeded strain, 'D86-4510,' was harvested in 1988 and 1989 with a Massey Super 35 combine at recommended and increased cylinder speeds in factorial combination with recommended and reduced concave spacings. Seed were also threshed by hand, for comparison. Harvested seed were analyzed using 24-h soak, standard germination, and accelerated aging tests. Combine harvesting reduced the percentage of hard seed in both years. Reduction in concave spacing had no affect in 1988, but lowered hard seed by 6% in 1989. Increasing cylinder speed from 700 to 1050 rpm reduced hard seed by 9% in both years. Although machine-harvest treatments reduced hard seed, 47% and 63% of seed from D86-4510 remained hard in 1988 and 1989, respectively, when harvested at the highest cylinder speed and closest concave spacing. A 24-h soak test conducted 210 d after the 1989 harvest revealed no appreciable changes in hardseededness. Since 47% or more of the seed from D86-4510 remained hard after machine harvest each year, it seems apparent that seed from similar cultivars now being developed will require specific post-harvest scarification prior to planting.
23432708|Environmental stress during seed development may influence soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill] seed quality. Two greenhouse experiments were conducted to study the effect of drought stress on soybean (cv. 'McCall') seed germination and vigor. Two stress treatments (moderate and severe) were imposed at growth stages R5 and R6 and compared with well watered plants. Drought stress significantly reduced weight per seed and yield per plant and increased stomatal resistance. It had little effect on seed shape; however, and few shrunken or wrinkled seed were produced. Drought stress had no effect on seed germination and little effect on seed vigor as measured by the accelerated aging, conductivity and cold tests. In one experiment, drought stress increased the proportion of hard seed (especially in the smaller seed size fraction) which lowered 3-day germination, but did not affect final germination or vigor. Although the most severe drought stress treatment reduced seed weight and yield substantially (34% and 38%, respectively) it had little or no effect on seed quality.
23432988|The detrimental effects of Phomopsis spp. on seed germination of soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill] are broadly recognized. Rolled paper toweling is the most widely used method for testing germination of soybean seed. The validity of the rolled-paper-towel test to determine the actual viability of soybean seed infected with Phomopsis spp. was examined. Seventy-three seed samples of 23 soybean cultivars produced in Florida in 1986 were analyzed for germination, vigor [tetrazolium (TZ) test], and pathogens. Phomopsis spp. were the fungi most frequently associated with soybean seed (up to 77% seed infection). Infection by these microorganisms was mainly restricted to the seedcoat. Deep-seated infection was rare (mean 0.5%). Viability, as obtained by the standard germination test (rolled paper toweling) was drastically reduced by high (>33%) levels of Phomopsis spp. These detrimental effects were not observed when germination was examined in sand, if conditions were adequate for fast emergence. When seed were tested in sand, the infected seedcoats remained in or on the sand upon emergence, thus the seedlings escaped much of the detrimental effects of infected seedcoats. Therefore, rolled paper toweling was not the best substrate to evaluate germination of soybean seed infected with high levels of Phomopsis spp. Emergence in sand or the TZ test provided more realistic estimates of viability for seed lots infected with these fungi. Nevertheless, it was noted that as the vigor level expressed by the TZ test decreased, the level of infected seedlings and damping-off tended to increase.
23432637|The use of beardless wildrye (Elymus triticoides Buckl.) as a forage grass is limited by slow germination and poor stand establishment. Little research has been done on the germination of beardless wildrye. The purpose of this research was to study the germination behavior of beardless wildrye in an effort to define factors contributing to slow germination. We studied the effect of temperature on imbibition and germination, and the effects of stratification, seed size, embryo excision and high oxygen concentrations on germination. Temperature did not affect total imbibition, however, imbibition at 30 and 20 C induced greater germination when transferred to a 15-25 C alternating germination environment. The application of oxygen induced the greatest germination response of all treatments (57%). Excised embryos germinated rapidly and percentage germination was equal to viability of the seed lot. The response to oxygen and the rapid and complete germination of excised embryos indicates that dormancy in beardless wildrye is imposed by the outer coverings of the seed. Germination was not influenced by seed size.
23432749|Skunkbush sumac (Rhus trilobata Nutt.) and serviceberry (Amelanchier alnifolia Nutt.) are native shrubs extensively distributed in the western United States which have achieved importance in revegetation of disturbed lands. Standard germination tests were performed on each species as outlined in the literature. Seed viability was determined with triphenyl tetrazolium chloride (TZ). Results indicated that special techniques would be required to affect the rapid germination needed in current seed testing programs. Both species have hard or impermeable seed coats and embryo dormancy normally overcome by cold stratification or fall sowing. Results confirm that skunkbush sumac germination is promoted by 75 minutes acid scarification and that KNO3 or GA produce no additional response. Acid scarification for 30 minutes and a mixture of thiourea (TU) and benzyladenine (BA) as a media moistening agent was beneficial to serviceberry germination. Analysis predicted maximum germination to occur with 300 ppm BA and 100 mM TU. An interaction of BA and TU on germination was observed at the lower concentrations.
23433008|A simple, mechanically operated shaker, suitable for routine testing of samples from barley breeding programmes, was used to determine the effect of shaking time on 'screenings' produced from two contrasting barley samples. The shaker was fitted with a single screen with 2.2 mm apertures. Screenings increased asymptotically as shaking time was extended, a minimum of 5 min being needed to give a constant screenings figure. With 5 min shaking, the means and 95% confidence intervals for the varieties Clipper and Pirouette were 8.1  0.5 and 15.7  1.2 respectively.
23432783|This study evaluated accelerated aging (AA) (41 C100% RH) technique for increasing germination by reducing dormancy in Pensacola bahiagrass seed. The objective was to age the seed sufficiently to increase germination up to or near maximum viability without reducing vigor or storage potential. The (AA) treatment resulted in an increase in total germination from 50 to 95% in the seed lots of this study. The rate of germination also was increased by the aging. In the AA treated seed only 14 days were required to attain a germination percentage equivalent to that of 28 days in the unaged seed. A more rapid germination rate would reduce the time needed for laboratory germination tests and may improve stand establishment. While the stresses of high temperature and humidity age the seed and thereby increase total germination and speed of germination, these stresses have the potential for reducing vigor and storage life of the seed. Aged seed planted in sand and incubated in a low temperature stress (25C) showed greater emergence (30%) than unaged seed (12%) when counted 14 days after planting. In a test to evaluate the effect of aging on viability after storage, germination of aged seed was not reduced after 1 year of storage.
23432944|Since lipids play a role in the survival of seeds, it is important to understand the lipid chemistry in seeds as they age. Significant differences in the extractable, nonpolar lipid fraction of naturally aged and fresh seeds of lettuce (Lactuca sativa L.) were observed using liquid carbon dioxide extraction followed by capillary supercritical fluid chromatographic separation and flame ionization detection. In the aged seed, both low molecular weight products and high molecular weight polymeric products were detected with a concomitant decrease in the two major triglycerides relative to those in the fresh seed. The analytical methodology developed for this study was found to be quantitatively reproducible for a mixture of five standard triglycerides with a coefficient of variability of less than 0.6%. Nine triglycerides were identified using supercritical fluid chromatography. Identities of four free fatty acids were confirmed by capillary gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. While the appearance of degradation products has previously been associated with the aging process, the appearance of polymeric products in association with seed degradation has not been reported, but was made possible through the use of supercritical fluid chromatography. This new information may provide further insight to why seeds loose vigor and viability.
23432815|The loss of intracellular materials from seeds during imbibition has been used as an index of seed quality and vigor. Information about the origin of the leachate and the manner in which loss is affected by aging is needed to improve the interpretation of leakage measurements. In order to identify the origin and characterize the effects of aging on loss, a compartmental analysis was done on the potassium efflux from submerged pea (Pisum sativum L.) embryos during imbibition. Potassium activity in the mechanically stirred solution, buffered to pH 6.5, was monitored with a potassium ion-selective electrode for the initial 4 h after the dry embryo began to imbibe. The kinetics of efflux from both control and aged embryos fit a double exponential curve, consistent with efflux from two compartments. One compartment exchanged rapidly with a half-time of approximately 7 min, while the other compartment, which accounted for most of the leaching potassium, had a half-time for exchange of about 2 h. Aging increased the amount of potassium available for efflux from both compartments and possibly decreased the half-time for exchange from the slowly-exchanging compartment.
23432817|Changes in germination of 22 soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merr.) seed lots in open storage were compared to several time-temperature combinations of accelerated aging (AA) to determine their accuracy in predicting the storability of soybean seed lots. Samples of seed were placed in open storage at Mississippi State University on March 4. Germination tests were conducted from samples in open storage in June, August, October and December. The effectiveness of the tests were evaluated by simple regression analysis. Correlation coefficients (r) were .860** and .937** for AA at 40 C for 48 hours with June and August germination respectively and .900** and .849** for AA at 45 C for 48 hours with October and December germinations respectively. This demonstrates that accelerated aging is an effective means of predicting storability of soybean seed lots.
23432660|Alfalfa seed is mostly produced in geographical locations other than where it will be planted for forage production. The effect of geographic area of seed production on performance of the progeny of hybrid alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) seed is not well known. This study was conducted to determine the effect of geographic location of alfalfa seed production on the performance of the progeny. Seeds of a self-sterile alfalfa clone 191 were produced in cages under two environments ["cool" (average temperature = 25.6C) and "hot" (average temperature 32.3C)] at Logandale, Nevada and in the field at Tucson, Arizona; Moscow, Idaho; and Bozeman, Montana. The progeny were grown under field conditions at Reno and Logandale, Nevada. Plants grown in trials at Reno and Logandale, Nevada showed no significant (P=0.05) difference in plant height, dry matter yield or crown diameter due to geographical location or environment of seed production in alfalfa clone 191.
23432711|Comparison of the anatomical structures of high density seeds with low density seeds and early germinating with late germinating seeds of sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.)] were made using scanning electron microscopy. The differences in anatomical structures of high and low density seeds and early and late germinating seeds were primarily due to differences in maturity. High density seed had a thinner pericarp, were better filled in the endosperm and had a better developed embryonic axis than the low density seed. Differences in early germinating and late germinating seed between 1.17 and 1.30 specific gravity were not as pronounced as in the low density seeds and late vs. early germinating seed from the ungraded sample. There were no obvious differences in pericarp thickness, celeoptile and plumule development. Differences were evident in the radicle area where structures were not as well organized.
23432935|Broadcast seeding of forage crops having small seed is difficult and often results in uneven stands due to the inability to consistently meter seed flow. Broadcast seeding of forage species into areas where ground equipment cannot operate is being accomplished with aircraft. The small light seed of forage grass and legume species cannot be uniformly broadcast from an aircraft due to wind currents and packing of the seed in the aircraft container. The purpose of our research was to develop seed-pelleting methods for bermudagrass [Cynodon dactylon (L.) Pers.] and ladino clover (Trifolium repens L.) with improved metering and ballistic properties for increased precision and accuracy of seed distribution from aerial seeding. Seed pellets developed with kaolin clay and several binders were tested for pellet strength and destructability and seedling establishment in greenhouse pots. Pellets made from formulations containing polyvinyl alcohol binder resulted in strong pellets that had a low percentage of destruction when tumbled for one hour. These pellets resulted in excellent seed germination (>85%) and seedling establishment for both ladino clover and bermudagrass. The pellets could be stored for up to 6 months while maintaining good seed viability and Rhizobium trifolii viability. The seed can be accurately distributed at low rates from an aircraft equipped with a Meterate applicator (Elanco Products Co., Indianapolis, IN). Pellets sprayed with diammonium phosphate (dap) produced the best bermudagrass seedling establishment. The dap, when sprayed on ladino clover seed pellets, damaged the clover seedlings. The use of pelleted seed should increase precision and accuracy of seed distribution from an aircraft and should allow for the use of lower seeding rates.
23432930|A 0.2% KNO3 solution is the best moistening agent to use when viability testing beardless wildrye. Germination temperatures of 15-25 and 20 C provide equal estimations of germination when light is used with the 20 C temperature. Beardless wildrye germination was equal in light and dark environments when using the 15-25 C temperature. Prechilling prior to germination extends the testing period and does not improve germination percentages. Beardless wildrye germination at 15-25 or 20 C in a light environment with 0.2% KNO3 for 35 days provides the best viability estimate of all germination methods evaluated. A 35-day germination test may not be practical. Germination for 21 days followed by tetrazolium evaluation of remaining seeds is recommended.
23432821|Germination of pumpkin (Cucurbita moschata Poir, cv. Dickinson Field) seeds at various times after anthesis was associated with embryo axis weight and the amount of protein reserve. Embryo axis weight increased significantly between 25 and 30 days after anthesis but maximum germination did not occur until 45 days after anthesis. Synthesis of the protein reserve as measured by total globulin was initiated 25 days after anthesis and by 40 days the globulin fraction comprised 96% of the total seed protein (30 mg protein/seed). One major reserve globulin was synthesized at all times after anthesis and seed germination was positively correlated with the amount of reserve protein. It was suggested that this large protein reserve allows pumpkin seeds harvested 45 days after anthesis (116 mg dry wt./seed) to produce yields which are similar to large pumpkin seeds (200 mg dry wt./seed).
23432671|Biochemical research has been conducted at the National Seed Storage Laboratory to examine parameters important to plant germplasm viability. Emphasis was placed on the key respiratory enzyme cytochrome c oxidase. Studies using effector molecules to probe Phaseolus respiration on a variety of physiological levels (whole seed to isolated enzyme) showed a direct correlation between rate of respiration and vigor, and implicated oxidase in loss of vigor/viability. Recalcitrant seed storage in anesthetic atmospheres was shown to increase longevity. Infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy, with a variety of sampling techniques to accommodate (intact) biological samples, is a powerful analytical tool to examine biochemical structure/function relationships to plant germplasm viability. FTIR experiments conducted on suspension cultured cells showed measurement of CO2 production to be a noninvasive viability indicator. In pollen, structural changes in membrane lipids were correlated with imbibitional chilling injury, and distinct changes in structure and function were observed in vivo during germination. FTIR-photo-acoustic spectroscopy, which can detect CO2 production during minimal hydration of intact seed, holds promise as a new noninvasive viability assessment method.
23432659|Chemical treatment of soybean (Glycine max L.) seed exposed to prolonged wet, humid weather prior to harvest resulted in more improvement in cold soil tests than either standard germination tests or warm soil tests over untreated controls at varying levels of quality between 51 and 92% germination. However, results of all tests were generally improved by seed treatment, especially at the lower quality levels, as was field emergence. After six weeks of storage in warm, dry laboratory conditions, germination in all tests tended to increase and there was less difference between treated seed and untreated controls. Both laboratory and field performance were generally improved over untreated controls for all of 17 different combinations and concentrations of seed treatment chemicals. These results show the value of a wide range of chemical treatments in increasing the performance of soybean seed.
23432796|The leakage of solutes, including electrolytes, from seeds into water can be detected by measurement of the electrical conductivity of seed leachates. The level of leakage is influenced by the stage of seed maturation at time of harvest, the degree of seed ageing and the incidence of imbibition damage. The influence of these factors on leakage is discussed with particular emphasis on the role of deteriorated and damaged membranes in determining solute loss. The application of conductivity measurements to the prediction of the germination and vigour of seed lots is discussed.
23432684|Leachate conductivity of sand, shortleaf, slash, Scotch, loblolly, and Virginia pine (Pinus clausa, P. echinata, P. elliottii, P. sylvestris, P. taeda, and P. virginiana) seeds was measured using different imbibitions and rinse times. Conductivity levels, as measured in A, were greatest for Virginia and Scotch pine seeds imbibed for 48-hours and for sand pine seeds imbibed for 24-hours. Measurement of running-water rinses indicated that leachates for all species except slash pine are diluted and lost but are retained in the standing-water imbibition. Two-seeds-per-cell for shortleaf and loblolly pines and three-seeds-per-cell for Virginia pine seeds showed significant increases in conductivity readings when compared to the one-seed-per-cell values. The movement of solvent which affects solute concentration and its net movement through the seed coat are discussed. This discussion includes speculation on selective membrane permeability.
23432939|The ability to obtain seed quality population statistics from seed steep water conductivity measurements based on large sample sizes could lead to standardized conductivity indices for vigor and viability for a greater number of seed kinds. The ASAC-100 seed analyzer simultaneously measures the steep water conductivity of 100 individual seeds. By directly interfacing the ASAC-1000 with an IBM-PC computer using the BASIC program ASACSTAT, various analyses or experiments can be designed and large quantities of data collected for statistical analysis. In addition, ASACSTAT permits the ASAC-1000 to take readings automatically at predetermined intervals, allows a tray to be divided into any number of sections, gives a compressed printout and is easy to operate. The low cost of microcomputers makes such an analysis system affordable for seed testing laboratories and research institutions.
23432797|The concept and use of Maguire's (1962) index of germination rate (G.R.) was examined from both a practical and theoretic perspective and found to be unsatisfactory. Anomalies arose in that similar germination patterns gave rise to different values of G.R., and, conversely, each value of G.R. covered a wide range of germinations. The method did not conform to any accepted measure of germination rate and was found to be very sensitive to early germinating seeds but insensitive to later ones. In published literature, G.R. was nearly always very closely correlated with total germination. Thus, G.R. seems to be redundant and its use should be discouraged in favour of citing total percent germination which has the dual advantage of being unambiguous and possessed of clear biological meaning.
23430395|The first enduring use of vital stains for seed evaluation in America was initiated at Ohio State University in 1938 and involved selenium and tellurium salts. Knowledge of the existence and merits of tetrazolium, a non-poisonous vital indicator, was first received in America in 1945 from U. S. Military personnel who investigated research activities in Germany. Initial tetrazolium studies in America were by Iowa State University, Boyce Thompson Institute and Pioneer Hi-Bred Corn Company. Reports concerning partial successes, limitations and problems became available in 1948. Many of the obvious problems encountered during the early period of tetrazolium testing in America had been previously encountered and resolved in Germany. American investigators likewise needed time to experience, recognize and correct traditional misconceptions about seed life. Voids in knowledge had to be filled. Experiences had to be gained. Desired success in tetrazolium testing seemed slightly out of reach of early American investigators. Subsequent studies, especially at Iowa, Mississippi, North Carolina, and Oregon State Universities and at the Virginia State Seed laboratory, gradually provided segments of knowledge, experience and philosophy needed for perfection and successful use of the test for a large number of crops. The acceptance of the test by the Association of Official Seed Analysts in 1970 represented an important milestone in the science of seed evaluation in America. The test is now accepted as another useful method of evaluating seed quality. The tetrazolium test is sound, however, competent analysts are indispensable for its successful use.
23432667|'Oxley' cicer milkvetch (Astragalus cicer L.) seed lots harvested from a Lethbridge, Alberta nursery and stored in an uncontrolled room were used to study the effect of storage duration on hard seed content, germination, and indoor and field emergence. Seeds harvested in 1977 and 1981 to 1991 were also used to study the effect of repeated freeze-thaw treatments on the above traits. Hard seed content fell significantly with increasing age of seed lot and was accompanied by an increase in seed germination and emergence. Cicer milkvetch seeds maintained above 90% viability for 10 yr under uncontrolled storage conditions. Germination on day 7 was significantly correlated with the germination on subsequent days and emergence. Thus, a standard 7-d germination test is sufficient to separate seed lots with differential ability to establish a stand. Heavier seeds did not have a higher inherent germinability than the lighter seeds, but were easier to scarify. Freeze-thaw treatment reduced the hard seed content from 46 to 9% and significantly increased germination and emergence. Seed lots with more hard seeds needed more freeze-thaw cycles than seed lots with fewer hard seeds. Freeze-thaw treatments may be an improvement over mechanical scarification because there is no loss due to breakage, small seed lots can be used, all the seeds are exposed to the same level of treatment and there is less risk of damage to the embryo. The presence and location of the strophiole was verified using a new, rapid and non-destructive technique which can be used to predict hard seededness.
23432698|The Association of Official Seed Analysts' Rules for Testing Seeds do not contain methods for moisture testing. The oven methods in use by seed testing laboratories in the U.S. are diverse and may produce erroneous results when compared to the Karl Fischer method. The International Seed Testing Association Rules for Seed Testing contain oven testing methods for 95 kinds of seeds, but many of the methods are empirical in nature and lacking in accuracy. This research was initiated to develop more accurate oven methods for testing moisture content of seeds of temperate-climate grass species. The test variables investigated were oven temperature, time of drying, seed grinding, and original moisture level of the seed. The species included were perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne L.), orchardgrass (Dactylis glomerata L.), colonial bentgrass (Agrostis tenuis L.), Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis Huds.), tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreb.), and red fescue (Festuca rubra L.). Drying to constant weight at temperatures of 90, 100, 105C gave moisture percentages lower than the Karl Fischer value. Drying periods of 6 h or less at 130C gave moisture percentages in agreement with Karl Fischer results. Ground and whole seed gave similar moisture percentages after drying to constant weight, but moisture was removed more rapidly from ground seeds. The required drying time for greatest accuracy depended on the original moisture content of the seed. Moisture was removed most rapidly from the highest moisture seed; thus, it is not possible to select one drying period that will provide the same degree of accuracy on seed with different moisture levels. Seed moisture tests on these six temperate-climate grass species should be conducted on whole seed at 130C. The best compromise for drying periods are 3 h for perennial ryegrass, Kentucky bluegrass, tall fescue and red fescue; 1.5 h for orchardgrass; and 1 h for colonial bentgrass.
23432668|The National Seed Storage Laboratory (NSSL) opened for business in September of 1958 with the long-term mission of preserving the seed germplasm of those crops important to U.S. agriculture. The NSSL concept was a direct result of World War II, when it became apparent that germplasm may no longer be available, particularly from many foreign countries. Dr. Edwin James was named the first Head of the Laboratory and served until his retirement in 1970. His primary accomplishments included the administration of the new facility, generating publicity about the Laboratory, and initiating the acquisition and storage of seed samples. In addition, he conducted research on such topics as seed longevity and seed deterioration, including biochemical aspects of red cotyledon in lettuce and viability assessment using such tests as the glutamic acid decarboxlyase test. Dr. Louis N. Bass joined NSSL at its inception and was named Head in 1970, a post he held until his untimely death in 1986. Louis oversaw many dramatic changes in the Laboratory, such as the shift from storing seeds at 5C to storage at -18C, primarily as a result of his research on seed storage under various conditions of temperature, relative humidity and in different gases. Louis brought the Laboratory national and international recognition through his participation in the Association of Official Seed Analysts (AOSA) (President, Merit Award, editorial duties, numerous committees), the International Seed Testing Association (ISTA) (Associate Editor of Seed Science and Technology), the American Society of Agronomy (C-4 Chair and Board Representative, Fellow) and the International Board for Plant Genetic Resources. A bibliography of James' and Bass' primary publications while at NSSL is included.
23432640|The previously recommended box and jar accelerated aging systems were evaluated using soybeans. The number of seeds per sample affected the extent of accelerated aging. A small sample (200 seeds) deteriorated more rapidly than a large sample (400 seeds). Seeds placed in a wire-mesh basket in a jar failed to demonstrate uniform moisture absorption. Seeds located in the bottom one-third of the basket had higher moisture and lower germination percentages than seeds situated elsewhere. These data suggest that the accelerated aging seed vigor test can be improved by specifying the number of seeds per sample and positioning the seeds in a single layer in order to provide more uniform seed exposure to high relative humidity. The capability of the jar and tray accelerated aging systems to distinguish three vigor levels was compared. Both systems successfully delineated the three seed vigor levels at 96 hrs aging but the degree of deterioration was more marked in the tray system. The data revealed 48 hrs to be the optimum aging period for the tray system. Further studies indicated that the level of water in the trays up to 48 hrs aging had little influence on subsequent germination. The tray accelerated aging method is inexpensive, subjects all seeds to uniform aging conditions, and is more rapid than previously recommended procedures.
23433009|Magnetic conditioning of seed lots involves treating either with iron powder and moisture or with magnetic fluid. The treated mixture is passed over a magnetic drum separator. Effects of these conditioning methods in improving germination percentages of leek seeds were investigated. Low- and high-grade commercial leek seed lots cleaned in a commercial plant were used. Treatments included iron powder/moisture or magnetic fluid at two different dilutions7:1 and 4:1. A commercial, permanent magnetic drum separator, measuring 0.08 tesla magnetic flux density at its surface, was used to separate the magnetics from the nonmagnetics. Both magnetic and nonmagnetic fractions were weighed and seed counts were taken. Germination tests were carried out on all fractions. The 7:1 diluted magnetic fluid and the iron powder/moisture conditioning methods were effective in removing low-germinating seeds to meet acceptable marketing standards. The 4:1 diluted magnetic fluid was effective in removing low-germinating seeds, but produced excessive crop seed loss. Magnetic conditioning methods to improve germination were effective for high-grade leek seed lots but not for low-grade leek seed lots.
23432818|Seeds of Coffea arabica, 'Caturra', were kept under different storage conditions. When sealed hermetically in gas-proof foil packets and stored at 10 C, seeds with 43% moisture content maintained 74% viability for five months. At moisture contents of approximately 31% and 36%, seeds deteriorated much faster. Seeds kept 6 months in "open" storage at 10 C and in an atmosphere of 70 to 90% relative humidity (RH), resulting in a seed moisture content (s.m.c.) of 15 and 23%, respectively, maintained high viability (between 84 and 92%) over six months; whereas, most seeds died at 50% RH (9% s.m.c.) Drying to 6% s.m.c. quickly killed coffee seeds. Surprisingly, some 20-25% of the seeds at 13% s.m.c. survived over six months at -20 C, a temperature thought to be lethal to so-called recalcitrant seeds. Simple classification of seeds as either 'orthodox' or 'recalcitrant' does not take into account the more complex storage behavior of species such as coffee.
23432720|Osmoconditioning (OC) seed treatments were evaluated for effect on emergence of two soybean cultivars [Glycine max (L.) Merrill], 'Lee 74' and 'Forrest', under a simulated soil crust at 15 and 20C. Weighted pistons (60 g) were placed over planted seed 24 h after planting to simulate a soil crust. A specially designed apparatus featuring tubes containing seed planted in sand and the weighted piston was placed inside a controlled climate chamber. Data were collected for total and cumulative percent emergence, seedling and root development, and emergence force. The ability of a seedling to displace weight was an indicator of emergence force. For both cultivars, osmoconditioning seed with polyethylene glycol (PEG) plus GA3 showed positive effects in cumulative percentage emergence and emergence force. At 20C, mean percentage emergence (daily percentage emergence averaged over time) from seed treated in PEG plus GA3 was significantly (=0.05) greater than from untreated seed for Forrest and numerically greater for Lee 74. At 15C, seed treated in PEG plus GA3 showed significantly (=0.05) greater mean displacement (emergence force) versus untreated seed for both cultivars. At 20C, seed treated in PEG plus GA3 failed to show a significantly greater displacement mean than untreated seed for either cultivar. These results suggest that osmoconditioning plus GA3 may be beneficial for improved emergence of soybean under suboptimal temperature and simulated soil crust.
23432958|A two-way thermogradient plate (TGP) was used to test temperature response of two lots of loblolly pine (Pinus taeda L.), one dormant and the other nondormant. Both stratified and unstratified seeds were tested on 144 alternating or constant temperature regimes which ranged 14 to 33 C. Alternating temperatures in the range of 18-21 C (night) and 28-32 C (day) gave the quickest germination for unstratified seeds, thus confirming the suitability of the current ISTA prescription of 20/30 C for this species. Stratification widened the range of temperature at which germination was satisfactory, especially on the cooler part of the TGP. The best constant temperatures were 25 to 28 C; stratification widened the range to 22 to 28 C for the nondormant lot, but did not change this range for the dormant lot. Seeds in constant temperatures benefited more from stratification than did seeds in alternating temperatures.
23432904|A thiram seed soak reduced, but did not eliminate, Alternaria brassicicola (Schw.) Wilt. infection and damping-off symptoms from infected Brassica seed lots. It did not improve germination in blotter tests or field emergence but both the thiram and water soak treatments accelerated emergence under controlled conditions and in the field. The weight per seed was reduced in seeds produced on plants inoculated with A. brassicicola at either petal fall or midpod stages. No seeds from plants inoculated at petal fall germinated in either laboratory or field tests. Regardless of the stage of development when plants were inoculated, laboratory and field germination was reduced. Seeds from ripe pods showed no difference in emergence under optimal germination conditions in the laboratory in field soil, whether sprayed with water or inoculated with A. brassicicola. These data indicate that seed infection at any stage of seed development causes a reduction in seed quality. Effective control measures should be developed for the seed crop since eradicative seed treatments are ineffective in restoring loss of seed vigor and viability caused by A. brassicicola.
23432919|Seed dormancy in blue elderberry (Sambucus cerulea Raf.) limits the usefulness of this shrub for revegetation purposes. No germination occurred if the seed were germinated in water but applications of gibberellic acid (GA3) up to 10-2 M did stimulate germination. The effect of GA3 was enhanced very slightly by ethylene but not at all by oxygen. Treatments of seed with kinetin, potassium nitrate, ethephon, naphthalene acetic acid, hydrogen peroxide, or thiourea, as well as various scarification treatments, had no dormancy breaking effect. Stratification at 5 C for 100 days in water resulted in only 30% germination while stratification in 10-3 M GA3 for 20, 40, 60, and 100 days prior to germination in GA3 produced 50, 57, 72.5, and 75% germination, respectively, in 6 weeks. Germination in 10-4 M abscisic acid following stratification inhibited germination. Excised embryos germinated readily in GA3 but not in water. Following 24 hours leaching, the embryos germinated equally well in water and GA3. The dormancy appeared to be an inhibitor imposed embryo dormancy.
23432763|Phomopsis seed decay is a major cause of poor soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] seed quality in regions where the climate is warm and humid during and after seed maturation. Increasing pubescence density on soybean plants may increase retention of moisture in pods and seeds, and thereby influence seed infection by Phomopsis longicolla Hobbs. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of increased pubescence density on seed infection by P. longicolla and germination. Near-isogenic lines of two soybean cultivars, Clark and Harosoy, differing in pubescence density (normal vs. dense) were evaluated for seed-borne disease in 12 environments across four years (198588) in Maryland, Pennsylvania and Ohio. There were no significant differences between normal and dense pubescence isolines for seed infection by P. longicolla in nine environments and seed germination in 11 environments. In three environments where significant pubescence effects on seed infection were found, infection varied depending on the genetic background into which the dense pubescence gene has been introduced. Dense pubescence was generally associated with delayed maturity (nine of 12 environments) and increased plant height (eight of 12 environments). There was also slightly greater lodging in the plants with dense pubescence than in the normal pubescence isolines (four of 12 environments). Growing dense pubescence soybean in the eastern United States should not increase the potential for seed disease problems due to P. longicolla.
23432700|Effects of crop rotation on cold test germination of corn were studied using soils from one origin. Absolute germination percentages were only slightly influenced by crop rotation. Previously cropped soils did not give lower germination percentages than did soils that were never cropped with corn before. Soil moisture content influenced germination percentages of corn in the cold test to a great extent. Results obtained in the present study showed reduced germination in soil above 34% waterholding capacity.
23432768|Descriptions and drawings of seeds not illustrated in Agriculture Handbook 30 are provided for the following 14 grass species: Aegilops cylindrica Host, Amphibromus neesii Steud., Briza minor L., Calamovilfa longifolia (Hook.) Scribn., Chloris verticillata Nutt., Deschampsia danthonioides (Trin.) Munro ex Benth., Eriochloa aristata Vasey, Koeleria cristata (L.) Pers., Microstegium vimineum (Trin.) A. Camus, Muhlenbergia racemosa (Michx.) B.S.P., Panicum clandestinum L., Sorghastrum nutans (L.) Nash, Taeniatherum asperum (Simonkai) Nevski, Ischaemum rugosum Salisb.
23432933|Four laboratory tests were evaluated for their ability to predict the potential field emergence of snap beans (Phaseolus vulgaris L.). Standard germination, accelerated aging, cold soil test and conductivity test were conducted on commercial seed lots and the results were correlated with seedling emergence in two field plantings in 1982 and 1983. Cold test showed the highest significant correlation with all four field plantings followed by the conductivity tests. The accelerated aging and the germination test results correlated with the field emergence of the first planting in 1983. However, when the field emergence from 1982 and 1983 was combined and averaged across the two planting dates the accelerated aging test correlated with the field emergence. In a separate study conducted in 1983, seeds of 'Flo' were artificially aged for 0, 1, 2, 3 and 4 days. The values of cold and conductivity tests followed by the germination test were highly correlated with the field emergence.
23432710|Seeds of slash pine (Pinus elliottii Engelm. var. elliottii) were aged at 41 and 45C for periods ranging from 0 to 288 h, and their fatty acid composition during accelerated aging (AA) was analyzed to determine if a relationship existed between fatty acid changes and loss of seed germinability. Myristic, palmitic, stearic, oleic, linoleic, linolenic, arachidic, cis-eicosenoic, and eicosadienoic fatty acids were found in slash pine seeds subjected to AA at 41C. These same fatty acids, with the exception of myristic acid, were present in seeds aged at 45C. Two unknown fatty acids were detected at both temperatures. The saturated fatty acids fluctuated with no definite trend over time during AA at 41C, while linoleic and linolenic acids decreased with increasing period of AA. At 45C AA, saturated and unsaturated fatty acids significantly declined after 192 h. Loss of vigor as determined by percent germination preceded declines in fatty acids at 45C AA, while, at 41C, decline in fatty acids was accompanied by loss of vigor. Correlation analysis showed significant relationship of percent germination with total saturated and total unsaturated fatty acids after 48 and 96 h of AA at 41C.
23432787|Poor seedling survival reduces the effectiveness of revegetation efforts utilizing woody plants. Seedling survival might be increased by faster post-germination growth. To explore the relationship between germination rate and post-germination growth, we studied four species of woody plants that are important to western range and forest lands, and that exhibit different embryo morphologies. The seeds were germinated using standard methods. Germination and seedling axial elongation were measured daily for 30d. Data were analyzed by linear regression. Mean germination time was 11.3, 7.9, 3.8 and 1.3d for Cercocarpus montanus, Pinus ponderosa, Purshia tridentata, and Artemisia tridentata, respectively. Post-germination cumulative growth was significantly related to time-to-germination through 10d of seedling growth for Artemisia, Purshia and Cercocarpus, and through 15d of growth for Pinus. The regression line was positive for Purshia and negative for the other species. The results imply that time-to-germination might be used as a basis for culling inferior germinants/seedlings of several species of woody plants, however, it is most likely to be successfully applied to Pinus, or to seeds with similar embryo morphology.
23432917|Seeds of cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L., cvs. 'SP 37', 'Coker 312', 'Coker 310', and 'Coker 201') were obtained from plots treated with 0, 0.035, 0.07, and 0.14 kg/ha of diflubenzuron [1-(4-chlorophenyl)-3-(2,6-difluorobenzoyl) urea] at Lubbock and New Deal, Texas and Santa Fe and Sanford, Florida, respectively. Seed viability was determined by the standard germination test and seed vigor was determined by accelerated aging and the cold test. Diflubenzuron did not adversely affect seed viability or vigor in cotton. 'Coker 312' seeds from plots treated with 0.035 and 0.07 kg/ha of diflubenzuron produced a higher percentage of normal seedlings than did control seeds following accelerated aging. Germination, emergence and seedling height of 'Coker 310' from plots treated with all rates of diflubenzuron were significantly greater than for control seeds in the cold treatment. The results of standard germination test of 'Coker 310' seeds from plots treated with 0.14 kg/ha and with 0.07 and 0.14 kg/ha of diflubenzuron following accelerated aging were also higher than those of the control seeds.
23430400|Samples from 140 commercial seedlots of Penngift crownvetch produced by one producer over the period 1968 to 1974 inclusive were measured to determine seed weight and packing density (volume weight). Mean weight per 1,000 seeds at 10% moisture was 3.657 g and seeds per kg 273,600 (124,400 seeds/lb). Mean packing density was 0.795 g/cc. For all seedlots combined, weight/1,000 seeds, packing density, percentage hard seeds, and percentage total germination (ready germination plus hard seeds) were significantly correlated at the 1% level. Seedlots produced during years with above normal rainfall during the growing season and below normal accumulated heat units and solar and sky radiation were somewhat lower in content of hard seeds and total germination than lots produced during years with normal to below normal rainfall and normal to higher than normal accumulations of heat units and solar and sky radiation.
23432683|An automated seedling length measurement analysis has been developed for use with a CASAS (Computerized Automated Seed Analysis System), in which a seed germination test sample is scored for both germination and vigor (as indicated by seedling or seedling part length). The methodology of the analysis is applicable to most major crop seeds. Seedlings from paper towel or sand type germination tests, or cold tests may be analyzed. A microcomputer was interfaced to a hand potentiometric caliper via an analog/digital converter. The caliper measures the length of normal seedlings, and a hand button switch is used to log the measurement in the computer. Enumeration of the counts was used to determine standard germination values. Means of seedling numbers measured, percent seedlings per replicate and analysis, and mean seedling length in cm are computed. Use of the automated analysis, compared to a manual equivalent analysis, resulted in a 50% savings in analyst time. The computer program is in the BASIC language.
23432691|Imbibition, the uptake of water by the dry seed, involves absorption of water by cell wall and protoplasmic macromolecules, i.e., proteins and polysaccharides, wherein water molecules are "held" by electrostatic forces such as hydrogen bonds. The movement of water into the seed is due to diffusion and capillary action with water moving from a region of higher to lower water potential. Of the three components of seed water potential, i.e., osmotic potential, matric potential, and turgor pressure, it is the matric potential of cell walls and their contents which is primarily responsible for imbibition. Permeability of the testa, or seed coat, is a major factor controlling the rate of water uptake. Although necessary, imbibition is a period of peril: rapid uptake of water may cause imibibitional injury, cold temperatures may cause chilling injury, anaerobic conditions may lead to accumulation of toxic chemicals, and leaching of cellular constituents into the soil may stimulate microbial attack. Low vigor legume seeds with permeable seed coats are especially susceptible to imbibitional injury. The imbibition period offers opportunity as well as hazard. Seeds may be primed for increased vigor by imbibing and then drying back. High membrane permeability during early imbibition may facilitate insertion of germination-promoting and anti-pathogen chemicals into seed tissues. This review covers: The physical process of imbibition, the seed coat as a protection against imbibitional injury, membrances during imbibition relative to seed vigor, leachates as indicators of vigor, and use of the imbibition period to improve vigor.
23432751|A float-sink technique to separate seeds by density differences is described. Mixtures of hexane and chloroform were used to obtain solutions of 0.66 to 1.47 g/cc, respectively. Wheat (Triticum aestivum L. 'York-star') and lettuce (Lactuca sativa L. 'Ithaca') seeds were separated into density fractions of 1.30 to 1.45 g/cc in 0.05 increments and 1.12 to 1.18 g/cc in 0.02 increments, respectively. Seed protein content and density were positively correlated in wheat. No phytotoxicity was observed from the organic solvents. Seeds of five tree species were separated into two density fractions. The cutting test was performed to determine the percent filled seed. The more dense fraction in all species had the greatest percent filled seed.
23430404|The three-parameter Weibull function can be used to compare germination responses and to quantify the differences for use in statistical analyses. Data from germination of several lots of white oak and sweetgum were used to illustrate how the Weibull parameters reflect quantitative differences in seed vigor. Besides vigor comparisons, other possible uses of the Weibull are in tests of prechill treatments, chemical treatments, and varietal or geographic seed source differences.
23432943|Three experiments were conducted to measure effects of preharvest sprouting of two soft white and two soft red winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivars on germination, storability and field performance in 1985 and 1986. Eight levels of sprouting were studied. At higher sprouting levels, seed of red cultivars maintained germinability better than that of white cultivars for the first 6wk. After 8wk, no differences in germination occurred. Exposure of unthreshed heads to moisture caused sprouting, accompanied by a gradual decrease in germination of the white cultivar Augusta. The red cultivar Hillsdale resisted sprouting and maintained a high germination level for 12wk of storage. As number of sprouted seeds increased, germination decreased. Seeds of the red cultivar Hillsdale, with sprouting damage up to a split in the pericarp over the embryo could be safely stored for 3mo and planted without affecting field performance. However, any sprouting damage significantly reduced the yield of the white cultivar, Augusta.
23432750|Seeds of fescue (Festuca arundinacea L.) perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne L.), sericea lespedeza (Lespedeza cuneata Dum. - Cours.), and red clover (Trifolium pratense L.) were germinated in a slurry of various concentrations of woodchip-newspaper mulch. The germination percentage of all species except fescue was reduced in this media. The water was removed from the mulch (leachate) and germination of red clover and lespedeza seed was reduced in the mulch alone. No reduction in germination with the leachate was noted. The mulch contained high concentrations of boron and germination of all species was reduced when germinated in similar concentrations of boric acid alone. Under field conditions, all species tested gave an equal amount of vegetative cover with all mulch rates. After 5 months, over 70% vegetative cover was obtained and this increased to over 90% in 1 year.
23432916|Most of the cottonseed (Gossypium hirsutum L.) delinting done on the High Plains of Texas uses the anhydrous hydrochloric acid procedure. Approximately 900 kg are delinted in each batch. A modified batch procedure was developed to accommodate the small sample sizes (e.g. 10-5000 g) often used for experimental purposes. The small sample procedure was considered representative of the technique that most commercial operations utilize. A small scale anhydrous hydrochloric acid delinting system was designed for this study and tested in the laboratory. It was concluded that, utilizing this system, an acid exposure time of 8 min provided the best compromise between ease of lint removal and minimum seed damage. Times in excess of 8 min reduced germination (37 % at 16 min) while times less than 8 min did not facilitate complete lint removal.
23432814|This study was conducted to measure the rate of seed deterioration of canola under different storage conditions and evaluate different methods of measuring deterioration. Seed lots of spring canola cultivar, Topas, and two winter cultivars, Liborius and Libravo, were artificially aged to produce sub-lots of three different quality levels. All lots were stored for two years under two environments: 5C/75% RH and 22C/30% RH. Standard germination, cold tests, and conductivity tests were used to determine seed deterioration after 4, 10, 17, and 24 months of storage. As the initial quality of seed decreased, its relative storability decreased. The results of all three quality evaluation tests for all lots, with some exceptions, did not decrease significantly during the first 10 months of storage. A gradual decline in seed quality occurred during the following 14 months. All tests were suitable for assessing canola seed quality. The results of all tests were significantly correlated with each other. The study demonstrated the importance of testing the quality of artificially aged seed lots stored for more than ten months under such storage conditions.
23430393|Sixty-three soybean cultivars were grown in the laboratory under high intensity light and in the field. Six cultivar specific seedling pigmentation patterns were observed. Variation in pigmentation patterns due to the effect of different light intensities and nutrient solutions were detected. Results indicate that identification of seedling pigmentation patterns is a valuable approach for differentiating soybean cultivars.
23432734|A program using a programmable calculator and printer has been developed in conjunction with a ratio analysis procedure to speed tolerance evaluation of two component turfgrass mixtures.
23432718|Indian ricegrass (Oryzopsis hymenoides (Roem. & Schult.) Ricker) exhibits two types of seed dormancy: mechanical, which persists as long as the seed coat is not ruptured, and physiological, believed to be a result of low levels of endogenous giberellins in freshly harvested seed. Six accessions were tested for germination with lemma and palea present (intact seed) and absent (naked seed). Seeds were planted on blotter paper and prechilled for 4 wk at 5C before the 3-wk 15C(9 h)/5C(15 h) test. Seeds were less than six mo old when evaluated and exhibited more physiological dormancy than mechanical dormancy. Differences among the accessions were observed for germination of intact and naked seed. Germination of intact and naked seed from the same accession was positively correlated. Mechanical dormancy and physiological dormancy were negatively correlated across accessions.
23432828|Eight oat (Avena sativa L.) cultivars were characterized using polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis to obtain protein, esterase, and peroxidase banding patterns from unimbibed seed extracts. A total of ten protein bands were resolved and six (Clintford, Clintland, Dal, Lang, Rodney, Stout) of the eight oat cultivars could be differentiated from each other based on the presence or absence of protein bands. Noble and Otee possessed identical protein banding patterns and could not be separated from each other. Esterase electrophoresis revealed a total of four bands for the cultivars. The cultivar Noble contained bands B, C, and D while Otee possessed bands A, B, and C which enabled separation of these cultivars. Thus, a combination of protein and esterase electrophoresis allowed a complete differentiation and characterization of the eight oat cultivars examined. Peroxidase electrophoresis revealed a total of three bands for all cultivars with the exception of Dal which possessed only one band. This study demonstrates that electrophoresis of seed proteins can be used to supplement present field testing techniques for the characterization and rapid identification of oat cultivars.
23432918|Seeds of Drymaria arenarioides Humboldt & Bonpland ex Roemer & Schultes, recently named a noxious-weed seed in Arizona, and seeds of D. pachyphylla Wooton & Standley, as well as achenes and capitula of Crupina vulgaris Cassini, a recently introduced weed into Idaho and California, are described and illustrated.
23432922|Russian olive (Elaeagnus angustifolia L.) seeds normally require about 90 days prechill to initiate germination and another 28 days at the germination temperature for evaluation. An accurate analysis can be made by soaking the seed seven days in water to make the pericarp soft enough to cut then excise the embryo and remove the inner seed coat. Results will be complete in ten days from the beginning of the soak. The same results may be obtained with less intensive treatments but longer germination periods. Removal of 2 mm of each end will provide results in about 17 days and removal of only the radicle end requires about 21 days for a complete analysis.
23432934|Descriptions and drawings of fruit structures of the Apiaceae (Umbelliferae) not illustrated in Agriculture Handbook No. 30 are provided for three taxa: Anthriscus caucalis Bieb., Torilis arvensis (Huds.) Link subsp. arvensis and T. arvensis (Huds.) Link subsp. purpurea (Ten.) Hayek. Additional drawings are included of the polymorphic fruit of Torilis nodosa (L.) Gaertner. Nomenclatural corrections are provided for six taxa in this family which are illustrated in Agriculture Handbook No. 30 (U.S. Department of Agriculture 1952).
23432712|Freeze-thawing has been established as an effective method to decrease hard-seededness and increase germination of alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.), but has not been adopted commercially. Since this technique appears to offer technical advantages compared to many other methods of scarifying alfalfa seed, this study evaluates the major costs involved in it's commercial application. An experiment with two cultivars (Apica and Barrier) and different numbers of freeze-thaw cycles indicated that maximum germination occurred following two freeze-thaw cycles. A freeze-temperature experiment with the two cultivars indicated that -61C was as effective at increasing germination as -80C following one freeze thaw cycle and nearly as effective following three freeze-thaw cycles. A freeze temperature of -61C has an advantage over -80C, as liquid carbon dioxide can be used to obtain this freezing temperature. Freezing equipment exists that can use either liquid carbon dioxide or liquid nitrogen and this could be incorporated as an additional step into a process where seed is being moved about on conveyors. For liquid carbon dioxide, the carbon dioxide represents about 73% of the cost while the capital cost and maintenance of equipment represents about 27% of the cost. The greater the quantity of seed scarified, the lower is the unit cost of scarification. Our estimates of cost suggest that treatment of 1,000,000 kg of seed or more annually would result in an increase of about 1% in the retail value of the seed.
23432738|Seeds may carry disease on their surfaces or within their tissues and may act as vectors introducing plant diseases to uninfested areas. Fungi are the most commonly isolated pathogens of seeds. Various methods for the detection of seed borne fungal pathogens including incubation tests, non-cultural techniques and virulence tests are discussed.
23432785|Seed dormancy levels of 18 and 12% were detected for Indy and Meyer cultivars of crambe (Crambe abyssinica Hochst. ex. R.E. Fries), respectively, when tested according to current Association of Official Seed Analysts (AOSA) "Rules for Testing Seeds". Prechill treatments at 5C and 10C for 5d were unable to break seed dormancy completely. Gibberellic acid at the 0.05% concentration and 0.2% KNO3 as substrate moistening agents reduced seed dormancy levels to 0 and 2%, respectively. However, gibberellic acid did increase abnormal seedlings and reduced seed lot viability (germination plus dormancy percentages). Distilled water and 0.2% KNO3 as substrate moistening agents produced comparable seed lot viabilities. The latter treatment, however, reduced dormant seed levels to 2% compared with 12% for distilled water. Presence of light during the germination testing period, compared with absence of light, increased 4d germination percentages but not 7d germination percentages. Temperature regimes of 20C and 25C did not affect germination significantly across all viability parameters. The dormancy mechanism of crambe seems related primarily to physical restrictions.
23432732|A technique using a semi-selective medium and serological test (SSMS) was developed for the detection of internally-borne Xanthomonas blight bacteria in bean seed. The semi-selective medium permitted the growth of Xanthomonas to high population levels in the presence of contaminating organisms while the serological test was highly specific for Xanthomonas bacteria. The new technique consistently detected greater levels of internal Xanthomonas contamination in bean seed lots than the seedling injection technique presently used by the Michigan Department of Agriculture.
23432736|Seed transmission, important in introducing, selectively perpetuating, and randomly distributing plant pathogens, is affected by the physical environment and by seed and soil microflora. Transmission may be prevented by seed-field culture and inspection, seed indexing and separatory procedures, chemical treatment, and thermotherapy. Aerated-steam treatment, followed by polyethylene glycol "invigoration" is a promising new method of eradicating seed-borne pathogens.
23432681|Increased use of the California deserts has resulted in plant and soil degradation which can best be minimized by revegetation with shrubs. However, due to the erratic seed production of desert plants, seed may not be available for collection from the wild when needed. Therefore, native seed banks are necessary to assure availability. In this study seed from 22 species of Mojave desert shrubs were placed in four storage environments. Dried seed were placed in glass jars that were hermetically sealed and then stored at -15C, 4C, or room temperature, and the results compared to typical warehouse storage conditions. For most species, germination of seeds from warehouse storage was significantly lower. After 9 years, the long term germination percentages for most of the species was unchanged or increased from the original values under one or more sealed storage conditions. Hard seededness was induced in Cassia armata when dried and sealed at all temperatures. Sealed storage of dry seed rather than storage temperature appeared to be the most important factor for increasing the storage life of the seed.
23432802|Tests with the ASA-610 and ASAC-1000 Automatic Seed Analyzers indicate that these instruments can provide valid estimates of pine seed quality based on electrical conductivity of seed leachate. Conductivity data can be used to predict laboratory germination of loblolly pine to within 6.5 percent and slash pine to within 7.2 percent. Significant correlation of conductivity measurements with nursery emergence was also demonstrated. Limited data indicated that the method should also be satisfactory with other pine species.
23432638|Several factors with potential to cause variations in results of the conductivity test for soybean seed (Glycine max (L.) Merr) vigor were investigated. The ion content in the filter paper increased the conductivity and its effect depended upon the kind of filter paper and the volume of filtrate used. The use of tap water increased the conductivity compared to the use of deionized water. The variation in the size of a soaking container had no significant effect on the conductivity. When seeds were soaked at various temperatures, conductivity increased as temperature increased. The seed size showed a slight effect in one seed lot but not in another. Low initial seed moisture content (8.8% or less) and injured seed caused a significant increase in the conductivity. The conductivity test for soybean seed vigor should be conducted without filtration and with uninjured seeds having a moisture content of 13% or higher.
23432748|A Dynamic Conductometric Analysis of peanut seed (Arachis hypogaea L.) has been developed. The analysis is programmed into the CASAS (Computerized Automated Seed Analysis System), and requires a three hour time period. A linear model of total ionic leaching from the seed is derived from a sample under analysis, for comparison with a general population model for commercial acceptability based upon a 70% germination equivalence criterion. After initial startup and calibration of the equipment, the analysis is under control of the CASAS.
23432647|Vegetable production has changed in the last 300 years because of improvements in the quality (germination and vigor) of seeds. When seeds are placed in the hostile environment of the soil, as short an interval from planting to emergence is essential to reduce the stresses placed on the seed from temperature, moisture, microorganisms and pesticides. In the production of transplants, seed germination and especially vigor are also important for subsequent uniform and vigorous growth in the field. New planting equipment and techniques have been developed which are more efficient and/or precise requiring less labor for both vegetable transplanting and seed sowing. Modern planters have evolved which place seeds at a uniform depth and coverage without appreciable seed damage. Planters now employ belts, discs, vacuum, and cups as mechanisms for depositing seeds from the planter box to the soil furrow. The gel seeding (fluid drilling) technique offers many options for increasing seed germination, uniform emergence and higher yields. Continued research related to stand establishment will insure future improvements in the establishment and yield of vegetables.
23430398|Several lots of squash (Cucurbita pepo L.) seeds submitted for germination testing rotted during the tests. Rhizopus, Mucor, Pythium, Fusarium and Chaetomium were isolated from infested seed lots. A Pythium subsequently identified as P. aphanidermatum caused the rot in germination tests. Noninfested Butternut squash seeds planted in sand infested with P. aphanidermatum oospores were also killed.
23430401|The blotter and guaiacol agar methods were used in a referee test to detect Helminthosporium oryzae and Trichoconis padwickii in 10 lots of rice seeds. The guaiacol agar method was judged to be more sensitive than the blotter method for detection of H. oryzae since a significantly higher percentage of this fungus was detected with it. However, the guaiacol agar method was not more sensitive than the blotter method for the detection of Trichoconis padwickii. The standard deviations were only slightly smaller for the guaiacol agar method than for the blotter method. With both methods, mean percent infection differed significantly among laboratories and indicated that neither method was completely satisfactory for detecting these two pathogens.
23433004|Six time-of-harvest trials were conducted over a 3-year period to define the optimum time at which the seed crop of onion (Allium cepa L.) should be harvested. Individual plots were harvested over a 7- to 16-day period beginning when the first capsules dehisced. Yield increased as either a linear or quadratic function of time. Percent shattering umbels increased nearly logarithmically over time, whereas average individual seed weight increased linearly. Actual losses due to shattering were inconsequential until 25% or more of the umbels were losing seed. Growers were harvesting 2 to 5 days earlier than optimum. There was no advantage to selectively harvesting shattering umbels, compared to a once-over harvest at 25-30% shattering. Seed quality was not significantly affected by harvest date.
23432729|The variability among peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.) seed germination tests performed at three locations was determined. Relationships between laboratory germination tests and field emergence were also assessed using samples from 10 seed lots. The mean seed germination percentage of the three laboratories was significantly different (p = 0.01) and ranged from 78.3 to 85.7%. The variation in germination percentage of subsamples from the same seed lot was also significantly different (p = 0.01) as measured by the three laboratories. The differences in germination percentage betwen samples from the same seed lot ranged from 2 to 16%. This variation among samples within a seed lot indicated that a single test of seed germination is not a reliable estimate of the quality of a seed lot. Seedling emergence in the field averaged about 20% less than the mean of the germination tests. Field emergence ranged from a low average of 43% to a high average of 71%. Average field emergence and the mean of laboratory tests were significantly correlated (r = 0.88), indicating that the mean of several germination tests is an excellent indicator of relative seed quality of a peanut seed lot.
23432685|The effect on seed yield and quality of 2-week periods of moisture treatment during seed development and maturation were investigated. Seeds of soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] cv. Elf were sown 3.5 cm deep at a rate of 9 seeds/m of row in rows 0.17 m apart in 1980. Plots three m2 were formed when plants had 3 nodes on the main stem. Moisture treatments began when plants bore a flower at the node immediately below the uppermost node having a completely unrolled leaf. Plot treatments were of 2 weeks duration and consisted of 2.5 cm of irrigation per week or covering with a portable plastic house to withhold moisture. There were four, 2-week treatment periods during flowering and seed development and two replicates of each treatment. At maturity, plots were sampled to estimate pods per plant, seeds per pod, abortions within the pods, yield and seed size. Seed germination was estimated by sandbench emergence and seed vigor was estimated by the accelerated aging test. Field emergence of seeds was determined during June, 1981. The growing season of 1980 was the hottest on record because of the number of days that the temperature attained or exceeded 32.2C. Seed quality was good as measured by sandbench emergence and field emergence, but the accelerated aging test showed that seed from plots where moisture was withheld during pod fill were low in vigor. The last two treatment periods occurred during pod fill and the plots covered by plastic houses had significantly less yield than the corresponding irrigated plots. The covered plots at the end of pod fill were the only plots with a significantly smaller seed size. The basal seed most frequently aborted. It was concluded that reduced moisture during seed development reduced yield by reducing seed number and size.
23432728|The ASA-610 is a new commercial instrument developed to rapidly predict seed germination. This study was designed to determine whether the ASA-610 could predict soybean germination and which test variables influence ASA-610 results. A positive correlation (+0.96) existed between ASA-610 current (A/seed) values and conductivity (mhos/seed) results indicating that the instrument monitors seed leachate. Standardization studies using salt solutions revealed that cell fluid level and solution temperature altered ASA-610 determinations. Analyses of soybean seed evaluations showed that soak temperature, seed size, and initial seed moisture content influenced instrument performance. The seed treatments captan, captan + thiram, and Vitavax 200 failed to have an effect on ASA-610 results. In a test of fifty soybean seed lots, the ASA-610 accurately predicted the germination of seeds which were high (>80%) or low (<20%) in germination but not of seeds which germinated between 60 and 80%.
23432961|Prehydration of soybean seed resulted in an average 3.6% increase in germination for 100 soybean lots. The prehydration treatment resulted in an increase in moisture ranging from 2.2% to 8.3% with a similar response to prehydration occurring at all moisture levels. The response to prehydration decreased as mechanical damage levels increased. The initial moisture content of the seed had no effect on the response to prehydration. Water content increased in the seed at a linear rate of 0.2% per hour in the prehydration chamber under the conditions of this study. This contrasted sharply with imbibition of 4.5% per hour for non-prehydrated seed on Kimpak. The prehydration of soybean seed prior to germination may reduce or prevent imbibition injury.
23432975|Thirty-four 1984 pea cultivars and 43, 1985 cultivars were evaluated for the presence of hollow heart. All cultivars had the disorder, but incidence and severity were variable. For 1984 seedlots, percent severe hollow heart ranged from 4-75% with a mean of 30%, and for 1985 seed, the range was 5-78% with a mean of 36%. Soaking seed for 24 hr in deionized water and incubating for 6 days in damp germinating paper produced maximum symptom expression. Significantly more hollow heart developed when seed was incubated at -1/3 bar than either -1 or -3 bars. There was also more hollow heart in seed incubated at 7C than at 24C. However, at 24C there were more rotten seed. Differences in percent severe hollow heart at various incubation temperatures could be explained by the number of rotted seed at each temperature. The development and importance of hollow heart depends on the percentage of predisposed seed and soil moisture during germination.
23432731|Procedures for characterizing seed lots (i.e., by mean and variation of days to germination, peak germination date, and other useful properties) are commonly complicated because frequency of days to germination does not have a normal distribution. A procedure is presented for minimizing this problem. Tests of a seed lot of Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii (Mirb.) Franco) subjected to differing stratification periods and germination temperatures indicated that it is the rates at which seed embryos develop toward germination rather than days to germination that have a normal distribution. Consequently, by transforming cumulative percentages of germination to probits (a means for converting a normal sigmoid curve to a straight line) and fitting a straight line to probits regressed on rates rather than on daysor by plotting percentages on probit-scaled graph paperthe resulting intercept and regression coefficient can be used to easily calculate all the standard properties for characterizing a seed lot.
23432742|Seedsmen attempt to reduce seed-borne pathogen levels by planting disease-free stock seed and careful inspection of both seed fields and seed lots. When seed-borne pathogens are detected the seed lot may be treated, destroyed or specially labeled. Seedsmen cannot guarantee absolute freedom from seed-borne pathogens.
23432695|The distribution of soybean seed size is presented and one method of dividing soybean seed lots into sizes is discussed and evaluated. Number of soybean seed per pound (kg) ranged from slightly over 3,000 per pound (7,000 per kg) to slightly over 4,000 per pound (9,000 per kg) both within cultivars and among cultivars. Seed were sized with a precision grader. Damaged caused by sizing was negligible.
23432903|Soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merrill) seed must be stored and the quality maintained from harvest in the fall until planting time in the spring. These studies were conducted to evaluate the relationship between laboratory tests of vigor and the storage potential of soybean seed. Three seed lots of each of 4 cultivars ('Williams', 'Cutler 71', 'Dare', and 'York') were selected to provide lots that were high in viability as measured by standard germination but had a range in vigor as measured by the accelerated aging germination test. All seed lots were stored at 10.5 and 13.5% moisture content (MC) in controlled environment chambers. The temperature in the chambers was adjusted to follow the average temperature from November 1 to August 1 for the central U.S. Samples were collected for viability and vigor determinations after 1, 4, 6 and 9 months in storage. The initial standard germination of all lots except one was above 85% while the initial accelerated aging germination ranged from 33.5 to 95%. The initial rate of germination (4-day count) was closely related to the standard germination but averaged 5 percentage points lower. The accelerated aging test was most sensitive to deterioration during storage followed by the rate of germination and the standard germination was the least sensitive. The accelerated aging test was an excellent predictor of storability and the relationship between the initial accelerated aging germination and deterioration during storage was similar for all cultivars.
23432745|Eight seed lots of Johnsongrass had a mean germination of 46% after a 35-day standard germination. The tetrazolium tests, however, indicated a mean germination potential of 71% for these eight seed lots. A 30-min scarification with sulfuric acid (95-98%) induced nearly complete germination within 10 days. The germination mean was 73% for acid scarified seeds. Seeds scarified between sandpaper resulted in similar germination levels, but testing results varied significantly among experiments. ATP content in imbibed seeds was increased prior to radical protrusion by acid scarification. Acid scarification not only shortened the testing time but also produced more uniform results than the standard germination method. Thus, the acid scarification procedure should be considered in the AOSA rules for testing johnsongrass seeds.
23432990|Heterogeneity testing of commercial seed lots before bagging could substantially reduce the number of "stop sales" on seed lots having numbers of noxious weed seeds or percentages of weed or other crop seeds in inspection samples out of tolerance with labeled numbers. However, because of high costs of testing and presently unavoidable delays in obtaining results, heterogeneity tests are seldom made. Experiments were run to determine what might be done to increase the use and usefulness of heterogeneity tests. Poorly-, intermediate-, and well-mixed batches of alfalfa and rape seed were tested for heterogeneity with respect to indicator seeds (seeds identical to the principal seed but marked for easy detection). Alfalfa seed was also tested for heterogeneity with respect to three weed seed species. Two controllable variables were found to be critical to the outcome of a heterogeneity test: (1) average number of indicator or weed seeds per sample and (2) the number of samples examined in a heterogeneity test. Small numbers in either category can lead to wrong declarations of homogeneity in lots that are truly heterogeneous. The hypothesis is advanced that indicator seed heterogeneity test results can be used as a reliable predictor of heterogeneity with respect to weed seed count, hard seed percentage, or count or percentage of any other seed lot component or attribute. Heterogeneity testing of a seed lot with indicator seeds can lead to a high degree of probability that seed tags will correctly describe the seed in each bag of the lot.
23432977|A selective review is presented of some major historical events in the development of seed pathology with an emphasis on testing techniques. Most references are to those scientists who were members of the Association of Official Seed Analysts from the early twentieth century onward. Special recognition is given to the works of several plant pathologists at the University of Minnesota and in the Danish Institute of Seed Pathology.
23432699|Prechilled and unchilled seeds of three conifer species (douglas fir, DF; scotch pine, SP; and sitka spruce, SS) were incubated over a range of constant temperatures (10 to 40C). Three weeks prechilling broadened the range of temperatures over which DF seeds could germinate, and for all three species improved the maximum percentage germination at some, if not most temperatures. None of the seeds ever germinated at 40C. Prechilled seeds were always quicker to germinate than unchilled seeds. The results are discussed in relation to various authors' concepts of 'relative dormancy'; and their practical significance to seed physiologists, plant producers, and geneticists is considered.
23430402|Western wheatgrass, Agropyron smithii (Rydb.), seed was tested by four seed treatment methods differing from the standard germination procedure (darkness, alternating temperature) to determine their relative effectiveness in breaking dormancy. Exposure to a constant 24 C temperature or to fluorescent white light strongly inhibited germination. Exposure to far red light produced an effect similar to complete darkness. Red light was partially effective in breaking dormancy, but exposures exceeding eight minutes delayed the release from dormancy. A 0.2% KNO3 solution was more effective in breaking dormancy than either gibberellic acid or kinetin. Tetrazolium tests showed that none of the above treatments were completely effective in breaking dormancy.
23432827|The standard germination test is the one test that is being widely used by every seed testing laboratory to check the viability of seeds. However, significant variations in results exist between laboratories. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of various amounts of moisture in the paper towel on standard germination test results. Germination of various varieties and lots of hybrid sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L. Monech) and hybrid corn (Zea mays L.) seeds were evaluated using water at 2, 2.5, and 3 times the weight of paper towel. In all cases, the lowest amount of water gave maximum germination and as the water increased in the medium germination decreased. In sorghum, the decrease in germination at the 2.5 moisture level was 1 to 6% and at the 3, 5 to 9%. In corn, this effect was more dramatic. Germination reduction at 2.5 level was 0 to 27% and at 3, 6 to 35%.
23432716|Germination of green needlegrass (Stipa viridula Trin.) seed was increased 24% by acid scarification with 95% sulfuric acid for 6 to 12 mins. Additions of 0.055% gibberellic acid (GA3) and 0.46% tetramethylthiuram disulfide (Thiram) as the blotter moistening solution produced germination equal to tetrazolium viability (86%). This treatment improved germination by removing seed dormancy and controlling saprophytic fungi. The average germination response of 10 seed lots treated in this manner was 86% after only 14 d in dark conditions at 15-30C compared to 42% following a 14 d prechill (5C) and 21 d germination (15-30C) as recommended by the Association of Official Seed Analysts Rules for Testing Seeds. Acid scarification, GA3, and Thiram fungicide treatment is an accurate method for obtaining green needlegrass seed germination which is equal to tetrazolium viability.
23432650|Cotyledonal- or transverse-cracking (TVC) in certain cultivars of snapbean, Phaseolus vulgaris L., seeds, clearly evident during germination, places affected seedlings at a competitive disadvantage. TVC is an inherited trait and occurs across cell walls of cotyledons rather than along the cell walls. This study examines the hypothesis that TVC results from the swelling of storage proteins in seeds during imbibition. One hundred seeds were selected randomly from each of 17 seed lots. Each bulk sample weighed 225 g; 15 cultivars were represented. Separated proteins were subjected to electrophoresis under denaturing and non-denaturing conditions, and the molecular weights of the different protein bands were determined. Differences in patterns of polyacrylamide gel electrophoretograms of proteins from resistant and susceptible cultivars are reported. Different protein banding patterns were identified and correlations with the TVC phenomenon were attempted. There were visual differences between banding patterns of resistant and susceptible cultivars, although it is not clear which protein bands are associated with the TVC phenomenon. The technique requires further refinement before plant breeders can use it to screen for TVC-resistant snapbean cultivars.
23432697|Seeds of Pterocarpus macrocarpus Kurz collected in Thailand in December 1984 from six different provinces were investigated for germination in response to variable temperatures. Different germination patterns were observed among the six stands. The sensitivity and tolerance to temperatures during germination, which were determined by the area within 80% germination isolines, appeared under the influence of ecological climate rather than geographic location. A wide range of temperature tolerance was observed among stands from cool and warm climates. Seeds originating in the warmer climate tolerated high germination temperatures better. However, all seed lots were identical in their optimum temperature regime (30/25C day-night alternation) for maximum total germination with the overall mean of 91%. They also shared a wide common range of temperature preference for 80% total germination. High total germination (80%) was obtained over a wide range of alternating temperatures, but was restricted to a narrower range under constant temperatures.
23432762|Germination and vigor problems in sorghum are usually related to weathering during the post-maturation, pre-harvest period and to drought induced seed immaturity. Weathering and immaturity also lowers the specific gravity of the seeds. To examine the effects of weathering and immaturity on the internal morphology of seeds varying in specific gravity, sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] seeds (Wheatland cv.) from panicles harvested at physiological maturity, exposed to field weathering or to artificially induced immaturity, were separated into high (>1.30) and low (>1.20) specific gravity levels. Scanning electron microscope photomicrographs revealed cavities and profuse fungal growth in the placental sac area and in the embryo of seeds from the intense weathering treatment and low specific gravity class. Similar cavities were observed in the immature seeds. Endosperm cells in the immature seeds were not completely filled with starch granules, and the epithelial and aleurone layers were not fully developed. The presence of cavities reduced the density of the seeds, consequently their specific gravity was lower. Seeds of low specific gravity also occurred among those harvested at physiological maturity, and they also exhibited morphological features of weathered or immature seeds or both.
23432803|The procedure known as prechilling, or stratification, to break dormancy in tree seeds is discussed in terms of its effects on germination capacity and germination rate. Treatment prolongation and poor control of prechilling temperature have been blamed for premature germination before the seeds can be sown, rendering the seeds useless to the nursery grower. Over the last decade, several independent researchers have demonstrated that by changing and controlling seed moisture content during refrigeration, premature germination can be delayed or eliminated and, in some species, germination capacity can be considerably increased. The main effect is on speed of germination, believed to be brought about by germination synchronization. Plant growers should find the new procedures advantageous since they permit prechilled seeds to be stored for varying periods, thereby providing flexibility in the initiation of the prechilling treatment as well as the safe storability of treated seeds when sowing is delayed. Practical-scale methods of application have yet to be developed.
23432798|Poorly developed root growth of White Lightning, a heterozygous sugary enhancer (se) sweet corn, has been observed in roll towel germination tests. A large percentage of seedlings would be considered abnormal due to this poor root growth. Soaking seeds for 8 hours in water and/or placing fewer seeds per roll towel improved root growth and percent normal seedlings. Leachate from White Lightning was assayed on lettuce seed germination and growth. Lettuce root growth decreased linearly with a logarithmic increase in leachate concentration while percent radicle emergence was not affected. Autoclaving the leachate further reduced lettuce root growth which indicated that the inhibitor was not heat labile and not microbial in nature. Leachate of White Lightning decreased root growth of other corn genotypes. White Lightning seed quality was reduced by mechanical injury, accelerated aging or freezing. As seed quality decreased, electrical conductivity increased and percent germination decreased and lettuce root growth was reduced.
23433003|A questionnaire concerning variety testing was sent to 66 official AOSA seed testing laboratories. Forty-four of the responding seed laboratories routinely test vegetable and/or agricultural seeds and 86 percent of these laboratories engage in variety testing. The variety testing procedures most widely used by AOSA member laboratories are evaluations of morphological seed characteristics and certain "quick" chemical tests. More AOSA seed laboratories conduct variety tests on samples of wheat, barley, oat, soybean, cowpea, sorghum, and Kentucky bluegrass than on samples of other kinds.
23432764|A field experiment was conducted for two years at Lexington, KY to evaluate the effect of variation in the time of seedling emergence within the plant community on soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] yield. Variation in time of emergence was created by planting alternate seeds in the row either 4 or 7 d after the initial plantings. In the control treatment, all seeds were planted when the initial plantings were made. All seeds were planted by hand in 0.76 m rows at a population of 26 plants m-2 (51 mm between plants in the row). Plants from the initial and delayed plantings were harvested separately. The rate of dry matter accumulation from R1 to R5 (g plant-1 d-1) of the delayed plants in the mixed plantings was less (32 to 74%) than the rate of plants from the initial planting. The same effect was shown for yield (26 to 76% less) and seeds per plant. However, the rate of dry matter accumulation per unit area (g m-2 d-1), yield per unit area and seeds per unit area were the same for all treatments. Thus, variation in time of emergence, which created differences in plant size and individual plant yield in the community, had no effect on yield per unit area in soybean.
23432937|Field weathering of soybean, [Glycine max (L.) Merr.], seeds, after harvest maturity, reduces seed germination and increases disease incidence. Therefore, the objective of this paper was to determine if there were genotypic differences in pod and seed moisture of three Maturity Group III and Maturity Group IV cultivars. Two replicates of each cultivar were grown to harvest maturity in 1979 and 1980. Twenty pods were collected from each plot at 800 and 1300 h daily, shelled, and pod and seed weight determined gravimetrically. Dry weight of pods and seeds was determined after 24 h at 100 C. Moisture content of soybean pods and seeds fluctuated daily. Moisture content of pods and seeds of Group III cultivars was significantly higher at the 800 h sampling time than at the 1300 h. Significant differences between pod moisture content of Group III cultivars were observed in 1979, which was a wet harvest season. These results agree with previous laboratory observations and suggest that there is genotypic variability in pod moisture uptake.
23432800|A computer-based information retrieval system for personal bibliographies is described. The system consists of two interactive computer programs, written in Microsoft BASICA for the IBM-PC-XT3 personal computer, that enable the user to enter and edit (LIT), search (SEARCH), and print in a convenient format, bibliographic files. The linkage of this system to a mainframe computer to accommodate large bibliographic files is also discussed.
23432666|Germination of seeds from Arachis species is low after 20 yr in storage. This study was conducted to develop procedures to recover germplasm from deteriorated seeds. Embryonic axes from deteriorated seed of Arachis species were cultured on a medium containing MS salts, Gamborg's B5 vitamins, 30 g/L sucrose, and solidified with 8 g/L agar. Six to 8-week-old plants regenerated from embryonic axes were transplanted to Jiffy pots in the greenhouse. Nineteen samples of deteriorated seed between 20 and 31 years old were evaluated. Shoots were recovered from 31% of the seeds by in vitro rescue of embryonic axes and from 2.4% by germination in the greenhouse. In the same experiment, plants were recovered from 15 to 31-yr-old deteriorated seed of A. burkartii, A. glabrata, A. hagenbeckii, A. monticola, A. pusilla, A. rigonii, A. villosa, and A. villosulicarpa by in vitro rescue of embryonic axes, while no plants were recovered from seed of the same 15 seed lots germinated in the greenhouse. The in vitro rescue of embryonic axes can significantly increase the recovery of germplasm from deteriorated seed of Arachis species.
23432719|Outbreaks of angular leaf spot, caused by Phaeoisariopsis griseola, occurred in a number of Michigan seed fields of the 'Montcalm' red kidney bean cultivar. Seed assays revealed low amounts of P. griseola in 8 of 20 (40%) and 6 of 59 (10%) seed lots from 1982 and 1983, respectively. Infestation sites in seeds of cultivars 'Charlevoix' and 'Montcalm' red kidney bean were primarily in the hilum, whereas in seeds of cultivar 'Laker' navy bean they were in both the hilum and seed coat. Greenhouse and field studies established that seedborne P. griseola is transmitted to the developing seedlings and thus may serve as a source of inoculum in Michigan. Viability of P. griseola in seeds decreased over time.
23432819|Seed extracts of 16 annual ryegrass (Lolium multiflorum Lam.) cultivars and 35 perennial ryegrass (L. Perenne L.) cultivars were analyzed by polyacrylamide disc electrophoresis for esterase activity. One esterase isoenzyme stained darkly in annual samples and faintly in perennial samples. The staining intensity of this esterase band appeared to be unaffected by seed quality, linked to growth habit and independent of seedling fluorescence. It was possible to use the staining intensity of this esterase band to detect mixtures of annual and perennial seeds. Electrophoresis of seed proteins followed by staining for esterase shows promise as a procedure for distinguishing between seeds of annual and perennial ryegrass.
23432753|Watermelon seeds from 32 commercially grown lots and from 5 lots obtained from locally grown fruits harvested from wilted vines in one field (PV lots) were surface-disinfested, dissected and the seed coat halves and cotyledons plated on Komada's selective medium. Forty-four isolates of Fusarium spp. were single-spored and identified as either F. oxysporum, F. solani, or F. moniliforme. Commercial seed lots had lower infection levels than the PV seed lots. Fusarium oxysporum was isolated more frequently from seed coats than cotyledons, while an equal number of F. solani and F. moniliforme isolates was obtained from each. Twenty-one of the seed isolates were screened for pathogenicity to watermelons in three different tests. All 21 isolates caused some necrosis of 'Black Diamond' seedlings on water agar plates and eight isolates caused severe necrosis. Four isolates caused a 5-day delay in seedling emergence from soil in flats in the greenhouse, while three isolates caused a decrease in seedling emergence. Only one isolate caused significant damping-off of seedlings. None of the isolates repeatedly caused vascular wilt in older plants.
23432649|Rapid and effective techniques that would complement the seedling fluorescence test are needed to differentiate annual (Lolium multiflorum Lam.) from perennial (L. perenne L.) ryegrass. Electrophoresis procedures have been successful in separating the two species, but differences between them are often based only on band intensity. The purpose of this work was to develop an electrophoretic procedure that would, by presence or absence of distinct bands, differentiate between annual and perennial ryegrass, detect mixtures of the two species, and possibly detect ploidy level of annual ryegrass. Proteins were analyzed using sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). Seventeen annual, three intermediate (L. hybridum Hausslen), and 14 perennial cultivars were tested. The annual and intermediate cultivars possessed characteristic protein bands at Rf 0.71 and 0.73 that were not found in any of the perennial cultivars. Moreover, bands were present in the perennial cultivars at Rf 0.80 and 0.88 that were absent or very faintly stained in the annual and intermediate cultivars. The banding patterns for annual and intermediate species were similar. To test for contamination of perennial ryegrass seed lots with small percentages of annual ryegrass seed, mixtures of annual and perennial ryegrass seed were made in concentrations of 0, 1, 3, 5, 10, 25, 50, 75, and 100% annual seed. Annual bands were visible in the samples containing 25% or more annual seed. Densitometer scans could detect the annual bands in the mixtures containing 10% annual seed, but lower percentages of annual seed could not be detected in the bulk seed mixtures. Protein extracts of individual seeds were electrophoresed to determine whether species mixtures can be detected on an individual seed basis. When individual seeds were used, the resulting banding patterns were different than those produced from bulk seed extracts from the same cultivar. Furthermore, no two seeds within a cultivar showed the same banding patterns. However, the characteristic annual bands at Rf 0.71 and 0.73 were still evident in most single seeds from annuals. Likewise, the characteristic perennial bands at Rf 0.80 and 0.88 were normally present in individual seeds of the perennials. Individual seeds could be identified by either or both pairs of these bands or bands in other zones. The SDS-PAGE procedures used in this study were successful in differentiating between annual and perennial ryegrass. Bulk seeds and single seeds of the two species show distinct species-specific banding patterns. Perennial ryegrass seed lots contaminated with 10% or more annual ryegrass seed could be detected by analyzing bulk seed. No characteristic banding patterns were detected that would allow determination of ploidy level among annual ryegrass cultivars.
23432962|Addition of ascorbic acid (250 ppm), phosphoric acid (250 ppm) and gibberellic acid (GA3, 200 ppm) to germinated seed-gel mixtures of tomato and pepper prior to planting affected the emergence and growth of the seedlings. Ascorbic plus gibberellic acid significantly increased the emergence rate, but not dry weight of pepper; while gibberellic acid in combination with either phosphoric or ascorbic acid significantly increased the emergence, but not dry weight of tomato. Germination of tomato seeds significantly increased their emergence as indicated by ERI values compared to dry seeds; but no difference was observed with pepper seeds. There were differences in the performance of the gels. The starch polyacrylate polymer performed the poorest; while the aluminum silicate and hydroxyethyl cellulose performed equally well.
23432663|Diaspore has previously been defined in the botanical sense, as a disseminule; especially one specialized for dispersal. That definition implies that diaspore morphology reflects the single function of dispersal. The plant science literature is reviewed, and ample evidence presented to show that diaspore structure and function reflect many facets in the processes of seedling recruitment. The functions reviewed include dispersal, protection, seed positioning and orientation, seed fixation, moisture adsorption, light filtering and regulating seed respiration. An enlarged definition of diaspore is offered to reflect a multiple-function concept.
23432812|Germination of shrunken2 sweet corn seed is subject to poor reproducibility when tested by different seed laboratories. This project sought to measure reproducibility and improve reproducibility by providing light during germination testing. A referee germination test with six sweet corn seedlots was performed in 11 laboratories under light and in darkness. Three of the lots gave rise to highly variable germination percentages and inconsistent ranking of lots among laboratories. This resulted from unstable proportions of seedlings with primary leaves less than  the length of the coleoptile, abnormals under AOSA rules. Between-laboratory standard deviation ranged from 4 to 25% (avg. 14 %) when germination was performed in the dark, and from 2 to 21% (avg. 10%) when germination was performed under light. In the dark, laboratory means ranged from 42 to 82% (avg. 75%). Under light, laboratory means ranged from 65 to 90% (avg. 77%). We suggest that the AOSA "Rules for Testing Seeds" be changed to require that sweet corn seed be germination-tested under light.
23432923|Coated (pelleted and taped) and raw carrot (Daucus carota L.) and onion (Allium cepa L.) seed from commercial sources were subjected to 6 storage conditions varying from 21 C, 90 % relative humidity (RH) to 5 C, 40 % RH) for periods ranging from 6 months to 3 years. Three types of packaging material differing in moisture-barrier properties were used. Samples were removed periodically for moisture and germination tests. Both coated and raw seed stored in paper envelopes at 21 C, 90 % RH were dead within 12 months while those stored at 5 C, 40 % RH retained their initial germination for 3 years. At intermediate storage conditions coated seed stored as well as, or in some instances better than, the raw seed controls.
23432826|Hypocotyl lengths of soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merr.) cultivars 'Clark' and 'Mandarin' were reduced by planting 7 cm deep in sand at 25 C; the former did not emerge in 9 days but the latter did. Application of Co2+ solution, however, promoted emergence of Clark seedlings. The weight of the sand increased hypocotyl diameter of both cultivars, increased total hypocotyl fresh weight of Mandarin without affecting that of Clark and enhanced ethylene production of Clark seedlings more than that of Mandarin. The rate of ethylene production of Clark seedlings also increased more than that of Mandarin seedlings when hypocotyl elongation was restricted by means of a rubber stopper. The morphological effects of physical stress on hypocotyls were duplicated by application of ethylene; however, hypocotyl elongation of Clark was affected by the inhibitory action of ethylene more than that of Mandarin.
23433005|An anniversary is an excellent time to inventory previous accomplishments and to plan for the future. The other speakers in this symposium have provided an overview of the goals, accomplishments and shortcomings of their respective societies for the past 75 years. It is my intent to examine the present status of the Association of Official Seed Analysts (AOSA) and to position this association for the future. To accomplish this I plan to (1) re-examine the objectives of AOSA and discuss their application to seed testing in the 80's, 90's and the year 2000, (2) provide short term recommendations for improving seed testing within the next 10 years, (3) take a look ahead over the next 25 years and (4) submit a proposal for seed research in the future.
23432662|Tetrazolium tests, soil cold tests, and standard germination tests were conducted on 40 lots of grain sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench]. Based on tetrazolium evaluations, seeds were grouped into high vigor, medium vigor, low vigor, and non-germinable categories. The high plus medium vigor categories of tetrazolium were significantly correlated at the 0.01% level of probability with emergence in soil cold test (r=0.936). The high plus medium plus low vigor categories were significantly correlated at the 0.01% level of probability with standard germination (r=0.900). These results demonstrate the potential of the tetrazolium test for assessing seed quality in sorghum.
