43317022|Coastal resource management strategies sometimes fail when they do not integrate development impacts into the existing ad hoc approach to coastal management. This paper outlines a set of strategies coastal developers may take when confronted by the need for change. Because a development and its coastal impact area constitute a connected system, the promotive strategy sees the development-impact area as interdependent. Such a strategy can turn impacts into an expansion of developer concern by promoting coastal impacts as a new pathway to greater coastal conservation and management opportunities.
43317028|The old theory of eustasy implied that the eustatic ocean level was displaced up and down smultaneously and equally over the globe. Due to the geoid deformation, however, two eustatic levels are never quite parallel. The present paper deals with the complexity of variables and the Holocene global observational records.
43317025|Hydrographie data from winter and summer cruises during the 1976 to 1979 period were used to illustrate atypical oceanographie conditions in the SAB, especially during the cold winters of 1977 and 1978. During this period meteorological conditions resulted in unusually low water temperatures in nearshore regimes (< 6C in South Carolina coastal waters in January 1977). During other winter cruises surface waters were cooler off Georgia than off South Carolina. Zones of upwelling were observed regularly near Cape Canaveral and off Charleston, while Gulf Stream intrusions were detected at many outer shelf locations. Salinities indicative of runoff occurred near the coast, from South Carolina to Florida during the winter cruises. High salinities (> 36 0/00) were also measured during the winter cruises in some coastal areas, indicating Gulf Stream intrusions. Surface salinities > 35 0/00 near river mouths were observed during the summers of 1977 and 1978, correlating well with drought conditions in the coastal states. Surface circulation, as derived from density distributions, was atypical throughout much of the period of this study. The cyclonic eddynormaliyin Long Bay (south of Cape Fear) was not well-defined or present during the summer cruises, but was quite distinct during winter 1977 in conjunction with three other cyclonic eddies at midshelf locations. In addition, a rather continuous coastal countercurrent was present during winter 1977 from Long Bay to Cape Canaveral. The summer 1976 circulation, however, did not have a Long Bay eddy as usual or it was displaced offshore.
43317026|Motile, thecate dinoflagellates of the genus Fragilidium excysted under laboratory conditions from two types of morphologically distinct hypnocysts, isolated from sediments of the Indian River lagoon, Brevard County, Florida. Observations of individual motile organisms showed that ecdysal cysts were formed from the thecate (armored) stage and pellicle cysts were formed from the gymnodinoid (prearmored) stage. The duration of ecdysal encystment was typically between eight and nine hours when a thecate individual encysted, and between seven and eight hours when a cyst was formed from the "gymnodinoid" stage. All dinoflagellates observed excysting from ecdysal cysts were in the prearmored "gymnodinoid" stage with distinct longitudinal and transverse flagella and fully developed cingular and sulcal furrows. The results of this investigation provide field evidence for the presence of hypnocysts, ecdysal, and pellicle cysts in the life cycle of Fragilidium. The formation of ecdysal and pellicle cysts may provide several benefits for life in an estuarine system where conditions can change significantly in a relatively short period of time. A theca/cyst cycle is suggested for the genus Fragilidium. Similar theca/cyst cycles can be expected to occur in other dinoflagellates.
43317023|The processes of geomorphic change in the Chandeleur Islands, Louisiana, were monitored for years after the passage of Hurricane Frederic in September 1979. Rates of beach accretion and hurricane-channel closure on these transgressive. microtidal barrier islands were affected by subsequent storms, including major frontal passages in the two following winters and three tropical cyclones passed through the Gulf of Mexico in 1980. Twenty-four months after Frederic, thehurricane's geomorphic modification of the islands remained evident. In September 1981, the Chandeleur barriers were still segmented by 14 hurricane channels and the mean beach width was 60 m, whereas prior to Hurricane Frederic the barrier beach was continuous throughout the study area and the mean beach width was 170 m. The slow partial recovery of the barriers lends support to the hypothesis that the Chandeleur Islands are being transformed from a continuous chain of barrier islands into a series of small islets and shoals. This transformation is a consequence of the frequent passage of tropical cyclones through the northern Gulf of Mexico, the lack of a sediment supply to the Chandeleur barrier system, and the subsidence of the St. Bernard Delta surface underlying the islands.
43317027|The appropriate rig for offshore drilling is not necessarily the Glomar Challenger or the Discoverer Seven Seas, but rather the combination of equipment that best fits the budget and requirements of the project under consideration. Four categories of drilling and sampling application are discussed: (1) engineering-geological investigations to assess the foundation conditions for large offshore structures, (2) mineral exploration to determine the economic value of potential mining deposits, (3) geological mapping of the ocean floor and (4) petroleum exploration. Within these four major areas, variables are considered that influence the rationale for selection a particular rig. Selection criteria include sampling, coring and dynamic testing capability, limiting target drilling depths, operating-basis environmental conditions, necessary support vessels and personnel. The tabulations, flow diagrams and discussion of this hierarchy of options are not intended to be exhaustive, but rather to assist the marine scientist in designing a structured decision analysis for selecting the most cost-effective rig for his or her project.
43317021|The transgressive-regressive sequences of two Quaternary [Sangamon and Late Holocene] high sea level episodes were identified in numerous island, lagoon, and mainland drillholes from Apalachicola area core samples. As elsewhere on the Gulf coast, no conclusive indications of a Mid-Wisconsin [Farmdalian?] higher sea level stand had been preserved in marine units. By the use of biotope profiles, based on abundant salinity-sensitive foraminifer taxa, and strandplain configurations, it is suggested that all four original islands [including now-relict "Little St. George" Island) evolved through shoal aggradation in the Late Holocene. Seasonally alternating strong fresh and salt water influences on the microfauna account for the smaller salinityrange of biotopes. In contrast with the Mississippi Sound area, very low and relatively high salinity biotopes occupy smaller areas, and intermediate salinity foraminifer biotopes dominate. Consequently modern Apalachicola area lagoonal sediments generally show smaller contrasts in biotope salinities [with underlying units that formed before the islands were established), than do surface units in other nearshore areas [e.g., Mississippi Sound) with lesser stream runoff. The extent of subsequent lateral or seaward progradation depended on the spatial relationship with stream and littoral drift-sediment sources and on shelf bottom configurations. St. Vincent and "Little St. George" islands became strandplain [beach ridge plain) islands, while narrow Dog and St. George islands acquired an essentially linear character. Alternate theories [spit segmentation and mainland beach detachment-migration] offer far less convincing genetic explanations for these islands.
43317022|Coastal resource management strategies sometimes fail when they do not integrate development impacts into the existing ad hoc approach to coastal management. This paper outlines a set of strategies coastal developers may take when confronted by the need for change. Because a development and its coastal impact area constitute a connected system, the promotive strategy sees the development-impact area as interdependent. Such a strategy can turn impacts into an expansion of developer concern by promoting coastal impacts as a new pathway to greater coastal conservation and management opportunities.
