1315648|Reinterpretations are made of North American Pennsylvanian rostroconchs based on shell form, shell structure, and surface ornamentation. The new family Pseudobigaleaidae, new genera Baiosoma, Hadropipetta, Exalloschema, Oxyprora, and Apotocardium are erected, and the new species Arceodomus angustus and Apotocardium plautum are recognized. Study of growth increments on Apotocardium lanterna (Branson) indicate annual and monthly growth rates and life span. Thin sections studied provide insights into shell layer structure and thickness and variation in shell form. Characteristics of the protoconch and its relationship to body shell layers are illustrated. Epifaunal elements consisting of worm tubes, inarticulate brachiopods, acrothoracic barnacles, bryozoans, corals, and algae are present, some suggest attachment to the host rostroconch in life position.
1315634|New collections, as well as original type material, of Lower and Middle Ordovician sponges from the Mingan Island Archipelago are described and figured from the Mingan and Romaine Formations. Archaeoscyphia minganensis (Billings, 1859), Hudsonospongia minganensis Raymond and Okulitch, 1940, H. irregularis Raymond and Okulitch, 1940, H. duplicata Raymond and Okulitch, 1940, Zittelella varians (Billings, 1861a), and Eospongia roemeri Billings, 1861, are redescribed from original type specimens and new collections. The species Archaeoscyphia pulchra (Bassler, 1927), Rhopalocoelia clarkii Raymond and Okulitch, 1940, Psarodictyum magnificum Raymond and Okulitch, 1940, and Lissocoelia ramosa Bassler, 1927 are reported and described from the Mingan Islands for the first time. To these sponges are added the new species Anthaspidella amplia, Archaeoscyphia undulata, Hudsonospongia nodosa, and Zittelella grossa, which are described from type specimens from the Mingan Formation. The assemblage from 12 localities from the Mingan Formation, and one from the Romaine Formation, represents one of the most diverse demosponge faunas from eastern North America. Sponges in most of the localities accumulated as transported debris or lag gravels, but locally, some grew in small reefoidal mounds and also accumulated as adjacent debris.
4095813| A moderately diverse crinoid fauna from the Early Mississippian, Tournaisian, part of the Bahram Formation is reported from exposures in the vicinities of Hutk and Shams Abad, north of Kerman in southeastern Iran. Conodonts from the crinoid-bearing beds represent two faunas and indicate an age of Upper Siphonodella crenulata Biozone to Gnathodus typicus Biozone. Recognition of a Tournaisian age for this part of the Bahram Formation revises the previously assigned Famennian age and indicates that Famennian strata are much thinner, if present, in southeastern Iran. The fauna occurs in thin-bedded marls and limestones at the top of a shaley slope-forming sequence that grades upward into resistant cliff-forming limestones. Most crinoid specimens are crowns (many retaining part of the proximal stem) that have been flattened by compaction. At the genus level the crinoids include five camerates, three cladid dendrocrinids, ten other cladids, three flexibles, and one articulate. In addition, loose arm fragments and occasional cup fragments are common, along with abundant pluricolumnals and columnals in the fauna. Dominance of cladids over camerates probably reflects the argillaceous sediment in the mixed carbonate/siliciclastic platform environment of the fauna. This is the most diverse Tournaisian fauna reported from the northern margin of Gondwana and represents an equatorial fauna living at approximately 20S latitude. Stronger affinities are with North American and European crinoid faunas than with Chinese and Australian faunas. Shallow-shelf conodonts from the crinoid-bearing beds are dominated by species of Polygnathus. Palaeoniscoid fish remains and shark teeth from the same beds support a shallow-shelf environment. New taxa proposed are Dichocrinus shamsensis new species; D. labyrinthus new species; Springeracrocrinus conicus new species; Atelestocrinus hutkensis new species; Zangucrinus abadensis new genus and species; Glossocrinacea new superfamily; Gelasinocrinus revimentus new genus and species; Amabilicrinidae new family; Amabilicrinus iranensis new genus and species, A. bahramensis new species; Derorhethocrinus elongatus new genus and species; Corematocrinidae new family; Lorocrinus zanguensis new genus and species; Blothrocrinus yazdii new species; Culmicrinus cylindratus new species; Paracosmetocrinus delicatus new species; Taxocrinus quadribrachiatus new species; Meristocrinus ovatus new species; and Hutkocrinus kermanensis new genus and species. Revision of the Glossocrinidae also resulted in designation of two new genera not present in the Iranian fauna: Bufalocrinus new genus (type species Catactocrinus? torus Webster and Hafley, 1999, from the Late Devonian, Famennian, of Colorado) and Nudalocrinus new genus (type species Culmicrinus jeffersonensis Laudon and Severson, 1953, from the Tournaisian of Montana). 
1315574|The thorax of Hypodicranotus has ten segments and a spine on the eighth. The ages of Erratencrinurus s.l. spicatus and Erratencrinurus (Erratencrinurus?) vigilans in the Lake St. John district do not confirm their temporal roles leading to subgenera of Erratencrinurus, as has been recently suggested. Phylogenetic analyses of large data sets of species previously referred to Encrinuroides and Physemataspis yield a minimal length cladogram containing 18 species. Encrinuroides is restricted to four species, two of which have biogeographic affinities with Iapetus. These results lead to three clades, named the Walencrinuroides n. gen. clade, Frencrinuroides n. gen. clade, and finally the Physemataspis clade, with an enlarged concept of the genus with the erection of Physemataspis (Prophysemataspis) n. subgen. These last three clades are restricted to North America and Scotland, with alternating predominance of one region. Walencrinuroides s.l. gelaisi n. gen. n. sp. is described. New morphological data on Erratencrinurus s.l. spicatus confirm its close relationship with the clades discussed above. Data are insufficient for phylogenetic analysis of selected cheirurine species here surveyed. Eye position, glabellar segmentation, and pygidial shape differentiate the genera Ceraurus and Gabriceraurus; emended diagnoses of these genera are presented. Ceraurus globulobatus and C. matranseris are distinct, but morphologically close to one another. The status of Gabriceraurus dentatus can be stabilized on its extant types.
1315604|The new balanid subfamily Concavinae is based on the genus Concavus Newman, 1982, and includes five genera and 29 species-group taxa. The subgenera Concavus, Tamiosoma Conrad, 1856 (senior synonym of Menesiniella Newman, 1982), and Arossia Newman, 1982, are raised to generic rank. Two new genera, Chesaconcavus (type species Balanus concavus chesapeakensis Pilsbry, 1916) and Paraconcavus (type species Balanus concavus pacificus Pilsbry, 1916), are proposed, based on fossil and extant species from North America. New species include Tamiosoma advena from the Pliocene of southern Florida, Chesaconcavus rossi and C. santamaria from the middle Miocene of Maryland, C. myosulcatus from the upper Miocene of Virginia, Arossia newmani from the middle Miocene of Maryland, A. rubra from the upper Miocene of central California, A. aurae from the lower Pliocene of North Carolina, and Paraconcavus margaritanus from the upper Miocene of southern California. Concavines, a predominantly Northern Hemisphere group, appear in the late Oligocene in North America and Europe, diversify and spread rapidly in the Neogene, and, with the exception of a few eastern Pacific relicts, become extinct before the late Pleistocene.
40926424|New collections of trilobites from the type section of the Parahio Formation in the Parahio Valley, Spiti, and from the Parahio, Karsha, and Kurgiakh formations in the Zanskar Valley, permit biozonation based on material precisely located within measured stratigraphie sections. Specimens preserved in limestone with mild tectonic deformation clarify the features of several Himalayan taxa known previously only from severely deformed specimens preserved in shale. A total of 75 trilobite taxa from the Cambrian of Spiti and Zanskar can be referred, questionably at least, at the generic level or below, and 61 of these are present in our new collections. This new material is assigned with confidence to 29 existing species, and to 12 new species. Three new genera, Haydenaspis, Bhargavia, and Himalisania, are established; new species include Haydenaspis parvatya, Prozacanthoides lahiri, Probowmania bhatti, Xingrenaspis parthiva, X. shyamalae, Bhargavia prakritika, Kaotaia prachina, Gunnia smithi, Sudanamonocarina sinindica, Proasaphiscus simoni, Koldinia odelli, and Tonfer jelii. Ten additional Himalayan forms are assigned at the generic level only, and another 11 are questionably assigned to genera or species. The zonation proposed includes 6 zones and 3 levels, including the Haydenaspis parvatya level, the Oryctocephalus indicus level, the Kaotaia prachina Zone, the Paramecephalus defossus Zone, the Oryctocephalus salteri Zone, the Iranoleesia butes level, the Sudanomocarina sinindica Zone, the Lejopyge acantha Zone, and the Proagnostus bulbus Zone. The sections span from the upper part of the informal Stage 4, Series 2 of the Cambrian System, about 511 Ma old, to the Proagnostus bulbus zone of the Guzhangian Stage near the top of Series 3, dated at about 501 Ma. This time interval is represented by about 2000 m of section, which is thick compared to similar intervals elsewhere and is consistent with high rates of sedimentation along the Himalayan margin at the time. The fauna resembles others from equatorial peri-Gondwanaland, with closest similarity to that of South China. It also bears strong affinity to the North China fauna. Juvenile trilobites are described for the first time from India. A new Chinese species, Monanocephalus liquani, is also described.
1315632|A new collection of fossil decapod crustaceans from the Cretaceous Rosario Formation, the Eocene Tepetate Formation and the Oligocene El Cien Formation, Baja California Sur, Mexico, has yielded two new genera and several new species, Amydrocarcinus dantei n. gen. and sp., Levicyclus tepetate n. gen. and sp., Eriosachila bajaensis n. sp., Oregonia spinifera n. sp., Archaeopus mexicanus n. sp., and Necronectes nodosa n. sp. Additionally, new occurrences of the previously described Lophoranina bishopi, Xandaros sternbergi, Icriocarcinus xestos, and Lobonotus mexicanus as well as Dardanus cf. D. mexicanus are reported. As part of ongoing work on global evolutionary and paleobiogeographic patterns within the Decapoda, the work has prompted a review and synthesis of decapod occurrences in the tropical and subtropical Americas including the southern United States, the Caribbean, Mexico, Central America, and northern South America. As a result of the systematic review, several new combinations are reported herein which include Eriosachila bartholomaeensis (Rathbun, 1919), Lobonotus sandersi (Blow and Manning, 1996; 1998), and Matuties americanus (Rathbun, 1935). Icriocarcinus is transferred to the Goneplacidae, extending the range of that family into the Cretaceous. Most Cretaceous through Miocene tropical and subtropical American taxa appear to have originated within the area and a large number were endemic. Most of the immigrants to the central Americas appear to have evolved along North Atlantic shelves and subsequently dispersed to the Americas, probably via continental shelf routes. In addition, as demonstrated by several previous studies, decapod crustaceans appear to have evolved in numerous middle- and high- latitude areas with subsequent dispersal to lower latitudes, contrary to the long held notion that the tropics are areas of origin with subsequent dispersal to other regions. Low-latitude decapod taxa tend to remain in low-latitude areas. The Maastrichtian and the Eocene appear to have been times of elevated extinctions within the Decapoda; however, the extinction patterns for those two time intervals are very complex.
1315629|The subfamily Anaptomorphinae contains the oldest and most generalized members of the tarsier-like primates and is the basal group of the extinct family Omomyidae. The best and most continuous record of anaptomorphine history is from rocks of early Eocene (Wasatchian) age in the Bighorn Basin of northwest Wyoming where eight genera and 14 species are recognized. Three of these species are new (Teilhardina crassidens, Tetonius matthewi, Absarokius metoecus), and four other new species are described from elsewhere (Tetonius mckennai, Absarokius gazini, A. australis, Strigorhysis huerfanensis). Teilhardina tenuicula and Absarokius nocerai are new combined forms. Absarokius noctivagus is considered to be a synonym of A. abbotti, and Mckennamorphus is a synonym of Pseudotetonius. The evolution of dental characters in three principal morphologic clades of anaptomorphines from the Bighorn Basin is documented with the aid of numerous new specimens (75% of the sample is new) and with precise stratigraphic data. These major clades are Teilhardina-Anemorhysis, Tetonius-Pseudotetonius, and Absarokius. In each of these clades, evolution appears to have occurred gradually. In the first two clades it was mainly anagenetic, although each one included a minor branching event. In Absarokius, evolution was instead characterized by cladogenesis followed by continued (and continual) anagenetic change in each of the new lines. Anagenetic gradual evolution produced the new genus Pseudotetonius (from Tetonius) and possibly Anemorhysis (from Teilhardina). Similarly, the Absarokius metoecus lineage probably gave rise to late Wasatchian-early Bridgerian Strigorhysis. Evolution from Tetonius to Pseudotetonius has been clarified by establishment of five arbitrary stages of evolution (Tetonius-Pseudotetonius intermediates). Estimates of relative proportions of time represented by paleosols in different parts of the Willwood section suggest that cladogenetic speciation in Absarokius was almost certainly more rapid than anagenesis in Tetonius-Pseudotetonius. Anagenetic character evolution and speciation in the anaptomorphine primates was typified first by increase, then decrease in variability, which resulted in measurable apomorphic morphologic change. Cumulation of changes of this sort created more extensive differences of importance at the species and genus levels. Introduction of changing character states and their tempo was staggered temporally, and new characters (and new taxa) are least separable from their antecedent states when they first appear. This evidence is in sharp contrast to predictions of the punctuated equilibria model of evolution. Because the emergence of diagnostic characters occurs gradually (in evolutionary terms) and not all at once (in temporal terms), and because diagnostic characters are the essence of the diagnosis (and thereby taxonomy), the implications of gradual evolution for both systematic paleontology and biostratigraphy are profound. Stasis exists in the evolution of individual characters over certain periods, but this study offers no evidence supporting either organismic stasis or even stasis in the dental evolution of the Anaptomorphinae over a period of about 4.8 million years.
1315560|The Lower Pennsylvanian Hale Formation, which comprises the lower portion of the type Morrowan Series, in northwestern Arkansas, is subdivided into the Cane Hill and overlying Prairie Grove Members. The Cane Hill Member includes interbedded shale and sandstone with a basal conglomerate containing clasts reworked from underlying, truncated Mississippian formations. The Prairie Grove Member is highly variable, but includes sandy biosparite and calcareous sandstone. Highly fossiliferous pebble conglomerate and calcirudite lenses occur sporadically throughout the Hale Formation. Ammonoids and conodonts show that the Cane Hill-Prairie Grove boundary is unconformable. Several thousand ammonoids collected from more than 100 localities in the Hale Formation show that four ammonoid zones and two subzones are recognizable in the Hale succession, and consequently in the redefined Halian Stage of the Morrowan Series. These are, in ascending order, the Retites semiretia, Quinnites henbesti, Arkanites relictus (including the Arkanites relictus relictus and overlying Cancelloceras huntsvillense Subzones) and Verneuilites pygmaeus Zones. Halian Stage ammonoids are known primarily from northern Arkansas, but an upper Arkanites relictus Zone (Cancel-loceras huntsvillense Subzone) ammonoid assemblage occurs in the Primrose Member of the Golf Course Formation in south central Oklahoma. Conodont-ammonoid associations in the Hale sequence provide a basis for integration of independently based zonal information. Rhachistognathus primus Zone conodonts occur in the Retites semiretia Zone; the Idiognathoides sinuatus Zone ranges through the Quinnites henbesti and Arkanites relictus relictus Subzone. The overlying Cancelloceras huntsvillense Subzone and Verneuilites pygmaeus Zone both contain conodonts of the Neognathodus symmetricus Zone. The Hale ammonoid succession has few, if any, species in common with the type Namurian of Europe, but numerous genera are common to both sequences and the generic successions coincide and are equivalent in degree of development. The Retites semiretia Zone is equivalent to the Reticuloceras circumplicatile Zone R
4095815| A new species of sturgeon (Acipenseridae), Psammorhynchus longipinnis n. gen. and sp., is described based on a single well-preserved specimen from the Upper Cretaceous Judith River Formation of Montana. Although based on only a single individual, the osteological detail we are able to describe for this species is extensive because of the completeness of the specimen, the relatively three-dimensional preservation, and the soft, loosely consolidated sandstone matrix in which it was contained (allowing some dissection of the specimen to reveal the internal bones of the head region). We prepared the specimen completely out of the matrix, and described the head region in stages of "dissection." Psammorhynchus longipinnis is the only fossil sturgeon to date that provides a relatively complete, reliable look at its osteology. Although there have previously been numerous and widespread reports of fossil sturgeons, the material is notoriously fragmentary and poorly preserved, consisting mostly of isolated scutes or pectoral spines (summarized here in an appendix) and it is of very limited use to phylogenetic studies of living sturgeon taxa. The only other described articulated skeleton of a fossil sturgeon is Protoscaphirhynchus squamosus Wilimovsky from the Upper Cretaceous Hell Creek Formation of Montana. That specimen (the only one known for the species) is a badly preserved, very poorly prepared skeleton showing little detail of the head region. It is interesting to note that the only known articulated fossil sturgeon skeletons (Psammorhynchus longipinnis n. gen. and sp.; Protoscaphirhynchus squamosus Wilimovsky; and a third, yet undescribed specimen) were apparently each independently discovered in the abdominal regions of hadrosaurian dinosaurs (as was the Cretaceous paddlefish Paleopsephurus wilsoni MacAlpin). Perhaps hadrosaur carcasses provided the right combination of taphonomic factors to protect acipenseriform carcasses from damage in high energy aquatic environments predominantly preferred by sturgeons. In any case, based on known specimens, sediments within hadrosaurs appear to have been the main preservational medium for articulated fossil sturgeon skeletons in North America. Psammorhynchus longipinnis appears to be the sister taxon to the rest of Acipenseridae based on our preliminary analysis here. We will reevaluate this relationship elsewhere in our (Hilton, Grande, and Bemis) ongoing study of fossil and living Acipenseridae. 
1315582| Seventeen species of decapod crustaceans have been described from Campanian through Paleocene rocks in the Santa Marta, Lpez de Bertodano, and Sobral Formations of the James Ross Basin, Antarctica. Of these, nine are new species: Metanephrops rossensis, Glyphea australensis. Paguristes santamartaensis, Munidopsis foersteri, Retrorsichela laevis, Plagiophthalmous collinsi, Rhinopoupinia bicornis, Cristafrons praescientis, and Torynomma (Torynomma) australis. One new family, Retrorsichelidae, and three new genera, Retrorsichela, Rhinopoupinia, and Cristafrons, were also named. This assemblage includes the first notice of brachyurans from the Cretaceous of Antarctica; six species are described. The nephropid lobster Hoploparia stokesi (Weller), the most common decapod throughout the section, exhibits significant morphological change throughout its range from late Santonian or earliest Campanian to Paleocene; however, variation of key features is asynchronous. The raninid brachyuran, Cristafrons praescientis, is second in abundance to H. stokesi. The occurrence of Metanephrops rossensis and Munidopsis foersteri represents the oldest geological records for these genera and the recognition of species of Paguristes, Plagiophthalmous, Torynomma, and Necrocarcinus constitutes the first notice of these genera in Antarctica. Of those taxa that have living congenors, the species of Metanephrops, Linuparus, and Munidopsis occupied habitats at inner shelf depths in the Cretaceous whereas their extant descendants are restricted to outer shelf and bathyal depths. This diverse decapod fauna is dominated by genera that range into the Cenozoic and appears to be a pioneer assemblage. 
30219176|Naraoiids, defined as lightly sclerotized arthropods with a dimidiate tergum of two sclerites separated by a single transverse articulation, have been found in the Cambrian and Silurian. During the Cambrian they had a wide distribution coinciding with trilobite realms. This pattern may be related to the breakup of a Neoproterozoic supercontinent, probably Pannotia, which implies that naraoiids originated before the Cambrian "explosion." Based on new observations on the original material from the Burgess Shale (Middle Cambrian, British Columbia), Naraoia halia is reconsidered as a valid species. The validity is further confirmed by a new record of the occurrence of this species in the Chengjiang Lagersttitte (Lower Cambrian, China). In addition, some structures of N. compacta of the Burgess Shale have been reinterpreted. Two more naraoiid species are redescribed in detail from the Chengjiang Lagerstitte on the basis of more than 1,000 well-preserved specimens. Naraoia spinosa shows dimorphism and Misszhouia longicaudata exhibits geographical variation in the overall shape of the dorsal exoskeleton. Naraoiids may have a protaspis-like larva, but the previously assigned protaspis has proven to be a separate taxon, Primicaris. In dorsal view, naraoiids resemble a giant "degree 0" meraspis (i.e., without thorax), and could have originated from different heterochronic processes, neoteny or hypermorphosis. Naraoiids are generally accepted as vagrant benthos. A predatory/scavenging life mode is supported by functional morphology and recent analogues. A healed injury in M. longicaudata suggests that they could be the prey of larger predators, most likely anomalocaridids. We suggest that differences in exopod composition might represent evolutionary changes through the Early-Middle Cambrian. The monophyly of the Naraoiidae is not firmly established. Similarity to liwiids, supposed to be the close relatives of naraoiids, is limited to overall shape. We exclude naraoiids from the Trilobita, though there do exist a number of similarities between them.
1315516|Many peculiarities of growth and development in colonial metazoans are related to the fact that a true colony is a clone, composed of genetically identical individuals reproduced asexually from a single founding individual. In fossil colonies the close relationship of individuals may be difficult to prove, but it must be assumed for analysis to be meaningful. Intercolony variation is due to the interaction of genetic and environmental controls as in solitary organisms. Intracolony variation may be very limited because of the lack of genetic variation, but microenvironmental differences (situation within colony) may cause enough individual variation to mask the restrictive effect of genetic similarity. Study of the number of major septa in some Devonian solitary and colonial rugose corals shows significantly less variation within colonies than within "populations" or species of colonial or solitary forms. Greater variation within some colonies may result from either genetic or mechanical accidents. Septal number and diameter are closely correlated in populations and species, but analyses of individuals within colonies frequently show weak or no correlation. Available data suggest: 1) that septal-number variation may be genetically limited in rugose corals and 2) that the general assumption that number of septa is a function of diameter may be in error.
1315646|Fourteen species of brachiopods were collected from two measured sections on Khios, and although the sections are only about 4 km apart, they contain but one genus in common. Both collections are from the zone of Neoschwagerina, but the collection from the hill called Seladha is probably somewhat younger than the collection from the region called Agrelias, because it is accompanied by the first appearance of the fusulinid Verbeekina. The brachiopods at Agrelias are: Kotlaia aethopa n. gen. and sp., Schuchertella tapina n. sp., Derbyia dirata n. sp., Meekella megala n. sp., Seseloidia phlebodes n. gen. and sp., Tschernyschewia sp. indet., Marginifera ganota n. sp., Entacanthadus chioticus n. gen. and sp., Horridonia sp. A., and Linoproductus cf. L. lineatus Waagen. The fauna at Seladha contains: Linoproductus cf. L. lineatus, Composita sp. indet., Squamularia sp. indet., Hustedia sp. indet., and Timorina sp. indet. Both faunas are dated as middle Permian, Kungurian, perhaps equivalent to the lower and upper parts of the Wordian of North America. The type species of Kotlaia is K. capillosa n. sp. from the Permian of the Salt Range, Pakistan, and a new genus of hercosiid (Sicularia) from the Permian of Sicily is introduced for nomenclatural reasons, with type species Richthofenia sicula Gemmellaro.
1315492|The inter-reef Virgin Hills Formation in the Canning Basin of Western Australia contains a diverse and abundant ammonoid fauna. This fauna is comparable in taxonomic diversity and abundance to the rich ammonoid faunas of Europe and North Africa. Of the four Stufen of the Famennian part of the classic German section, three (do II, III, IV, and V) are represented in Western Australia by ammonoids. The similarity of the Western Australian material with that of Europe and North Africa is remarkable, and suggests strongly the existence of an interbreeding relationship between the ammonoid populations of these areas which are now separated geographically by approximately 13,500 kilometers. Of the 36 recognized genera of Devonian goniatites known from Europe, 13 genera are described from Western Australia, as are four of the 32 known genera of clymeniids. Furthermore, the occurrence and nature of the ammonoid fauna indicates a close approximation of a living assemblege, or biocoenose. Several ontogenetic sequences which have long been recognized in Europe, and subsequently redescribed in Famennian strata of the Sahara region of North Africa, are duplicated by the Famennian ammonoids of Western Australia.
1315585|The marine molluscan fauna of the Prince Creek Formation near Ocean Point, northern Alaska, is of Danian age. It is the only diverse and abundant Danian molluscan fauna known from the Arctic Ocean realm, and is the first evidence for an indigenous Paleocene shallow-water biota within a discrete Arctic Ocean Basin faunal province. A high percentage of endemic species, and two endemic genera, emphasize the degree to which the Arctic Ocean was geographically isolated from the world ocean during the earliest Tertiary. Many of the well-preserved Ocean Point mollusks, however, also occur in Danian faunas of the North American Western Interior, the Canadian Arctic Islands, Svalbard, and northwestern Europe, and are the basis for relating this Arctic Ocean fauna to that of the Danian world ocean. The Arctic Ocean was a Danian refugium for some genera that became extinct elsewhere during the Jurassic and Cretaceous. At the same time, this nearly landlocked ocean fostered the evolution of new taxa that later in the Paleogene migrated into the world ocean by way of the northeastern Atlantic. The first Cenozoic occurrences are reported for the bivalves Integricardium (Integricardium), Oxytoma (Hypoxytoma), Placunopsis, Tancredia (Tancredia), and Tellinimera, and the oldest Cenozoic records given for the bivalves Gari (Garum), Neilo, and Yoldia (Cnesterium). Among the 25 species in the molluscan fauna are four new gastropod species, Amauropsis fetteri, Ellipsoscapha sohli, Mathilda (Fimbriatella) amundseni, and Polinices (Euspira) repenningi, two new bivalve genera, Arcticlam and Mytilon, and 15 new bivalve species, Arcticlam nanseni, Corbula (Caryocorbula) betsyae, Crenella kannoi, Cyrtodaria katieae, Gari (Garum) brouwersae, Integricardium (Integricardium) keenae, Mytilon theresae, Neilo gryci, Nucula (Nucula) micheleae, Nuculana (Jupiteria) moriyai, Oxytoma (Hypoxytoma) hargrovei, Placunopsis rothi, Tancredia (Tancredia) slavichi, Tellinimera kauffmani, and Yoldia (Cnesterium) gladenkovi.
1315520|Significant allometry occurs during the ontogeny of every variable in Poecilozonites bermudensis, a Pleistocene-Recent land snail from Bermuda. The adaptive significance of shell allometry may lie in the necessity for preserving a high value of the foot surface/body volume ratio. In the absence of allometry, this ratio must decline as size increases. Three strategies could be used to keep this ratio sufficiently high: positive allometry of foot growth, structural strengthening of the foot, and the development of a foot initially large enough to withstand decline in the ratio during growth. As indicated by ontogenetic changes in apertural shape, a small amount of positive allometry occurs during ontogeny of the foot in P. bermudensis. This is not sufficient to prevent decline of the foot surface/body weight ratio, and I conclude that the strategy of possessing an initially large foot is also used. A simple model of doming, reflecting this latter strategy, is constructed (doming is a major allometric feature of P. bermudensis). In this model, the foot volume/body volume ratio is constant throughout ontogeny in each of two shells, but this value is higher in the more strongly domed shell. Knowledge of ontogenetic allometry is a prerequisite for understanding the phylogeny of P. bermudensis, for paedomorphosis has been the primary evolutionary event in this taxon. Paedomorphic samples are scaled-up replicas of juvenile shells of the central stock, P. bermudensis zonatus. The degree of ontogenetic retardation in development is the same for all variables (color, thickness, and external shape). Paedomorphosis has occurred several times during the Pleistocene, providing an example of iterative evolution at the infraspecific level. Four paedomorphic taxa are known: P. b. fasolti, P. b. siegmundi, P. b. sieglindae, all new; and P. b. bermudensis (Pfeiffer). They have the geographic distribution (small, peripheral isolates) expected of diverging populations and seem to be genetically distinct entities, not mere phenotypic variants. The most paedomorphic subspecies originated in red soils; paedomorphs did not evolve in times of carbonate-dune deposition. The thin shells of paedomorphs might have been adaptive in the low-calcium environment of red soils. The general significance of iterative evolution at the infraspecific level does not provide an adequate model for corresponding events at higher levels.
1315522|In modern vertebrates, particularly ectotherms in temperate climates, alternating periods of rapid and curtailed growth are often recorded by annual markings in bones and/or scales. By indicating the age at death of individual animals and the time of year when death occurred, such markings permit quantitative studies of growth rates and population dynamics of fossil vertebrates to be made, and aid in interpreting the origin of fossil deposits. Scales of fish collected from the varved, lacustrine Green River Formation (middle Eocene), southwestern Wyoming, show interruptions interpreted as annuli. The position of the most recent annulus relative to the edge of the scales indicates the season of death of individual fish. Perfectly preserved specimens died in early summer, whereas those that died at a later season are disarticulated and scattered. A likely explanation is that early summer mortalities coincided with the yearly summer maximum of carbonate precipitation in the lake, so that carcasses reaching the bottom at this time were protected from disruptive currents. Among a collection of early Pliocene vertebrates from a quarry in Nebraska are many specimens from which individual age and season of death can be determined. Annuli on gar scales and catfish vertebrae indicate that these fish were killed in winter. Among the mammals, merycodonts (aged by their horns and dentitions) and horses (aged by dentitions) apparently died in winter also. Unlike the Green River fish, which accumulated over thousands of years, the Nebraska occurrence probably resulted from a catastrophe.
4095817|The assemblage of lagenide foraminifers in uppermost Permian rocks of the central Taurides consists of 22 species in 16 genera, including the new species Rectostipulina pentamerata, plus additional unidentified elements. Of these, only two identifiable species in "Nodosaria" and indeterminate syzraniids survived the end-Permian mass extinction. The last occurrences of most taxa fall within the upper half-meter of the Permian System, a pattern consistent with abrupt extinction when tested for the Signor-Lipps effect. Permian survivors are joined locally in the Lower Triassic and lower Middle Triassic by three additional species. Globally, lagenide species diversity remained low until latest Anisian time, and probably did not reach pre-extinction levels until Late Triassic or Early Jurassic time. The survival of the lagenide clade, in contrast to the complete elimination of fusulinoidean fusulinides, may be linked to the lagenides' comparatively greater paleoenvironmental tolerances and wider paleogeographic distribution. Evaluation of lagenide extinction and survival across the Permian-Triassic boundary in the central Taurides is complicated by a facies change from bioclastic wackestones and packstones to oolitic grainstones near the top of the Permian, and by the development of variably dolomitized and pyritic stromatolites and overlying oolites in the lowest Triassic. The stromatolitic and oolitic Lower Triassic lithologies represent a sedimentologic response to the end-Permian mass extinction and unusual Early Triassic marine environments. Stromatolites likely became established as disaster forms in an ecologically permissive period that lacked normal marine grazing and bioturbating benthos. Their calcification and preservation may have been promoted by high carbonate saturation levels. Oolites, which are found in recurring facies associations with stromatolites and other anachronistic carbonates in Lower Triassic rocks throughout the Tethyan embayment, probably also formed in response to elevated saturation levels and the absence of a skeletal sink for carbonate.
1315539| The living members of the Argopecten gibbus stock include the bay and calico scallops, Argopecten irradians (Lamarck) and A. gibbus (Linn), both common in the western Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico; the less common A. nucleus (Born) of the Caribbean, southern Gulf of Mexico, Antilles, and southeastern Florida; and the common A. circularis (Sowerby) and A. purpuratus (Lamarck) of the eastern Pacific. The fossil members of the stock include the ancestors of these living species together with Argopecten eboreus (Conrad), an extinct species or species-group not ancestral to any of the later taxa. This study seeks to determine evolutionary relationships within the Argopecten gibbus stock by working back through the fossil record from a model of the morphological and ecological relationships of living species and subspecies. Biologically, the study is limited to an analysis of the morphology and ecology of the living taxa deduced from population samples. Paleontologically, it is limited to an analysis of morphological variation among samples of fossil populations collected from upper Cenozoic strata (Alum Bluff Group of the middle Miocene through the Pleistocene) exposed on the Atlantic and Gulf Coastal Plains of the United States. The time span investigated is about 18 million years, according to the latest published scale of absolute time. Differences between samples were studied and evaluated by means of morphometric data consisting of 70 measurements and form ratios of the outline, ligamenture, and musculature of each valve. Using an electronic digital computer, data were subjected to univariate and bivariate analyses, and samples were compared using machine-plotted, bivariate scatter diagrams, reduced major axes, and other graphical techniques. Data from right and left valves were treated separately, except that they were recombined in the study of characters that differ between valves, thereby furnishing new information on intervalve features. The postulated phylogeny shows a poorly known species, Argopecten species b, in the early middle Miocene (Oak Grove Sand), that is apparently very near the origin of the stock. This species evolved phyletically through A. nicholsi (Gardner) of the Shoal River Formation and A. choctawhatcheensis (Mansfield) of the Arca Faunizone into A. comparilis (Tuomey & Holmes) of the upper Miocene (Tamiami, Pinecrest, Duplin, and Yorktown Formations). A. comparilis was apparently broadly adapted and widely distributed, living in bays, sounds, and open marine waters in the western Atlantic, Gulf of Mexico, and Caribbean and probably extending through seaway passages to the Pacific, where it gave rise phyletically to A. circularis. By the end of the Miocene, on the eastern side of the Americas, this variable species had split, giving rise to a primitive bay scallop, A. anteamplicostatus (Mansfield), that, like the living bay scallop (its phyletic descendant), was probably ecologically restricted to the semienclosed waters of bays and sounds, and to another species, A. vicenarius (Conrad), probably restricted to open marine waters like the living calico scallop. The primitive bay scallop was apparently unable to reach the Pacific, but the open-marine species seems to have given rise to both the Pacific A. purpuratus and the Atlantic calico scallop, A. gibbus. The living Pacific A. circularis is morphologically primitive in that it resembles the Miocene species A. comparilis more than it does any of the later species on the eastern side of the Americas and is ecologically primitive in that it is broadly adapted and able to live both in bays and sounds and in open marine waters. During the Pleistocene, A. nucleus, a tropical bay scallop, is inferred to have split from A. gibbus and to have become morphologically convergent on the true bay scallop, A. irradians. A. eboreus, a common scallop on the eastern side of the Americas in the Miocene and Pliocene, represents a highly variable yet morphologically persistent lineage that neither split nor gave rise phyletically to other species and that became extinct during the early Pleistocene. In certain features of morphology, the A. gibbus lineage is convergent on the A. eboreus lineage, indicating that the extinct species may also have been restricted to open marine waters. On the basis of the materials analyzed thus far, the evolution (both phyletic change and splitting) of the stock has been faster on the Atlantic side of the Americas than on the Pacific side, with the living Pacific species resembling late Miocene and early Pliocene Atlantic species. Because barrier islands seem to have played a key role in speciation within the stock, it would appear that evolutionary differences may have been caused by the active coastal tectonism of the Pacific side destroying such island barriers before genetic differences between inshore and offshore scallop populations could arise. With regard to nomenclature, the name Argopecten is shown to be a senior synonym of Plagioctenium; the generic name Aequipecten is rejected for American species related to Argopecten gibbus; and it is concluded that the generic name Chlamys, sensu lato, is better applied as the subfamily name Chlamydinae. The species name Argopecten vicenarius (Conrad), unused since 1898, is reinstated as the only available name for an important taxon occurring in the Caloosahatchee Marl of Florida and the Waccamaw Formation of the Carolinas. 
1315626| A well-preserved and moderately diverse acritarch assemblage was recovered from the upper Ordovician Maquoketa Shale of northeastern Missouri. Based on graptolite and conodont evidence, the Maquoketa in northeastern Missouri is considered Richmondian (=Ashgill) in age. The acritarch assemblage comprises 28 species, distributed among 17 genera including two new genera, Caelatosphaera and Stictosoma. There are 11 new species, Baltisphaeridium adiastaltum, Caelatosphaera verminosa (type species), Dorsennidium undosum, Elektoriskos aktinotos, Lophosphaeridium acinatum, L. varum, Micrhystridium hirticulum, M. prolixum, Peteinosphaeridium accinctulum, P. septuosum, and Stictosoma gemmata (type species); together with two species similar to previously named species and three species left in open nomenclature. Cosmopolitan and stratigraphically important species identified include Baltisphaeridium perclarum Loeblich and Tappan, 1978; Cheleutochroa sp. cf. C. diaphorosa Turner, 1984; Dorsennidium hamii (Loeblich, 1970) Sarjeant and Stancliffe, 1994; Excultibrachium concinnum Loeblich and Tappan, 1978; Orthosphaeridium insculptum Loeblich, 1970; O. rectangulare (Eisenack, 1963) Eisenack, 1968, and Villosacapsula setosapellicula (Loeblich, 1970) Loeblich and Tappan, 1976. Polygonium gracile Vavrdov, 1966 emend. Sarjeant and Stancliffe, 1994 and Micrhystridium hirticulum new species dominate the assemblage, followed by Dorsennidium undosum new species, Baltisphaeridium oligopsakium Loeblich and Tappan, 1978, Veryhachium sp. cf. V. oklahomense Loeblich, 1970, Peteinosphaeridium accinctulum new species, and Lophosphaeridium acinatum new species. Additionally, the palynoflora contains chitinozoans, scolecodonts, cryptospores, and the enigmatic palynomorph Gloeocapsomorpha prisca Zalessky, 1917 emend. Foster, Reed, and Wicander, 1989. Paleontologic-palynologic and sedimentologic evidence indicates that the Maquoketa Shale at the two studied localities accumulated under low energy, somewhat offshore, and unrestricted marine conditions. The present Maquoketa Shale acritarch palynoflora shows greatest similarity to those of the Sylvan Shale (Ashgill; Richmondian) of Oklahoma and the Maquoketa Shale (Caradoc and Ashgill) of Kansas. Whereas there are some cosmopolitan acritarch species present in the Maquoketa Shale, its palynoflora shows no pronounced similarity with age-equivalent acritarch suites from outside of North America. 
1315530|Ammonoid faunas of late Kinderhookian (Early Mississippian) age, virtually unknown previously in the American West, are described from several localities in New Mexico, Nevada, Utah, Idaho, and Montana. This study is based upon approximately 130 specimens from 33 collections. These specimens are variously assigned to at least 15 species in the following taxa: Protocanites, Imitoceras, Gattendorfia (Gattendorfia), Kazakhstania, Pericyclus (Goniocyclus), Rotopericyclus (Rotopericyclus), and R. (Hammatocyclus). The genus Muensteroceras, once widely regarded as appearing in the Kinderhookian, is unrepresented in these collections. The western faunas are characterized by the predominance of the pericyclids and relative scarcity of Imitoceras. Midcontinent faunas of the same age are characterized by the predominance of Imitoceras, scarcity of Pericyclus (Goniocyclus), and presence of Prodromites. Ammonoid faunas of early Osagean age differ in the presence of abundant Muensteroceras and rare Pericyclus (Pericyclus) and in the absence of Prodromites and Pericyclus (Goniocyclus). Most of the late Kinderhookian ammonoids, both in the West and in the Midcontinent, are assignable to the Siphonodella isosticha-Upper S. crenulata Conodont Zone of Sandberg et al. (1978). A few are referable to the Lower Siphonodella crenulata Zone of the same authors. No ammonoids have been described from equivalent beds in Europe which are included in the Siphonodella crenulata Zone of Voges (1960), despite the fact that Voges regarded this conodont zone as equivalent to the ammonoid Zone CuIIa of Schmidt (1925, p. 493). Based upon conodont correlations, the American Pericyclus (Goniocyclus) fauna is middle Tournaisian (Tn2b, c) in age and, with its Midcontinent equivalents, represents a part of the section between the Gattendorfia and the Pericyclus zones of Europe, from which ammonoids are as yet undescribed. One new subgenus is described in this paper: Pericyclus (Goniocyclus), its type species Goniatites blairi Miller and Gurley, 1896. New species described include Pericyclus (Goniocyclus) cooperi, P. (G.) costulatus, P. (G.) antelopensis, P. (G.) rockymontanus, P. (G.) filaris, P. (G.)? decipiens, Rotopericyclus (Rotopericyclus) pinyonensis, and R. (Hammatocyclus) brazerensis.
1315579|Organic-walled microfossils are reported from the Borden Rift Basin of northern Baffin Island and Bylot Island. The diverse assemblage, obtained by palynological acid maceration, comprises 39 taxa and occurs in fine-grained siliciclastic and carbonate units from all but the two lowermost formations of the Bylot Supergroup; their age is bracketed between 1,270 and 750 Ma. Of 307 samples analyzed from all parts of the basin, 133 yielded identifiable remains. The microbiota comprises the following taxa: Siphonophycus septatum, S. robustum, S. rugosum n. comb., S. kestron, S. capitaneum, Pellicularia tenera, Polythrichoides lineatus, Obruchevella valdaica, Karamia? sp., opaque filaments, Oscillatoriopsis spp., Palaeolyngbya sp., Arctacellularia tetragonala n. comb., A. ellipsoidea, Chlorogloeaopsis contexta n. comb., C. kanshiensis n. comb., Navifusa bacillaris n. comb., N. majensis, N. actinomorpha n. comb., Leiosphaeridia minutissima, L. tenuissima, L. crassa, L. jacutica, L. ternata, Lophosphaeridium granulatum, Valeria lophostriata, Pterospermopsimorpha insolita, Eomicrocystis elegans, E. malgica, Symplassosphaeridium spp., Synsphaeridium spp., Satka squamifera, Satka spp., Coneosphaera arctica n. sp., Coneosphaera sp., Spumosina rubiginosa, and Fabiformis baffinensis n. sp. The taxon Palaeocalothrix divaricatus, present in some macerates, is possibly a modern fungal contaminant. Abundance and taxonomic diversity varies considerably between formations and environments, with the Arctic Bay Formation exhibiting the greatest productivity and species diversity of the seven formations studied, and the transgressive muddy shelf deposits being the most productive of the 11 environments recognized. This microfossil assemblage of predominantly planktonic species has distinctive taxa in common with Middle to Late Riphean sequences in Siberia (Lakhanda and Miroedikha Groups, ca. 950 to 850 Ma), the lower part of the Thule Group (<1,270 Ma) in northwest Greenland, the Fury and Hecla Group in western Baffin Island, and taxa reported from the upper part of the Bushimay Supergroup in Zaire. On the other hand, some elements in the Bylot Supergroup are more characteristic of Vendian beds on the Russian Platform, indicating longer stratigraphic ranges for such taxa than previously thought. The compositional similarity between the Borden Basin and Siberian sequences supports palinspastic reconstructions juxtaposing Siberia and Laurentia during the middle to late Proterozoic, and the opening of the Poseidon Ocean.
1315602|Ardmosteges orchamus, new genus, new species, from the Early Pennsylvanian Morrowan sequence in southern Oklahoma, is characterized by a well-developed early aulostegid stage, followed by a fully developed richthofenoid stage. It differs markedly from any previously described genus. The nature of the early development, with a rounded aulostegid shell and a prominent interarea in the ventral valve, suggests that it evolved from the Aulostegidae. The most unique feature of Ardmosteges is that it shows for the first time, a documented mechanism for the addition of new shell material above the hinge area in the ventral valve in shells that proceeded to develop a richthofenoid cone. Shell layers were extended posteriorly from the margins of the ventral valve onto the interarea of that valve indicating that the mantle grew onto the hinge area from each side. This irregular and asymmetrical process gradually filled the space above the hinge and was followed by the upward growth of a typical richthofenoid cone. In the proposed development of the Permian richthofenoids from Ardmosteges it is postulated that the characteristic interarea of Ardmosteges was suppressed during extreme development of a distinctly cylindrical cone. Ardmosteges provides the missing link between the Aulostegidae and the Richthofenoidea. Its characters are primitive compared to those of the Permian richthofenoids but it is similar in having a deeply recessed opercular dorsal valve, protective spines in the vestibule above the dorsal valve, and in being attached by rhizoid spines.
1315589| Palynological analysis of the highly fossiliferous marine clays of the St. Erth Beds of Cornwall has revealed the presence of dinoflagellates, acritarchs and prasinophytes, scolecodonts, microforaminiferal linings, freshwater? invertebrates, freshwater algal spores, embryophyte spores and pollen, fungal spores, and plant cuticles. These groups are documented here and several, including the dinoflagellates, are reported from the St. Erth Beds for the first time. The marine clays were deposited in warm, shallow waters of an inlet or embayment during a probable high stand in sea level. They are generally held to be of late Pliocene age, planktonic foraminiferal evidence placing them at between 1.9 and 2.1 Ma (late late Pliocene). Dinoflagellates are consistent with a late Pliocene age. Spores and pollen, if not reworked, suggest placement no higher than the lower part of the Tiglian Stage (upper Pliocene) of The Netherlands. Analysis of all palynological groups permits terrestrial and marine climates to be evaluated independently. The spore-pollen assemblage has some thermophilic elements but mainly reflects a cool-temperate terrestrial climate. In contrast, dinoflagellates--dominated by gymnodinialean? and protoperidinioid cysts--indicate warm inner neritic waters and present some evidence for subtropical to tropical conditions with winter sea-surface temperatures above 15C. Increased influence of the Gulf Stream during the late Pliocene, perhaps superimposed upon a phase of global warming, is hypothesized to explain these differentially elevated marine temperatures. The St. Erth inlet was not markedly brackish or hypersaline judging from the dinoflagellates, but rare freshwater algal spores attest either to some freshwater input or redeposition from sandy soils during marine incursion. High abundance of scolecodonts, about 1,500 to 2,000 per gram dry weight of sediment, allows speculation that the inlet hosted a thriving association of latest Pliocene marine annelid worms. A species of algae incertae sedis, Halodinium scopaeum, and three species of dinoflagellate, Algidasphaeridium? euaxum, Sumatradinium pliocenicum, and Trinovantedinium sterthense, are proposed as new. The dinoflagellate genus Selenopemphix Benedek, 1972, is emended herein. Quinquecuspis Harland, 1977, is now validated by the transfer of Trinovantedinium concretum Reid, 1978, to Quinquecuspis Harland, 1977, as Q. concreta n. comb. 
1315607|We document and describe the trilobite faunas of the Lower Cambrian Shackleton Limestone. The faunas include taxa of Atdabanian, Botomian and possible Toyonian ages and have affinities with those known previously from Gondwana or peri-Gondwana terranes. The geographic distribution of these organisms reveals a large measure of faunal connectedness around the margin of this vast supercontinent in Early Cambrian time. This connectedness extended even to taxa that inhabited shallow-water carbonate shelf environments, because the Shackleton Limestone accumulated in a variety of shallow subtidal and peritidal settings along the ocean-facing margin of the East Antarctic craton, subsequent to a Neoproterozoic rifting event. Although the fossilized Shackleton Limestone fauna is dominated by archaeocyathans, trilobites are common locally. We describe the remains of 35 trilobite taxa from 32 collecting localities. One species, H. granulosa, is assigned to the new genus Holyoakia; the remaining new species are Pagetides (Discomesites) spinosus, Lemdadella antarcticae, Kingaspis (?) convexus, Yunnanocephalus longioccipitalis, and Onchocephalina (?) spinosa.
1315548|Cheilocerataceae are unique among Pennsylvanian and Permian ammonoids in having maintained the primitive sutural condition in which the ventral lobe remained entire or, in rare cases, incipiently bifid. The mature ventral lobe of all contemporary ammonoids is either prominently bifid or weakly trifid. Identity of these younger cheilocerataceans is confirmed by an additional distinctive feature, the phyletic migration of the siphuncle from a ventral position to lie close to the dorsum within the dorsal septal flexure. Transformation of the ancestors, the Mississippian cheiloceratacean family Prionoceratidae, to produce the root-stock of post-Mississippian Cheilocerataceae was by progenesis (paedomorphosis and neoteny). This involved linear size reduction by a factor of ten, and retention to maturity of the rounded (formerly juvenile) character of the lateral lobe. Two families are represented in the Pennsylvanian, both probably derived from a common prionoceratid ancestor. The monotypic Maximitidae (Atokan-Missourian) are distinguished by ontogenetic migration of the siphuncle from a central to ventral-marginal position, with concurrent development of incipient bifurcation of the ventral lobe in some forms. The more diverse and longer ranging Pseudohaloritidae are represented in the Pennsylvanian (Missourian and younger) by Neoaganides, an unornamented form with simple sutures that persisted to the extinction of the superfamily in the highest Permian Changhsingian Stage. During the Permian, the Pseudohaloritidae underwent explosive diversification, displayed especially by the Wordian endemics of South China. This involved bizarre combinations of shell features that are duplicated by some Mesozoic ammonoids but are rare or unique for the Paleozoic. Included are coarse ribs and nodes, and mature modifications comprising divergent coiling, one or two subterminal constrictions, and one or two pairs of spectacular lappets. In addition both the lobes and saddles may be irregularly but extremely denticulate to give "ceratitic" and "ammonitic" sutures, and the siphuncle is generally close to the dorsum. No fully plausible explanation has yet been provided for these late evolutionary developments. All previously described taxa in the Maximitidae and Pseudohaloritidae are reviewed. New taxa include a species of Maximites that is dimorphic, three new forms of Neoaganides from the Permian of Texas and Iran, plus the first representatives of Pseudohalorites and Shouchangoceras from North America. A new genus (Sosioceras) is established for Brancoceras pygmaeum Gemmellaro. It differs from Neoaganides in having a doubly constricted aperture at maturity and well developed runzelschicht. This monotypic genus is dimorphic also, and strong dimorphism may be characteristic of Permian Pseudohaloritidae. Sutures provide the basis for subdivision of the Pseudohaloritidae into subfamilies. The Shouchangoceratinae are "goniatitic," the Pseudohaloritinae are "ceratitic," and the Lanceoloboceratinae are "ammonitic." The inadequately known Yinoceratinae, referred previously to the Thalassoceratidae, are shown to be closely related to their geographic and stratigraphic associates, the Lanceoloboceratinae. It is doubtful whether separation of the two subfamilies can be maintained. Although features such as sculpture and degree of development of serration of the suture are highly variable at the species level, gross changes in these features and in the form of the mature aperture are nonetheless the best taxobases for genera and species since the number of lobes remained constant at eight.
1315642|Ten species of brachyuran decapod crustaceans, including four new species, Matutites miltonorum, Pororaria? granulosa, Eocarpilius blowi, and Glyphithyreus sturgeoni, are described from the Eocene Castle Hayne Formation in North Carolina. In addition, claw fragments suggest the presence of an additional four species. Analysis of the fauna within the formation, coupled with data from the enclosing rocks, suggests an environment of deposition in subtropical, clear water at shallow shelf depths. Wave and current energy were variable. Although no corpses were recognized and all the taxa were represented either by claw fragments or isolated carapaces, little abrasion or breakage was observed, which suggests that the material was deposited near the living site of the organisms. Many of the decapod taxa are congeneric with contemporaneous forms from Italy and with Miocene species in Hungary. Paleoceanographic modeling, using the Parallel Ocean Climate Model (POCM), forced by the GENESIS atmospheric circulation model, produces conditions of temperature, salinity, and ocean circulation that corroborate conclusions drawn from analysis of the Castle Hayne sediments and fauna and, additionally, yields similar conditions for the northern margin of the Tethyan region in the Mediterranean basin. Ocean circulation patterns demonstrate the feasibility of dispersal of subtropical organisms from the Mediterranean part of the Tethys across the Atlantic Ocean to the North American coastline.
1315512|Much of the controversy that has surrounded the study of receptaculitids has been associated, in one way or another, with difficulties in reconstructing their mode of growth. Many of these difficulties, in turn, result from inadequate comparative morphological analysis and a consequent ambiguity in relating the results of work on one taxon to arguments framed in the context of another. In order to deal with this aspect of the controversy, we propose a standardization of anatomical orientation for receptaculitids, based on features that we argue are homologous, taxonomically wide-spread, and useful as criteria of polarity. These include: overall thallus shape; morphology and arrangement of intercalary meroms; latitudinal gradients in number of meroms per whorl; articular relationships of stellate structures; and imbrication of merom plates. This standardization will contribute to an understanding of growth and life orientation in receptaculitids by acting as an arbiter of the consistency of growth analyses performed on morphologically disparate taxa.
1315495|One of the richest and best preserved late Campanian-Maastrichtian ammonite faunas of the world occurs within the Lopez de Bertodano Formation on Seymour Island. The excellent exposure of this sequence has offered an opportunity for detailed stratigraphic study of the fauna, providing a stratigraphic control unavailable for most other Southern Hemisphere strata of similar age. Ammonites are restricted to the Cretaceous portion of the Lopez de Bertodano Formation, becoming more abundant and increasing in diversity within a 600-m interval below the Cretaceous-Tertiary boundary. The ammonite-rich levels are divided into three zones (from oldest to youngest: Pachydiscus ootacodensis, P. riccardi and P. ultimus zones), extending from the late Campanian-Maastrichtian to the latest Maastrichtian. The taxonomic study of this fauna shows a predominance of endemic taxa of the family Kossmaticeratidae, including the species Maorites tuberculatus Howarth, M. seymourianus (Kilian and Reboul), M. densicostatus (Kilian and Reboul), M. weddelliensis n. sp., Grossouvrites gemmatus (Huppe) and Gunnarites bhavaniformis (Kilian and Reboul). These taxa, together with the members of the family Desmoceratidae Kitchinites (Kitchinites) darwini (Steinmann) and K. (K.) laurae n. sp., are mostly restricted to the margins of the Late Cretaceous Weddellian Province that extended from southern South America to Australia. Cosmopolitan genera described in this work become more abundant up section and include the species Anagaudryceras seymouriense n. sp., Zelandites varuna (Forbes), Pseudophyllites loryi (Kilian and Reboul), Diplomoceras lambi Spath, Pachydiscus (Pachydiscus) ootacodensis (Stoliczka), P. (P.) riccardi n. sp. and P. (P.) ultimus n. sp.
1315596| Review of collections in Prague and at Harvard University, supplemented by additional field observations, has allowed taxonomic updating and revision of Barrandian trinucleid trilobites. Genera identified are Bergamia, Declivolithus, Nankinolithus, Tretaspis, Marrolithus, Deanaspis, and Onnia. One earlier described species is assigned to the new genus Marekolithus. Although partly isolated from the rest of north Gondwana during the Ordovician, the Prague Basin shares faunas with Sardinia and Morocco, as all show the transition from Deanaspis to Onnia. Spain, Britain, and the Baltic also share some species with Bohemia, particularly in the high Caradoc and Ashgill (Bohdalec and Krlv Dvr Formations). 
1315518|Deutler's classic work (1926) provides the basis for an analysis of plate growth in echinoids. Deutler showed that the concentric growth rings found within each plate may be used to reconstruct the ontogeny of the entire plate pattern. New observations of growth-line configurations, particularly in "Strongylocentrotus pallidus" (Sars), have been used to derive a general model for echinoid growth. The plate mosaic is assumed to be the result of close packing of the growing plates. The shape of a given plate thus depends on its size and position relative to surrounding plates. The rate of meridional growth of a plate can be shown to change regularly with increasing distance from the echinoid's apical system. Migration of plates away from the apical system thus causes change in the rate of plate growth. The rate of plate migration is strongly influenced, in turn, by the rate of supply of new plates at the apical system. A mathematical model has been developed from these considerations which, when treated by digital computer (with x-y plotter output), produces ideal plate patterns (including growth rings). The constants in the model may be varied to produce a broad spectrum of echinoid plate patterns.
1315563|Famennian (Late Devonian) echinoderm faunas are poorly known on a global basis, although reasonably diverse faunas have been reported from England and Germany. We have collected a diverse (>500 specimens representing approximately 30 taxa) Famennian echinoderm fauna dominated by blastoids and inadunate, small-calyx camerate, and flexible crinoids from the Hong-guleleng Formation, Junggar Basin, Xinjiang--Uygur Autonomous Region, People's Republic of China. Taxa reported here include five new genera and six new species of blastoids along with one new genus and 19 new species of crinoids. Blastoid taxa include Junggaroblastus hoxtolgayensis new genus and species, Orophocrinus devonicus new species, Xinjiangoblastus ornatus new genus and species, Uyguroblastus conicus new genus and species, Sinopetaloblastus jinxingae new genus and species, and Houiblastus devonicus new genus and species. Crinoid taxa include Uperocrinus zhaoae new species, ?Hexacrinites species, Agathocrinus junggarensis new species, Chinacrinus xinjiangensis new genus and species, ?C. nodosus new genus and species, C. species A, C. species B, C. species C, Eutaxocrinus chinaensis new species, E. boulongourensis new species, E. basellus new species, Forbesiocrinus inexpectans new species, Deltacrinus asiaticus new species, Bridgerocrinus minutus new species, B. delicatulus new species, Cosmetocrinus parvus new species, ?Pachylocrinus subpentagonalis new species, "Decadocrinus" constrictus new species, "D." elongatus new species, "D." rugosus new species, "D." usitatus new species, "D." xinjiangensis new species, ?Graphiocrinus species, Holcocrinus asiaticus new species, and four species of inadunate crinoids that could not be assigned to genera. This fauna is more abundant and diverse than all other Famennian echinoderm faunas in the world combined, and it is critical in understanding echinoderm biogeography and evolution in the aftermath of the Late Devonian extinction event(s) prior to the Carboniferous echinoderm diversification. This echinoderm fauna is "Carboniferous" in affinity and indicates that echinoderm diversification and reradiation were well underway before the close of the Famennian.
1315519| Tidal cycles are reflected in daily growth-increment sequences in shells of many Recent and fossil mollusks. Living specimens of the bivalve Mercenaria mercenaria were notched at the growing edge of the shell and planted intertidally in Barnstable Harbor, Massachusetts. Shells from two lots, killed at intervals of 368 and 723 days after planting, show the same number of small growth increments as there were days from notching to killing. Superimposed on daily growth record are effects of winter (thin daily increments) and tides (14-day cycles of thick and thin daily increments). Comparison of Barnstable tide record with the first year's growth shows that, for each 14-day cycle, thin daily increments form during neap tides and thicker daily increments form during spring tides. Although tidal patterns are present in subtidal Mercenaria shells, they are rarely as pronounced as in intertidal ones. Spawning patterns differ from winter patterns; they are expressed in the shell by an interruption of regular deposition followed by a series of thin daily increments. Continuous sequences of bidaily patterns, one thick daily increment followed by a relatively thin one, are common in M. mercenaria. The clearest 14-day cycles of deposition were seen in shells of the bivalve Tridacna squamosa. Each daily neap-tide increment is a simple layer consisting of a dark and light zone. Each daily spring-tide increment is a complex layer consisting of two light-dark alternations separated by a depositional break that is more pronounced than the breaks delimiting daily intervals. Preliminary results of growth-increment counts in fossils show a generally decreasing trend of the mean values of days per lunar month toward the Recent. The Pennsylvanian value is 30.07  0.08, a figure that is in general agreement with those of Scrutton (1964), who counted 30.59 days per month on Devonian corals, and Barker (1966), who reported more than 30 days per month in Pennsylvanian bivalves. 
1315536|Trilobites collected during the past 20 years from the Morgan Creek, Point Peak, and San Saba Members of the Wilberns Formation comprise 89 species assigned to 45 genera belonging to zones of the upper Franconian and Trempealeauan Stages of the Upper Cambrian Croixan Series. New zonal names are proposed in the interest of a regionally applicable nomenclature. Although none of the zonal nomenclature is identical to that of the 1944 Cambrian Correlation Chart of Howell et al., the four zones recognized in central Texas are equivalent to the eight highest zones on the Chart. Stratigraphically lowest is the Franconian Taenicephalus Zone, with a locally recognized Parabolinoides Subzone at its base; this zone is equivalent to the Conaspis Zone of the Correlation Chart. The Franconian Idahoia Zone, with a locally recognized Idahoia lirae Subzone at its base, is equivalent to the Ptychaspis Subzone of the Ptychaspis-Prosaukia Zone of the Correlation Chart. The sparsely fossiliferous Ellipsocephaloides Zone corresponds to the Prosaukia Subzone of the Ptychaspis-Prosaukia Zone on the Chart. Almost two-thirds of the trilobite species described occur in the Trempealeauan Saukia Zone, which corresponds to the five highest zones of the Correlation Chart; local subzones, in ascending order, are the Saukiella pyrene Subzone, the Saukiella junia Subzone, the Saukiella serotina Subzone, and the Corbinia apopsis Subzone. The succession of ptychoparioid trilobite faunas within these zones characterizes the Ptychaspid Biomere. The base of the biomere is at the base of the Taenicephalus Zone; the top coincides with the lowest occurrence of an Ordovician trilobite fauna. Trilobite families that characterize the Ptychaspid Biomere are the Ptychaspididae and the Parabolinoididae. Systematic descriptions include two new subfamilies, Drumaspidinae and Ptychaspidinae, and eight new species, Conaspis leptoholcis, Idiomesus infimus, Euptychaspis frontalis, Keithiella scapane, Saukiella serotina, Prosaukia remora, Calvinella prethoparia, and Westonaspis? texana.
1315551|Echinoderms of the Middle Ordovician Platteville and lower Galena Groups of north-central Illinois and south-central Wisconsin are represented by at least seven classes including the Homoiostelea, Cystoidea, Crinoidea, Stelleroidea, Edrioasteroidea, Cyclocystoidea, Echinoidea, and possibly Holothuroidea. The most abundant and diverse echinoderms are monocyclic and dicyclic inadunate and camerate crinoids, of which the cupulocrinids and glyptocrinids are best represented. Thirteen new species and one new genus of crinoids are described: Cremacrinus guttenbergensis, Anulocrinus forrestonensis, Isotomocrinus minutus, Carabocrinus oogyi, Dendrocrinus? springeri, Merocrinus britonensis, Cupulocrinus plattevillensis, C. molanderi, Reteocrinus rocktonensis, R. spinosus, Traskocrinus mahlburgi (n. gen. et sp.), Rhaphanocrinus buckleyi, Glyptocrinus charltoni, and G. pustulosis. One new species of rhombiferan cystoid, Coronocystis durandensis, is also described. Echinoids of the family Bothriocidaridae (Bothriocidaris solemi n. sp. and Neobothriocidaris templetoni n. sp.) are reported for the first time from North America and appear to be the earliest recorded occurrence. Remains of a third bothriocidarid characterized by coalesced podial pores have also been discovered. Light and scanning electron microscopy of well preserved cyclocystoid specimens reveal a number of previously undescribed morphologic features of the central disc and submarginal ring that may shed some light on their functional morphology. Cupulocrinus gracilis Ramsbottom from the Upper Drummuck Group Starfish Bed at Thraive Glen near Girvan, Scotland, is here reassigned to C. drummuckensis n. sp. Echinoderms are associated with an abundant and diverse fauna consisting largely of suspension feeders, primarily strophomenid and orthid brachiopods and trepostome and cryptostome bryozoans. Other common groups include corals, trilobites, sponges, and mollusks. Filamentous brown, foliose red and siphonaceous green algae are associated with the fauna at some localities. Carbonate rocks of both the limestone and dolostone facies of the Platteville (Briton, Walgreen and Forreston Members) and lower Galene Groups in the study area consist primarily of abundant shelly invertebrates occurring as whole and broken, unabraded, commonly articulated remains "floating" in a calcisiltite matrix that is highly bioturbated. Carbonate sediments appear to have been deposited in a near-to below wave base, highly stable, open marine environment characterized by low depositional slopes, good circulation and low terrigenous influx.
1315524|Many evolutionary trends are described in the post-Paleozoic echinoids and their functional advantages are discussed. In the ambulacra, the compound plate first appeared in the Late Triassic, becoming more pronounced during the Mesozoic, and reaching its zenith in the Cenozoic. Compounding enabled the echinoid to have more numerous tubefeet, strengthened the test, and increased the size of the ambulacral tubercles and spines. These larger spines provided greater protection from predators and faster locomotion. Petals first appeared in the Middle Jurassic and were developed for more efficient respiration. The first depressed petals occurred in the Late Jurassic, and by Late Cretaceous many echinoids had depressed petals culminating in deep petals in the Cenozoic. These depressions channeled water over the respiratory tubefeet, increased the width of the ambulacra and their tubefeet, and enabled these tubefeet to be protected from predators by the arching of spines over them. An anterior groove is slightly developed by the Middle Jurassic, distinct in the Cretaceous, and deepest in the Cenozoic. This groove provided a passage for food, and shelter for the large penicillate tubefeet. Phyllodes first occur in the Lower Jurassic in both the regular and irregular echinoids. During the Mesozoic the number of pores in the phyllodes in the irregular echinoids was reduced, and in most species one pore was eliminated of a porepair. The phyllodes provided a large number of feeding tubefeet near the peristome. In the apical system of the irregular echinoids, the periproct broke out during the Lower Jurassic. Its movement posteriorly served to separate the echinoid's excrement from its feeding and respiratory areas. The number of genital plates was reduced to a single plate in the cassiduloids by the Late Cretaceous, but this reduction occurred later in the holasteroids and spatangoids; many species living today have more than one genital plate. The Triassic and Early Jurassic echinoids were small; but during the latter part of the Jurassic, larger species occur, particularly among the irregulars and echinothurioids. All the Triassic echinoids except one were circular in marginal outline, but during the Jurassic the test in many irregulars became elongate enabling the echinoid to develop unidirectional movement. The flattening of the test permitted the echinoid to cover its test more easily, making the animal less conspicuous, less affected by wave motion, and placing more of the food-gathering tubefeet in contact with the seafloor. The Triassic lantern had grooved teeth and a shallow foramen, but by the Lower Jurassic some lanterns had a deeper foramen magnum. By the Middle Jurassic keeled teeth are present, and by the Late Cretaceous some lanterns have joined epiphyses. These changes permitted the lantern to be more mobile and strengthened the teeth and epiphyses. The lantern supports in all Triassic echinoids are outgrowths of interambulacral plates, but in the Lower Jurassic many species have ambulacral supports. By the Middle Jurassic these supports are joined together in some species to form an arch. These changes also increased the mobility and power of movement of the lantern. Gill notches first appeared in the Lower Jurassic (Hettangian) and were well developed by the Toarcian. The tubercles and their spines were large in the Triassic and gradually decreased in size in some species through the Mesozoic. This reduction enabled these echinoids with smaller spines to cover their tests with sediment. The rate of introduction of new plates was low in the Triassic, increasing during the Jurassic. This increase was mainly in the ambulacra and served to increase the number of tubefeet. Among the holasteroids-spatangoids some of the ventral interambulacral plates increased in size relative to adjacent plates during the Mesozoic and Cenozoic forming the labrum and plastron. These changes permitted the development of the "heart-shaped" test, and an anterior shift of the peristome. Diversity of echinoids increased since the Triassic with the development of different kinds of echinoids able to inhabit many varied habitats. All Triassic echinoids lived on top of the substrate, but in the Jurassic irregular echinoids began to burrow in the sediment. They increased in number of species during the Mesozoic and now are more numerous in species than the regular echinoids. The difference between Jurassic and Triassic species is not as abrupt as formerly thought, and all Jurassic echinoids are considered to have had a cidaroid ancestor.
1315521|The calyx of a Paleozoic camerate crinoid is composed of a mosaic of large, polygonal plates. Ontogenetic size increase results from accretionary additions of calcite to thecal plates. When new calcite is added to the lateral edge of a plate, a new layer is also added over the external surface, obscuring the earlier growth stages of the plate. However, ontogenetic development can be studied by measurement of a growth series. This is illustrated by regression analysis of growth series of two Silurian species of the genus Eucalyptocrinites: E. crassus (Hall) and E. tuberculatus (Miller & Dyer). Growth of the principal plates is isometric; most growth parameters have a very similar mode of development in both species; only a few parameters show any specific difference. A table of correlation coefficients for 51 growth parameters demonstrates that the entire development of the calyx was highly coordinated throughout life, with coefficients almost always equal to or larger than 0.90. Integrated expansion of the cup plates provided a larger cavity for the viscera. The stem increased in diameter to support the increasingly larger theca, as did the diameter of the root system. Growth of the vaulted plates in the upper part of the theca provided a protective recess for the arms, which probably contributed to the evolutionary success of this animal on a widespread basis during the Silurian and Devonian. Based upon growth studies, the following synonymies are suggested: E. constrictus Hall, E. ellipticus Miller, E. ovalis Hall, and E. subglobosus Miller are synonyms of E. crassus; E. clrodi Miller is a synonym of E. tuberculatus Miller & Dyer.
1315545|The Middle Ordovician Simpson Group of southern Oklahoma consists of an exceptionally continuous record of carbonates, shales and quartz sandstones which accumulated in a shallow shelf environment. Vertical changes in the distribution of trilobite genera from these rocks can reasonably be interpreted as due to age rather than the influence of various environments or faunal provinces. The affinities of the lower Simpson trilobite faunas are with inner shelf faunas of trilobite zones M and N known from Utah and eastern Nevada and, to a lesser degree, with early Middle Ordovician faunas of Quebec and Newfoundland. Middle Simpson (McLish and Tulip Creek) Formations reflect slightly higher energy conditions and very few well-preserved trilobites. Those few genera present (for example, Pliomerops and Eorobergia) are more typical of the Chazy Group and correlatives from eastern North America. The higher Bromide Formation, also of shelf origin, displays a distinctly eastern fauna, very similar to elements found in the Chazy Group and the presumably younger Edinburg Group of the east. Although many of Cooper's (1956) Middle Ordovician correlations can be understood, the stage names proposed at that time overlap in some cases and lack proper biostratigraphic definition in others. Abandonment of these stage names is urged until description of Middle Ordovician conodont, graptolite and shelly faunas now underway is nearer completion.
1315592|Permineralized fossils of the terminal Proterozoic (600-550 Ma) Doushantuo Formation, China, provide an unusually clear window on biological diversity just before the Ediacaran radiation. In the eastern Yangtze Gorges region, cherts in lower and upper Doushantuo carbonates preserve prokaryotes and protists from subtidal marine environments below and above fair weather wave base, respectively. Phosphorites in the Weng'an district to the south contain diverse acanthomorphic acritarchs as well as cellularly preserved thalloid algae. Twelve taxa of probable cyanobacteria are recognized. None is endemic to the Doushantuo Formation, and most have long stratigraphic ranges. The apparent restriction of two species to late Neoproterozoic and Cambrian rocks may reflect secular variation in taphonomic circumstance rather than evolution. Thirty-one species of spheromorphic and acanthomorphic acritarchs are recognized, about half of which occur elsewhere in rocks of the same approximate age. At least some of the eight formally described species of multicellular algae can be assigned with confidence to the Rhodophyta; these fossils provide a glimpse of structural and reproductive diversity in Neoproterozoic algae that is, to date, unique. Several reports of Doushantuo animal fossils have been published; most compelling are triact spicules identified in chert nodules. Along with more than two dozen taxa of compressed macrofossils preserved in carbonaceous shales from the top of the formation, Doushantuo permineralizations indicate that large animals radiated into a world rich in prokaryotic, protistan, and, even, multicellular diversity.
1315509|Early Norian silicified bivalves from Hells Canyon in the Wallowa terrane of north-eastern Oregon are part of a rich molluscan biota associated with a tropical island arc. The Hells Canyon locality preserves lenses of silicified shells formed as tempestites in a shallow subtidal carbonate environment. These shell assemblages are parautochthonous and reflect local, rather than long-distance, transport. Silicification at this locality involved small-scale replacement of original calcareous microstructures, or small-scale replacement of neomorphosed shells, without an intervening phase of moldic porosity. This incremental replacement of carbonate by silica contrasts markedly with void-filling silicification textures reported previously from silicified Permian bivalve assemblages. The bivalve paleoecology of this site indicates a suspension feeding biota existing on and within the interstices of coral-spongiomorph thickets, and inhabiting laterally adjacent substrates of peloidal carbonate sand. The bivalve fauna is ecologically congruent with the reef-dwelling molluscs associated with Middle Triassic sponge-coral buildups in the Cassian Formation of the Dolomites (Fuersich and Wendt, 1977). Hells Canyon is a particularly important early Norian locality because of the diversity of substrate types and because the site includes many first occurrences of bivalves in the North American Cordillera. These first occurrences include the first documentation of the important epifaunal families Pectinidae and Terquemiidae in Triassic rocks of the North American Cordillera. The large number of biogeographic and geochronologic range extensions discovered in this single tropical Norian biota indicates that use of literature-based range data for Late Triassic bivalves may be very hazardous. Many bivalve taxa formerly thought to have gone extinct in Karnian time have now been documented from Norian strata in this arc terrane. These range extensions, coupled with the high bivalve species richness of the Hells Canyon site, suggest that the Karnian mass extinction in several literature-based compilations may be an artifact of incomplete sampling. Even for the Norian, present compilations of molluscan extinction may have an unacceptably large artifactual component. Thirty-five bivalve taxa from the Hells Canyon locality are discussed. Of these, seven are new: the mytilid Mysidiella cordillerana n. sp., the limacean Antiquilima vallieri n. sp., the true oyster Liostrea newelli n. sp., the pectinacean Crenamussium concentricum n. gen. and sp., the unioid Cardinioides josephus n. sp., the trigoniacean Erugonia canyonensis n. gen. and sp., and the carditacean Palaeocardita silberlingi n. sp.
1315515|Phylogeny is a succession of ontogenies, and the two have been compared by considering them in terms of rates of size change. In development, the larger the organism, the slower its rate of size increase. In evolution, the rates of size change can be put into three distinct categories: fast, medium, and slow. The fast changes occur over short periods of time (1-10 thousand years) and are as likely to show size decrease as increase. The medium changes occur over longer time spans (5-20 million years) and are predominantly or entirely instances of size increase. The slow changes occur over the entire span of organic evolution and represent the maximum size attained in various phyla, which again show an over-all increase. For ontogeny, a decrease in rate of size change is correlated with an increase in complexity, an increase in the number of gene actions. For evolution, it is correlated with an increase in the number of genetic changes required of the genome by natural selection in fluctuating environments.
1315500|The Murfreesboro Limestone and the succeeding Pierce Limestone (Black Riveran, Middle Ordovician) of the Stones River Group, the oldest rocks exposed in central Tennessee, contain a fossil invertebrate fauna including bryozoans. Bryozoans are relatively scarce in the Murfreesboro Limestone but are abundant in the overlying Pierce Limestone. The bryozoan fauna includes the cryptostomes, Escharopora, Graptodictya, Pachydictya, Phylloporina, Stictopora, Stictoporella, Trigonodictya, Ulrichostylus; the trepostomes Amplexopora, Batostoma, Hemiphragma, Nicholsonella, Parvohallopora; and the cystoporates Ceramophylla and Constellaria. These bryozoans are the oldest known in Tennessee and are the only early Black Riveran assemblage in North America described at the species level. Species of Nicholsonella, Pachydictya, and Stictopora in the Murfreesboro and species of Constellaria and Phylloporina? in the Pierce are closely related to those found in rocks of Chazyan age in New York and Vermont. Species of Ceramophylla, Escharopora, and Trigonodictya in the Pierce Limestone of central Tennessee are decidedly similar to species found in Black Riveran strata of New York. The stratigraphic ranges, geographic distribution, and taxonomy of previously described species from Tennessee are updated.
1315594|Silicified peritidal carbonates of the Mesoproterozoic Kotuikan and Yusmastakh Formations, Anabar Uplift, northeastern Siberia, contain exceptionally well-preserved microfossils. The assemblage is dominated by ellipsoidal akinetes of nostocalean cyanobacteria (Archaeoellipsoides) and problematic spheroidal unicells (Myxococcoides); both are allochthonous and presumably planktonic. The assemblage also includes distinctive mat-forming scytonematacean and entophysalidacean cyanobacteria, diverse short trichomes interpreted as cyanobacterial hormogonia or germinated akinetes, rare longer trichomes, and several types of colonial unicells. Although many taxa in the Kotuikan-Yusmastakh assemblage are long-ranging prokaryotes, the overall character of the assemblage is distinctly Mesoproterozoic, with its major features shared by broadly coeval floras from Canada, China, India, and elsewhere in Siberia. Microfossils also occur in middle to inner shelf shales of the Ust'-Il'ya and lower Kotuikan Formations. Leiosphaerid acritarchs (up to several hundred microns in diameter) characterize this facies. As in other Mesoproterozoic acritarch assemblages, acanthomorphic and other complex forms that typify Neoproterozoic assemblages are absent. The combination in Billyakh assemblages of exceptional preservation and low eukaryotic diversity supports the hypothesis that nucleated organisms diversified markedly near the Mesoproterozoic-Neoproterozoic boundary. The assemblages also demonstrate the antiquity of cyanobacteria capable of cell differentiation and suggest the importance of both changing peritidal substrates and evolving eukaryotes in determining stratigraphic patterns of Proterozoic prokaryotes. The permineralized assemblage contains 33 species belonging to 17 genera. Ten new species or new combinations are proposed: Archaeoellipsoides costatus n. sp., A. elongatus n. comb., A. dolichos n. comb., A. minor n. nom., A. crassus n. comb., A. major n. comb., A. bactroformis n. sp., Veteronostocale medium n. sp., Filiconstrictosus cephalon n. sp., and Partitiofilum yakschinii n. sp.
4095819|The parautochthonous Anisian and Ladinian rocks of the New Pass Range previously referred to as the Augusta Mountain Formation have a unique, endemic assemblage of pteriomorphian bivalves with Triassic Northern Hemisphere biogeographic relationships, especially to the Carnian cratonal faunas of northeastern British Columbia as well as to Ladinian faunas of the Shoshone Mountains and the Gillis Range. A new suborder Prospondyloidina is described, as well as three new genera, Promysidiella, Loxochlamys, and Nevadapecten, a new subgenus, Gervillaria (Baryvellia), and 17 new species either named or referred to by letters: Promysidiella planirecta, P. desatoyensis, Bositra favretensis, Enteropleura species a, Gervillaria (Baryvellia) ponderosa, Atrina sinuata, Antiquilima ladinica, Palaeolima newpassensis, Plagiostoma acutum, Leptochondria shoshonensis, Asoella? species a, b, and c, Oxytoma (Oxytoma) grantsvillensis, Pleuronectites newelli, Loxochlamys corallina, and Nevadapecten lynnae. Promysidiella aff. otiosa is a new combination for Mytilus otiosus McLearn; Mysidiella newtonae n. sp., Norian, Wallowa terrane, is based on Krumbeckiella cf. timorensis (Krumbeck) of Newton, 1987. Triassic "Posidonia" is placed in Bositra de Gregorio, 1886, regarded as a senior synonym of Peribositria Kurushin and Trushchelev, 1989. The morphological and stratigraphic sequence Bositra-Enteropleura-Daonella-Aparimella-Halobia is rooted in Paleozoic Caneyella and Posidonia and indicates declining dependence on and eventual loss of byssal attachment as well as a possible shift from low to high dispersal ability (between Bositra and Enteropleura). There is no evidence for trans-Panthalassan dispersal of bivalves in low latitudes within the interval of Ladinian coral beds. So-called Tethyan and Muschelkalk species are endemics in slowly evolving genera or are phylogenetically convergent on west Tethyan species.
1315533|The High Bridge Group (Middle Ordovician), and the Lexington Limestone and Clays Ferry Formation (Middle and Upper Ordovician), of central Kentucky contain a diverse fossil invertebrate fauna, including cryptostome ptilodictyoids, the so-called "bifoliates," as a distinctive element. The ptilodictyoid bryozoans there include nine species of six genera Escharopora, Graptodictya, Phyllodictya, Stictopora, Trigonodictya, and new genus Orectodictya in two families Ptilodictyidae and Rhinidictyidae. Three species are new: Escharopora eparmata, Trigonodictya cirrita, and Orectodictya pansa. Most of the species are closely related to ptilodictyoids occurring in the Middle Ordovician of New York and Minnesota. In Kentucky, Escharopora, Stictopora, and Trigonodictya occur in the oldest rocks exposed, and thus include the oldest bryozoans found in Kentucky. The stratigraphic distribution of ptilodictyoids in Kentucky reflects the disconformable contact between the Tyrone Limestone (High Bridge Group) and the overlying Lexington Limestone.
30219602|Metrarabdotos Canu, 1914 and the related genera Escharoides Milne Edwards, 1836b, Adeonellopsis MacGillivray, 1886, and Reptadeonella Busk, 1884 were key taxa in the decline of Bryozoa with erect, arborescent colonies and concomitant increase in numbers of species with encrusting colonies in the late Paleogene and Neogene of tropical America. In particular, the abundance, continuity of occurrence, and diversity of Metrarabdotos before its decline have made this genus, over the past 20 years, a model taxon for detailed morphometric studies of fine-scale evolutionary tempo and mode. During the same period, significant new occurrences of both Metrarabdotos and its near relatives have been documented with detailed collections from tropical American areas not represented in the original studies. In this paper we present a complete reanalysis of the original morphometric data (Cheetham, 1986a), incorporating the new tropical American material and comparative material of selected Metrarabdotos species from Europe and Africa in order to formalize the taxonomy of the genus, many species of which have been in open nomenclature since 1986, and to explore their possible phylogenetic relationships to each other and to Escharoides, Adeonellopsis, and Reptadeonella. The new analysis, with procedures slightly modified from those used in the original analysis, is based on more than twice the number of specimens and 20% more morphological characters. Although the results include changes in species assignments for 13% of the specimens in the original analysis, the pattern of intraspecific morphological stasis previously identified in the tropical American Neogene species, and thus the concomitant interpretation of evolutionary tempo and mode, are unaltered. Cladistic analysis resulted in a single most parsimonious tree for the 22 tropical American Metrarabdotos species, arranged in two monophyletic crown groups and a paraphyletic stem group. The stem group, ranging from latest Eocene to late Early or early Middle Miocene in age, includes four species, two of which are new: M. aguilerai from Venezuela and M. hispaniolae from the Dominican Republic and Haiti. Crown group A comprises seven species occurring in deposits of Late Miocene to Recent age, four of which are new: M. arawakorum from Venezuela; M. boldi and M. saundersi from the Dominican Republic; and M. coatesi, which occurs in the Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, and Panama. Crown group B, comprising 11 species, ranges from Early Miocene to Recent and includes five new species: M. cubaguaense from Venezuela; M. vokesorum from the Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, and Panama; and M. tainorum, M. jungi, and M. lopezense from the Dominican Republic. Incorporation of six European and African (eastern Atlantic) species, ranging in age from Early Miocene to Recent, into cladograms with the tropical American species produced more variable results in terms of both numbers of alternative trees and the positions of the tropical American species in them. One of these species, M. thomseni from the Pleistocene of Greece, and possibly a second, M. cf. M. maleckii Cheetham, 1968 from the Miocene of the Czech Republic, are new. With one exception, the eastern Atlantic species were placed in more or less basal positions in one or the other of the crown groups, suggesting that, as hypothesized by Cheetham (1968), the "Old World" and "New World" species of Metrarabdotos represent largely independent radiations. The exception is the living species M. cookae Cheetham, 1968, from West Africa and the Cape Verde Islands, which is placed unequivocally in a terminal position in crown group B. Although the three groups of tropical American species correspond in part to subgenera of Metrarabdotos erected by Cheetham (1968), the paraphyly of the stem group and the unresolved identity of the type species of the subgenus apparently corresponding to crown group A suggest that formalizing the taxonomy of these groups is unwarranted at present. A further cladistic analysis, incorporating the three groups of Metrarabdotos species and Escharoides, Adeonellopsis, and Reptadeonella, yielded two trees, both of which support Cheetham's (1968) hypothesis that Metrarabdotos is more closely related to Escharoides than to Adeonellopsis and Reptadeonella. Escharoides is represented in tropical American Neogene deposits by two species, one of which, E. guraboensis from the Dominican Republic, is new. Of the six tropical American Neogene species of Adeonellopsis, four are new: A. cribrospiramnen and A. guraboensis from the Dominican Republic, A. limonensis from Costa Rica, and A. antilleana from Cuba and Jamaica. Three of the six tropical American Neogene species of Reptadeonella, R. buddae from the Dominican Republic, R. collinsae from the Dominican Republic, Panama, Costa Rica, and the southeastern United States, and R. buricaensis from Panama, are also new.
1315650| The family Palaeothentidae contains some of the dentally more specialized of the small-bodied marsupials of South America and was a clade almost equivalent with the Abderitidae in having been the most abundant caenolestoids. They were unquestionably the most diverse, containing two subfamilies, nine genera, and 19 species, with a distribution ranging from Colombia to Tierra del Fuego. The best and most continuous record of the Palaeothentidae is from Patagonian Argentina where eight genera and 17 species are recognized. There, the Palaeothentidae ranged in age from the Deseadan (later Oligocene) through the late Santacrucian (middle Miocene--the Santacrucian record lasting from about 19.4 m.y. to considerably less than 16.05 m.y. before the present). The family appears to have survived longer in Colombia. The palaeothentine Palaeothentes boliviensis (Bolivia) and the incertae sedis genus and species Hondathentes cazador (Colombia) are the only taxa restricted to an extra-Argentine distribution. Two palaeothentid subfamilies are recognized. The subfamily Acdestinae is new and is erected to accommodate four genera and five species of herbivorous to frugivorous palaeothentids known from the Deseadan through the middle-late Santacrucian. Three of those genera are new (Acdestoides, Acdestodon, and Trelewthentes), as are three acdestine species placed in the genera Acdestodon, Trelewthentes, and Acdestis. The largely faunivorous Palaeothentinae includes four genera and 13 species; the genera Propalaeothentes and Carlothentes are new and new species are described for the genera Propalaeothentes (2) and Palaeothentes (3). Carlothentes is named for Ameghino's Deseadan species Epanorthus chubutensis, and Ameghino's genus Pilchenia is resurrected to accommodate Deseadan P. lucina. New species include: Acdestodon bonapartei, Trelewthentes rothi, Acdestis lemairei, Palaeothentes marshalli, P. migueli, P. pascuali, and Propalaeothentes hatcheri. The Palaeothentinae contains more generalized palaeothentid species than does the Acdestinae, but also includes some very specialized forms. The most generalized known palaeothentid is the Colombian Hondathentes cazador. Both the Acdestinae and Palaeothentinae have large- and small-bodied species; Palaeothentes aratae was the largest palaeothentid (about 550 g), and P. pascuali n. sp. the smallest (about 50 g). The oldest known members of both subfamilies consist of five of the six largest palaeothentids. The evolutionary history of the Palaeothentidae is complicated by thick sequences containing no fossils, several lacunae in sequences that yield fossils, and a continent-wide distribution of localities. By far the densest and most continuous record of the family exists in the coastal Santa Cruz Formation of Patagonian Argentina. Three major clades exist within the Palaeothentidae: 1) the incertae sedis species Hondathentes cazador; 2) the Acdestinae; and 3) the Palaeothentinae (including the new genus Propalaeothentes). The evolution of dental characters in these clades is documented with the aid of 719 new specimens (about 80% of the hypodigm of the family), most of which (about 90% of the new specimens) have precise stratigraphic data. Biostratigraphic study of the new samples was assisted by a new technique of temporal analysis of paleosols and by radiometric age determinations, the latter indicating that the upper part of the Pinturas Formation (16.6 Ma) is older than the lower part of the Santa Cruz Formation (16.4 Ma) and that the top of the marine Monte Len Formation (Grupo Patagonica) is older than either (19.4 Ma). Fifty-two gnathic and dental characters were used to identify the taxonomy and to reconstruct the phylogeny of the Palaeothentidae. Analysis of sequencing of appearances of derived characters documents rampant convergences at all taxonomic levels and considerable phenotypic plasticity (variable percent representation of different mutable character morphs) in the organization of the palaeothentid dentition. Certain highly generalized character states survive for the duration of the family in some lineages, whereas others are phenotypically lost for a time and then reappear as a minor percentage of character variability. In general, replacement faunas of palaeothentids were morphologically more generalized than their antecedent forms. The high rate of character mutability and the survival and reappearance of generalized dental characters in the Palaeothentidae were probably related to massive events of pyroclastic deposition that periodically caused at least local extinctions of small mammal populations throughout the duration of the Patagonian middle Tertiary. Dental character regression indicates that palaeothentids arose prior to the Deseadan from a relatively large-bodied marsupial having generalized tribosphenic molars with more or less bunodont cusps; probably an unknown member of the Didelphidae. 
1315527|Extensive silicified faunules of Middle and Late Ordovician sphinctozoan sponges have been assembled from the northern part of the eastern Klamath Mountains in northern California. The sponges are from eugeosynclinal rocks that are the westernmost Middle Ordovician to Late Devonian rocks at that latitude in North America. Seventeen new species occur in the assemblages, including 10 porate and 7 aporate forms. New genera of porate forms are Amblysiphonelloides and Corymbospongia, and new porate species include: Amblysiphonella grossa, Amblysiphonelloides tubula, A. reticulata, Imperatoria mega, I. media, I. minima, I. irregularis, Corymbospongia adnata, C. mica, and C.(?) perforata. These are the first reported occurrences of Amblysiphonella and Imperatoria in the Ordovician. New aporate genera are Cystothalamiella and Porefieldia, and new aporate species include: Cystothalamiella ducta, C. craticula, C. tuboides, Porefieldia robusta, Girtyocoelia epiporata, and G. canna. This is the oldest known occurrence of Girtyocoelia, which is generally considered a Late Paleozoic form. Cliefdenella obconica n. sp. is characterized by an obconical growth form in contrast to other species of the genus that are more massive or explanate. Cliefdenella is considered here as an imperforate sphinctozoan. Minor isolated hexactines and hexactine-derived spicules of Hexactinellida were associated with the sphinctozoans. No particular taxa within the class can be distinguished from these individual elements.
1315498|The Rat Buri Limestone was sampled for silicified brachiopods at 7 localities along the southern peninsula of Thailand. From north to south these localities are: Ban Kao, Khao Phrik, Khao Tok Nam, Khao Chang, Phangnga, Ko Muk NE, and Ko Muk NW. This limestone forms steep monadnocks that project above the alluvium (or the sea at Muk Island), and lacks any clear stratigraphic succession. Fossils indicate that Permian limestones identified throughout Thailand as the Rat Buri range in age from Sakmarian through Kazanian. The brachiopods from the peninsular localities indicate a late Artinskian (Baigendzinian) age and are correlated with the lower Byro Group of Western Australia, the Bitauni fauna of Timor, the upper Amb Formation in the Salt Range of Pakistan, the Lower Permian in the Karakorum Range, and the Trogkofel Limestone of the Karawanken Range in Yugoslavia. Western Hemisphere correlations are with the Copacabana Group of Peru and Bolivia and, very tenuously, with the topmost Cathedral Mountain or the lower Road Canyon Formations in West Texas. Analyses of life habits of the brachiopods indicate the following: Ban Kao lay nearest the Permian shore; the Rat Buri region was under shallow and fairly clear water, perhaps off-shore from a reef; Phangnga was a muddy environment with many spiny and attached forms; Ko Muk was also fairly clear, and an especially favorable place for the growth of brachiopods. Sampling efficiency ranges from rather poor (Index .30) to very good (Index .75) with an overall index of .85 for the entire fauna. The Permian Index indicates that these faunas lived under tropical conditions, but the presence of certain genera suggests that seaways were open to Boreal regions. The brachiopod fauna consists of 109 species and 81 genera, of which one family, 15 genera and 71 species are new; 78 of these genera are considered here. The new genera (with family position in parentheses) are: Nematocrania (Craniidae); Demonedys (Chonetidae); Stictozoster (Productellidae); Comuquia, Dyschrestia (Overtoniidae); Incisius (Incisiidae, new family); Caricula, Gratiosina (Marginiferidae); Bibatiola, Celebetes (Chonetellidae); Stereochia (Dictyoclostidae); Litocothia (Lyttoniidae); Goleomyxa (Atriboniidae); Cruricella (Ambocoeliidae); Tipispirifer (Cyrtospiriferidae). Certain genera and species were selected for functional analyses. The lophophore of Incisius is interpreted as a filled-in schizolophe. The muscles of the Ambocoeliidae are reconstructed with a set of adjustor muscles designed to raise the shell to allow it to gape. Life position and muscle arrangement of Paralyttonia (and by analogy, Rigbyella) are reconstructed. The mode of growth and possible function of the stegidial plates of Tipispirifer are presented and, in the same vein, previous interpretations are the sequence of growth in the stegidium of the Devonian genus Sphenospira are criticized and analyzed. The cardinalia of Cleiothyridina are interpreted with regard to muscle attachment, and the apical perforation is compared to the cardinal process of other brachiopods. The lophophore of Chonetina is reconstructed as a ptycholophe whose direction of growth is determined by the position and configuration of the anderidia. Derbyia and other Orthotetacea are depicted as having attached to the substrate by byssus-like pedicular fibers, and thus were able to cling to loose sediment.
1315503|Pliocene to Holocene deposits of the U.S. Atlantic Coastal Plain from Maryland to Georgia are divided into four stages and four substages using molluscan biostratigraphic data. These divisions are the Wiltonian and Burwellian Stages (early Pliocene), Gouldian and Windyan Substages of the Colerainian Stage (late Pliocene to early Pleistocene), and Myrtlean and Yongesian Substages of the Longian Stage (late Pleistocene to Holocene). These stages may be recognized from Florida to as far north as Massachusetts and will facilitate correlation with other regions.
4095811| An extensive faunule of silicified calcareous sponges has been recovered from the Upper Guadalupian Reef Trail Member of the Bell Canyon Formation, from the Patterson Hills, in the southwestern part of the Guadalupe Mountains National Park in western Texas. This is the youngest silicified faunule of Permian sponges known from that area, and possibly the youngest from North America. It includes the hypercalcified ceractinomorph "sphinctozoans" Amblysiphonella sp., Tristratocoelia rhythmica Senowbari-Daryan and Rigby, 1988, Colospongiella permiana n. gen. and sp., Exaulipora permica (Senowbari-Daryan, 1990), Parauvanella minima Senowbari-Daryan, 1990, and the "sphinctozoans" Girtyocoelia beedei (Girty, 1909), Sollasia ostiolata Steinmann, 1882, Sollasiella reticulata n. gen. and sp., Ramosothalamiella divaricata n. gen. and sp., and Spica texana n. sp. Also present are Guadalupia zitteliana Girty, 1909, Guadalupia minuta n. sp., Lemonea cylindrica (Girty, 1909), and Lemonea micra Rigby, Senowbari-Daryan, and Liu, 1998. Aspiculate calcareous sponges include the "inozoids" Preperonidella rigbyi (Senowbari-Daryan, 1991), ?Djemelia sp., Radiotrabeculopora virga n. sp., Daharella ramosa Rigby and Senowbari-Daryan, 1996, Daharella pattersonia n. sp., Daharella crassa n. sp., and Newellospongia perforata n. gen. and sp. The problematic Lercaritubus problematicus Flgel et al., 1990 is tentatively included with the "inozoids." The new siliceous protomonaxonid demosponge Monaxoradiata lamina n. gen. and sp., is a moderately common sponge from the member. The new siliceous lithistid demosponges Chiastocolumnia cylindrica n. gen. and sp., Dactylites obconica n. sp., and Dactylites magna n. sp., the large hexactinellid sponge Toomeyospongia gigantia Rigby and Bell, 2005, and the new lyssacinosid Flexuospiculata hexactina n. gen. and sp., along with isolated large hexactines, are associated with these silicified calcareous sponges from the Reef Trail Member. Toomeyospongia gigantia Rigby and Bell, 2005, described earlier, is the only large complete hexactinellid sponge that is part of the Reef Trail Member assemblage. The problematical Pulsatospongia obconica n. gen. and sp., whose taxonomic position is uncertain, along with an encrusting possible inozoid sponge, and spicule-lined ?burrows are also described as part of the fossil assemblage. Significant faunal similarity occurs between this assemblage and those from several areas within the Paleo-Tethys Sea, especially with those from the Djebel Tebaga area of Tunisia. This suggests significant faunal exchange between the two regions, possibly resulting from strong trans-Panthalassan equatorial currents and a significant anti-cyclonic gyre within the Paleo-Tethys basin. 
1315613|Maastrichtian sediments exposed in the Bay of Biscay region at coastal sections at Zumaya and Sopelana, northern Spain, and Hendaye and Bidart, France, yield the most diverse Upper Maastrichtian ammonite faunas yet recovered. Thirty-two species/subspecies referred to 21 genera are described, one of which, Anapachydiscus terminus, is new. The ranges of all taxa are fully documented and provide the basis for a four-fold division of the uppermost Campanian and Maastrichtian, with zones of Pseudokossmaticeras tercense (oldest), Pachydiscus (P.) epiplectus, Anapachydiscus fresvillensis, and A. terminus (youngest). This represents the most refined, and first properly documented, ammonite zonation for the Maastrichtian of western Europe, and can be directly correlated with the belemnite zonation developed for the white chalks of northern Europe. The extinction of the last ammonites, documented here, occurred at relatively high standing diversity and appears to have been sudden and catastrophic.
1315517|Paleontological studies of organisms with accretionary skeletons should take full account of the implications of accretionary growth. These implications are discussed in this paper with examples from the Brachiopoda. Descriptions of morphology should recognize the 'dynamic' character of preserved structures as embodying a sequence of previous growth stages; 'static' descriptions can result in misleading morphological characters and spurious taxonomic distinctions. Analysis of ontogeny in dynamic terms, and particularly the topological comparison of structures of varied form, can help distinguish true from false homologies, and hence evaluate the probability of inferred phyletic pathways. Such analyses can also be used to infer the morphogenetic 'rules' that governed the development of particular structures and, hence, to locate major phyletic innovations and discontinuities in structure. Four distinct classes of functional interpretation are applicable to accretionary structures. Functional analysis of structures developing through ontogeny can help to discriminate between analogical and homological resemblances and to identify functional changes during ontogeny. Likewise, functional interpretation of postulated transformations of structure can be used to evaluate the phylogenies suggested; interpretation of structures that are functionally dependent on absolute size can also help to identify major adaptive innovations and discontinuities.
1315576|The lower Desmoinesian part of the Flechado Formation near Taos, New Mexico, contains a diverse marine fauna within predominantly dark gray shale and siltstone facies representing deposition in shallow marine environments adjacent to prograding lobes of a fan delta system. Gastropods are particularly abundant and diverse in a 60-m-thick section south of the town of Talpa; 157 species are described in this paper, including 19 new species and two new genera. New species are Euphemites hermosus, Luciellina ocultabanda, Spiroscala georgiannae, Glabrocingulum (Glabrocingulum) globosum, G. (Ananias) talpaensis, Worthenia legrandi, Cyclites diminutus, Platyzona hespera, Anomphalus? blancus, Stegocoelia (Donaldospira) taosensis, S. (Hypergonia) hoffmani, S. (H.) agraciada, Bicuerda procolumnare, new genus and species; Hermosanema varium, new genus and species, Pseudozygopleura (Stephanozyga) granda, P. (S.) lisaspira, Hemizyga (Hemizyga) larga, Strobeus immanis, and Meekospira delgada. Species of Pleurotomarioidea, Neritoidea, Trochoidea, and Murchisonioidea comprise 64 percent of the total gastropod specimens, with most specimens of each of the last three groups being contributed by large numbers of one or two very abundant species. The 20 most abundant species are represented by about 65 percent of all specimens, whereas 62 species (39 percent of total species richness, but only 1.1 percent of all specimens) are represented by six or fewer specimens, illustrating the significant contribution of rare species to total species richness. The Flechado gastropod fauna contains many species known from Desmoinesian strata in the Midcontinent and Appalachian Basin regions of the U.S.; many elements of Desmoinesian gastropod assemblages were distributed widely in shallow marine environments across North America. Potential paleogeographic barriers in the Colorado--New Mexico region, however, may have facilitated evolution of some endemic species in this area.
1315587|An abundant and well preserved trilobite fauna is described from Upper Cambrian calcareous mudstones of the McKay Group, near Cranbrook in southeastern British Columbia. The trilobites are mostly articulated, consisting of similar numbers of molts and carcasses. They are representative of a new deep water biofacies, the Wujiajiania Biofacies, and a new Wujiajiania sutherlandi Fauna of late Steptoean age. The trilobites were collected from a narrow interval (<20 m thick) of richly fossiliferous strata, in a thick sequence of unfossiliferous to sparsely fossiliferous strata of similar lithology. The fauna includes fourteen species, six of which are new: Aciculolenus palmeri, Burnetiella leechi, Hedinaspis canadensis, Labiostria westropi, Pterocephalia norfordi, and Wujiajiania sutherlandi.
1315599|The Scotty Wash Formation on the Nevada Test Site (NTS), southern Nye County, Nevada has produced the first North American representatives of the globally significant index ammonoids Homoceras s.s. and Isohomoceras s.s. and contains the only ammonoid succession across an uninterrupted mid-Carboniferous boundary sequence known in North America. Four ammonoid assemblages can be recognized at NTS that are homotaxial with the reference successions for the middle and upper Arnsbergian (E
1315620|A diverse Upper Triassic tropical marine fauna from northwestern Sonora, Mexico, includes 31 taxa of tropical invertebrates including scleractinian corals, spongiomorphs, disjectoporoids, "hydrozoans," thalamid and nonthalamid sponges, spiriferid and terebratulid brachiopods, gastropods, bivalves, coleoids, and anomuran microcoprolites. They occur within the late Karnian to Norian part of the Antimonio Formation (Antimonio terrane), which is juxtaposed against a fragmented portion of the North American craton. Most of the fauna is also known from the Tethys region. Sixteen Sonoran taxa co-occur in the western Tethys and five have never been known outside this region. Four additional taxa (one identified only at genus level) are geographically widespread. Some taxa occur in displaced terranes of North America, especially in west-central Nevada (Luning Formation). A weak link exists with the California Eastern Klamath terrane but stronger ties exist with Peru. Among Sonoran sponges, Nevadathalamia polystoma was previously recognized only from the Luning Formation, western Nevada. Sponges Cinnabaria expansa, Nevadathalamia cylindrica, and a coral, Astraeomorpha sonorensis n. sp., are also known from Nevada. The corals Distichomeandra austriaca, Chondrocoenia waltheri, Pamiroseris rectilamellosa, and Alpinophyllia flexuosa co-occur in central Europe. Two new taxa, a spongiomorph hydrozoan, Stromatoporidium lamellatum n. sp., and a disjectoporoid, Pamiropora sonorensis n. sp., have distinct affinities with the Tethys. The geographically widespread North American brachiopod, Spondylospira lewesensis, and Pseudorhaetina antimoniensis n. gen. and sp. are among the Sonoran fauna. The Sonoran coleoid (aulacocerid) Dictyoconites (Dictyoconites) cf. D. reticulatum occurs in the Tethys realm and Calliconites cf. C. drakei is comparable with a species from the Eastern Klamath terrane. Calliconites milleri n. sp. is the first occurrence of the genus outside Sicily. The bivalves Myophorigonia jaworskii, M. salasi, and Palaeocardita peruviana are known from Sonora and Peru. Eight gastropod taxa include Guidonia cf. G. intermedia and G. cf. G. parvula, both previously known from Peru, and Eucycloscala subbisertus from the western Tethys. The gastropods are unlike those already known from other North American terranes.
1315623| An abundant conodont fauna was recovered from 202 samples taken from the Becscie, Merrimack, and Gun River formations of early Llandovery (Early Silurian) age on Anticosti Island, Qubec. From the collection of 22,409 identifiable specimens, 28 species and four associations representing 12 genera and one group of drepanodontiform elements are documented and their stratigraphic ranges established. One new genus, Rexroadus, is established for two species earlier assigned with question to Oulodus. New species described are Icriodella dicrana, Oulodus sigmoideus, Ozarkodina strena, and Pterospathodus? originalis. The fauna is dominated by species of Ozarkodina and Oulodus; many species have a first appearance that is slightly older than elsewhere suggesting that the Anticosti Basin may have been an important evolutionary radiative center in the early Silurian. There is a slow and progressive diversity increase in conodonts through this interval after the initial appearance of many new taxa in the basal Silurian following the mass extinction in the terminal Ordovician. The Anticosti Llandovery sequence represents one of the few highly fossiliferous, continuous successions in the world and a new conodont biozonation based on conodonts for the Llandovery is proposed with the following interval zones in ascending order: Ozarkodina hassi (new), Ozarkodina strena (new) [subdivided into Oulodus jeannae (new) and Oulodus panuarensis (new) subzones], Ozarkodina clavula (new), Ozarkodina aldridgei (new), Pterospathodus celloni, and Pterospathodus amorphognathoides zones. 
4095807|Abundant silicified polyplacophorans from numerous localities in the Ordovician in Kentucky and other localities in Virginia, Wisconsin, and Minnesota are described systematically. New species are: Spicuchelodes cressmani, Calceochiton floweri, Preacanthochiton baueri, Orthriochiton recavus, Helminthochiton blacki, H. marginatus, and Alastega martini; new genera and species are: Listrochiton weiri, Litochiton crebatus, and Amblytochiton incomptus; and new families are Litochitonidae and Alastegiidae. Hemithecella expansa Ulrich and Bridge in Butts, 1941 and Chelodes cf. C. mirabilis (Butts, 1926), from the Chepultepec Formation in Virginia are also described. Comparisons are made with Chelodes whitehousei Runnegar, Pojeta, Taylor, and Collins, 1979 from Australia and Calceochiton hachitae Flower, 1968 from New Mexico. Listings of the fauna associated with the chitons are given for the Kentucky occurrences; taphonomic discussions of these are included.
1315656| Upper Cretaceous rocks of the Kuskokwim Group are exposed in a large region of southwestern Alaska and are mainly composed of deformed turbidite deposits that contain few fossils other than inoceramid bivalves. This paper documents the taxonomy of the inoceramids in the Kuskokwim Group, develops an inoceramid biostratigraphy based on known ranges in other regions, and analyzes biogeographic patterns, paleoecology, and depositional history of the Kuskokwim Group. Most of the inoceramid bivalves present in the Kuskokwim Group are of Cenomanian and Turonian age, and an assemblage of species typical of late Turonian age rocks is particularly well developed. Only two localities appear to be as young as Santonian age. The following 16 species or subspecies are discussed and illustrated in detail: Birostrina tamurai Matsumoto and Noda, Inoceramus virgatus Schlter, I. pennatulus Pergament, I. pictus minus Matsumoto, I. cf. I. yabei Nagao and Matsumoto, I.? sp. aff. I. costatus Nagao and Matsumoto, I. hobetsensis Nagao and Matsumoto, I. longealatus Trger, I. frechi Flegel, I. waltersdorfensis waltersdorfensis Andert, I. cf. I. waltersdorfensis hannovrensis Heinz, I. kuskokwimensis n. sp., Mytiloides cf. M. opalensis (Bse), M. teraokai (Matsumoto and Noda), M. cf. M. incertus (Jimbo), and Sphenoceramus naumanni (Yokoyama). In addition, a specimen with affinities to Mytiloides striatoconcentricus carpathicus (Simionescu) and a specimen that may belong to the I. (Cremnoceramus?) rotundatus-I. (C.) erectus lineage are illustrated. Most of the taxa present in the Kuskokwim region are found in other regions of the North Pacific, particularly Japan and eastern Siberia, or are found throughout the Northern Hemisphere. Only one species, I. kuskokwimensis n. sp., is new and may be endemic. North Pacific taxa are predominant in the Kuskokwim region, but intervals near the Cenomanian-Turonian Stage boundary and in the upper Turonian contain taxa characteristic of Europe and the Western Interior basin of North America; some of these taxa have not been recorded previously in the North Pacific region. Turonian heteromorph ammonite assemblages associated with inoceramids in the finer grained facies of the Kuskokwim region are similar to those found in coeval rocks of Japan and Germany. The depositional area of the Kuskokwim Group can be broken into two northeast-trending subbasins, the Kuskokwim River subbasin to the northwest and the Mulchatna River subbasin to the southeast, connected by the Nushagak Hills corridor. Within the Kuskokwim River subbasin, deposition apparently started earlier in the north (middle Cenomanian) than in the south (late Cenomanian to early Turonian), and prograding deltaic sedimentation along the western margin also appears to have started earlier in the north. No marine fossils younger than latest Turonian to earliest Coniacian are known from the Kuskokwim River subbasin. The youngest fossils identified are Santonian in age and are from deep-water deposits in the Nushagak Hills corridor. Few fossils are known from the Mulchatna River subbasin and age control is limited. 
1315644| Ten species of macruran, anomuran, and brachyuran decapod crustaceans, arrayed in eight families, were collected from seven localities in the Jagel and Roca Formations, west-central Argentina. All of the decapods were collected from the Maastrichtian Jaqel Formation and a part of the Roca Formation dated as Maastrichtian-Danian. All but one of the taxa, Xanthilites gerthi Glaessner, represent first occurrences in the unit and six had not been described previously from Argentina. Six taxa, Thaumastoplax rocaensis n. sp., Proterocarcinus lophos n. gen. and sp., Lobonotus lobulata n. sp., Glyphithyreus wichmanni n. sp., and Costacopluma australis n. sp. are new. Comparison of the fauna with Cretaceous and Paleogene faunas in Chile, Antarctica, and New Zealand indicates that the Argentinian fauna was strongly influenced by dispersal from lower latitude, Atlantic and Tethyan sources in marked contrast to the high latitude, Pacific affinities of the other faunas. There is no evidence that the Argentinian brachyuran fauna was seriously affected by the K-T extinction event. Seven of the genera from the Roca Formation are known from Cretaceous and Paleogene rocks. 
1315572| The Prairie Bluff Chalk of Alabama and Mississippi yields a diverse ammonite fauna of Maastrichtian age. Twenty-eight species, of which three are new, are recorded herein: Pseudophyllites indra (Forbes, 1846), Hauericeras rembda (Forbes, 1846), Pachydiscus (Pachydiscus) maconensis n. sp., P. (P.) cf. gollevillensis (d'Orbigny, 1850), P. (P.) jacquoti (Seunes, 1890), P. (P.) egertoni (Forbes, 1846), Sphenodiscus lobatus (Tuomey, 1854), S. pleurisepta (Conrad, 1857), Coahuilites sheltoni Bse, 1928, Nostoceras (Nostoceras) alternatum (Tuomey, 1854), N. (N.) mendryki Cobban, 1974a, N. (N.) magdadiae Lefeld and Uberna, 1991, N. (N.) irregulare n. sp., Glyptoxoceras torquatum (Morton, 1834), Glyptoxoceras sp. A, Glyptoxoceras? sp., Baculites lomaensis Anderson, 1958, Baculites spp. A-C, Eubaculites labyrinthicus (Morton, 1834), E. carinatus (Morton, 1834), Baculites? trabeatus (Morton, 1834), Trachybaculites columna (Morton, 1834), Discoscaphites conradi (Morton, 1834), D. gulosus (Morton, 1834), Jeletzkytes criptonodosus Riccardi, 1983, Trachyscaphites alabamensis n. sp., and T. yorkensis (Stephenson, 1941). One genus, Trachybaculites, is new. The bulk of the fauna can be referred to a Discoscaphites conradi assemblage zone, but some elements in the fauna are significantly older. 
4095809|Fossiliferous deposits of the Greenhorn Limestone (Upper Cretaceous) are found on the Comanche National Grassland in southeastern Colorado. The lowest portion of the Greenhorn Limestone, the base of the Lincoln Limestone Member, contains calcarenite beds rich in disarticulated remains of marine vertebrates. We examined the composition of the vertebrate paleofauna from one particular location (Tobe locality) through surface collecting and acid solution of rocks. The paleofauna is taxonomically diverse, consisting of 22 chondrichthyans, at least 15 osteichthyan fishes, and six aquatic reptiles. Molluscan taxa indicate that the basal Lincoln Limestone in southeastern Colorado was deposited sometime between middle Middle Cenomanian (ca. 95 Ma) and late Middle Cenomanian (ca. 94.7 Ma), and the composition of the vertebrate fauna (primarily chondrichthyan taxa) agrees with this interpretation. The Tobe locality was situated far from the shorelines of the Western Interior Seaway, with relatively high-energy waves impinging upon the seafloor, concentrating biogenic remains. Fossil remains within the calcarenite appear to have undergone minor time-averaging, based upon erosional rounding and breakage present in numerous specimens. Nevertheless, the deposit contains one of the best representative Middle Cenomanian vertebrate communities so far described from the Western Interior Seaway of North America. Considering that the paleofauna consists of taxa diverse in size, morphology, and inferred ecology, the trophic structure of the paleocommunity was probably complex.
1315617|Specimens of the Late Mississippian productoid genera Inflatia and Keokukia from northeastern Oklahoma and north-western Arkansas, collected from the Boone and "Moorefield" Formations, Hindsville Limestone, and Fayetteville Shale, display morphologic similarities and differences that delineate species and determine their biostratigraphic ranges. Generic assignments are based primarily on internal characters. Systematic descriptions include seven species of Inflatia Muir-Wood and Cooper: Productus inflatus McChesney (the type species), P. cherokeensis Drake, P. clydensis Girty (figured herein for the first time and for which a lectotype is designated), four new species of Inflatia (I. cooperi, I. gracilis, I. pusilla, and I.? succincta), and one species of Keokukia (the type species for the genus, K. sulcata Carter). Also proposed and described is a new genus, Adairia, with its type species Productus (Marginifera) adairensis Drake. All these species of Inflatia, Keokukia, and Adairia have biostratigraphically restricted ranges within the Meramecian and Chesterian sequence in the Ozark region.
1315557|The Upper Ordovician (middle Edenian to upper Richmondian) Montoya Group of southern New Mexico and westernmost Texas comprises, in ascending order, the Second Value Dolomite, Aleman Formation, and Cutter Dolomite. Solitary rugose corals in the Second Value are Grewingkia robusta (Whiteaves, 1896), Bighornia sp. cf. B. patella (Wilson, 1926), Streptelasma divaricans (Nicholson, 1875), a new species of Neotryplasma, and Salvadorea? spp. A and B. Salvadorea kingae kingae Nelson, 1981, G. franklinensis n. sp., and G. crassa alemanensis n. subsp. occur in the Aleman. Taxa found in the Cutter are S. kingae cutterensis n. subsp., G. sp. cf. G. franklinensis, and B. sp. cf. B. patella. Grewingkia robusta is the most abundant species in the solitary rugosan assemblage that is present within the Second Value. This assemblage apparently inhabited comparatively deep-water environments. Most of the corals lived in relatively high-energy conditions, but epizoic forms favored low-energy niches. Salvadorea kingae is the most common taxon in the assemblage that characterizes the Aleman-Cutter. This is probably a comparatively shallow-water assemblage. The dominant taxon inhabited relatively low-energy environments, while less common species lived in higher energy conditions. If the distribution of solitary rugose corals in the area of Montoya deposition was related primarily to water depth, a paleobathymetric gradient from relatively deep in the west to predominantly shallow in the southeast existed through Second Value-Aleman time. During Cutter time, water was relatively deep in the southwest and northeast, and predominantly shallow in the southeast. If the degree of environmental restriction was the principal factor limiting the distribution of Montoya solitary Rugosa, open normal marine environments were predominant in the southeast and uncommon in the north and west. Montoya representatives of Grewingkia, Bighornia, and Salvadorea indicate that the area of deposition was situated within the Red River-Stony Mountain Solitary Coral Province, which occupied most of North America during Late Ordovician time. All species of these genera are typical "epicontinental" forms. Neotryplasma, the only "continental margin" taxon, reflects a cratonic margin paleoposition. The discovery of Streptelasma divaricans within Edenian-Maysvillian strata in the Montoya is consistent with an hypothesis that solitary Rugosa were introduced to the Richmond Solitary Coral Province of eastern North America during an early Richmondian transgression. Within the Red River-Stony Mountain Province, geographic speciation and dispersion seem to have been important factors in the evolution and diversification of Grewingkia robusta and related taxa, including G. haysii selkirkensis n. subsp. from the Selkirk Member of the Red River Formation in southern Manitoba. In Salvadorea, speciation events within the New Mexico-Texas area and Williston Basin were apparently rapid, and coincided with onsets of clastic deposition. Evolutionary change within this genus has not been recognized in the Hudson Bay Basin, where there were no clastic influxes. In the Aleman-Cutter sequence of the Montoya Group, recognition of specific intervals bearing solitary rugose corals may permit detailed biostratigraphic, and possibly chronostratigraphic, correlation. The change from a Grewingkia-dominated assemblage to a Salvadorea-dominated assemblage was not synchronous throughout the Red River-Stony Mountain Province, and the ranges of widely distributed species such as G. robusta and S. kingae cannot be considered isochronous from basin to basin. Within particular basins, endemic taxa having restricted stratigraphic ranges, such as G. crassa alemanensis, can be useful biostratigraphic markers. Streptelasma divaricans remains useful as a Richmondian index fossil in strata within the area occupied by the Richmond Province.
1315653|Low to moderately highly-diverse ostracode assemblages containing a total of 49 taxa occur in the Imo Formation (Mississippian, Chesterian) in north central Arkansas. The less diverse assemblages are dominated by the platycope Cavellina, while the more diverse are dominated by the palaeocopes Hollinella, Gortanella, Amphissites, Sargentina, and Deloia; the leiocopes Proparaparchites and Shivaella; and the metacopes Healdia and Healdioides. The change in assemblages up section in the central portion of the formation indicates a deepening of water with variations in the amount of influx of terrigenous clastics in a nearshore marine environment. New taxa described include Aechminella prostata, Cornigella laterispinosa, Hollinella (H.) imoensis, H. (H.) denotata, Pseudokegelites dorsopeltatus new genus and species, Polytylites oblongus, Glyptopleuroides inregularis, Oliganisus amictus, Doricranos incohatus new genus and species, Knoxina sohni, Proparaparchites ignotus, Shivaella juxarecta, Orthobairdia redacta, Monoceratina arkansasana, Healdioides retusus, H. commensuratus, Seminolites orthapsis, Venula elegantula, Prodigious rostratus new genus and species, and Microcheilinella? lenticularis.
1315636|Cretaceous clavagellid pelecypods are a poorly known group, and have previously received little study. Ascaulocardium armatum is conchologically the most complex burrowing pelecypod known. From the study of living clavagellids, it is possible to interpret the various tubes extending outward from the adventitious crypt of A. armatum as devices for hydraulic burrowing and deposit feeding. The conchologically complex A. armatum occurs near the beginning of the history of the Clavagellidae, and does not seem to have given rise to any younger species. Ascaulocardium armatum is known only from the Upper Cretaceous rocks (Santonian-Maastrichtian) of the east Gulf and Atlantic Coastal Plains of the United States of America, as is probably the genus Ascaulocardium. All known Cretaceous clavagellids are burrowing species having a free right valve, and this is the ancestral mode of life of the Clavagellidae. Clavagellids that have a boring habit are a more recent evolutionary development, as are burrowing species having both juvenile valves cemented to the crypt. Clavagellids probably evolved from Jurassic-Early Cretaceous pholadomyids. Almost all Cretaceous clavagellids occur outside the Tethyan Zoogeographic Realm; this distribution is in marked contrast to the modern distribution of the family. Living species mostly inhabit clear, shallow seas in subtropical to tropical shelf areas.
1315639|Small fusulinids are common in the Atokan and most Desmoinesian marine units in Ohio but less common in Missourian and Virgilian units. Twenty-one taxa are recognized. Five new species are proposed, including Millerella? elegantula, Eostaffella? recondita, Eostaffella inusitata, Pseudostaffella douglassi, and Pseudoendothyra ohioensis. Several specimens of uncertain taxonomic assignment are also included. Approximately one-third of the previously recognized taxa were originally described from Europe and about one-half from western North America. Millerella? carbonica Grozdilova and Lebedeva, Eostaffella rjasanensis Rauzer-Chernousova, E. mutabilis Rauzer-Chernousova, and E. acuta Grozdilova and Lebedeva are reported from North America for the first time. The known ranges of several species have been extended significantly. These conclusions support the concept of a greater cosmopolitanism of Pennsylvanian foraminifers than has been generally recognized.
1315610| Many trilobite species of the order Agnostida have short stratigraphic ranges and global distribution in open-marine deposits. They are most abundant and most diverse from about the middle Middle Cambrian to the middle Upper Cambrian where they are proving to be excellent biostratigraphic indices. We describe unusually rich agnostoid faunas of that age from two thick, well-exposed sections, one near Paibi and one near Wangcun, in northwestern Hunan Province, China. All collections are from the Huaqiao Formation, the definition of which is revised and its stratigraphic content is expanded. Most of the fossils are well preserved in dark, laminated, argillaceous carbonates that were deposited in lower slope environments. These are assigned to 76 species and 33 genera. New species described are Agnostus? babcocki, Ammagnostus? cryptus, Ammagnostus histus, Ammagnostus hunanensis, Ammagnostus wangcunensis, Baltagnostus? ambonus, Linguagnostus stenus, Lisogoragnostus hybus, Lisogoragnostus mictus, and Utagnostus songae. Species reassigned in a new generic combination are Ammagnostus laiwuensis (Lorenz, 1906), Glaberagnostus? cicer (Tullberg, 1880), Kormagnostus minutus (Schrank, 1975), and Pseudophalacroma scanense (Westergrd, 1946). The subfamily Ammagnostinae pik, 1967, is elevated to family rank. The bases of eight agnostoid biozones are defined by the lowest occurrence of a common species having a relatively short stratigraphic range and wide geographic distribution. In ascending order, these zones are named for Ptychagnostus atavus, Ptychagnostus punctuosus, Goniagnostus nathorsti, Lejopyge laevigata, Proagnostus bulbus. Linguagnostus reconditus, Glyptagnostus stolidotus, and Glyptagnostus reticulatus. Each zone is further characterized by an assemblage of agnostoid species that may vary from place to place. By extrapolating from recently published uranium-lead geochronology, we estimate that the average duration of these agnostoid zones was approximately one million years. Formal division of the Cambrian System into global series and stages is a current project of the International Subcommission on Cambrian Stratigraphy. If the base of an upper Cambrian series of whatever name is selected to correlate closely with the traditional Middle-Upper Cambrian boundary in Europe, we propose the base of the Linguagnostus reconditus Zone in the Wangcun section as a potential Global Standard Stratotype-section and Point (GSSP). Alternatively, if the base of an upper Cambrian series is selected to coincide with the base of the Glyptagnostus reticulatus Zone, we propose the base of that zone in the Paibi section as a potential GSSP. 
30219695|The mid-Moscovian Izvarino section, Donets Basin, eastern Ukraine, exhibits a complete sedimentological record of siliciclastics (sandstones, siltstones, and calcareous shales) with limestone intercalations and, rarely, coal seams. A multidisciplinary study including microfacies analysis, systematic paleontology (conodonts, fusulinoideans, and ostracodes), biostratigraphy, and paleoecology was focused on the limestones, from limestone L through limestone M, and the adjacent marine shales. Based on sedimentology and fossil associations, the cyclic sediments of the Izvarino section were interpreted as entirely marine deposits of open- and shallow-marine, nearshore and offshore environments with variable terrigenous input. The well-preserved ostracode faunas are dominated by representatives of the families Amphissitidae, Hollinellidae, Healdiidae, Cavellinidae, and Paraparchitidae. The total fauna is 18 species, of which four are new: Hollinella (Hollinella) granuloba Fohrer, n. sp., Hollinella (Praehollinella) kamenka Fohrer, n. sp., Jordanites krasnodonensis Fohrer, n. sp., and Asturiella donbassica Fohrer, n. sp. The conodont fauna includes 21 species belonging to nine genera and includes one new species: Idiognathodus izvaricus Nemyrovska, n. sp. The conodont faunas are dominated by idiognathodontids. Representatives of Diplognathodus and Neognathodus play a subordinate role. A total of 56 fusulinoidean species referable to 20 genera has been identified; one is new: Eostaffella brazhnikovae Ueno, n. sp. Conodont and fusulinoidean biostratigraphy led to surprising differences in the age assignment of the Izvarino section and its correlation with the nearby Moscow Basin, Russia. The interval studied is lower Kashirian (Tsninskaya) to middle Kashirian (Narskaya), according to conodonts. It extends to the base of the Podolskian, however, according to fusulinoideans. This discrepancy is possibly related to problems in correlation of the type sections in the Moscow Basin. It calls for reexamination of the mid-Moscovian boundary interval and shows the limits of interbasinal correlations based on a single fossil group.
1315506|The St. Clair Limestone and Clarita Formation contain large, Upper Silurian (Wenlockian) brachiopod faunas. The St. Clair Limestone crops out in two areas in north-central Arkansas; one is the type area near Batesville, in parts of Independence, Stone, and Izard Counties, the other is near Gilbert, Searcy County. The Clarita Formation, Fitzhugh Member, crops out in the Arbuckle Mountain region and Criner Hills of south-central Oklahoma. The articulate brachiopod fauna of the St. Clair Limestone comprises 45 species and subspecies referred to 35 genera and subgenera, and that of the Clarita Formation, Fitzhugh Member, comprises 23 species and subspecies referred to 22 genera and subgenera. The combined St. Clair-Clarita fauna totals 51 species and subspecies, of which 17 are new; 40 genera and subgenera are represented, of which 9 are new: Orthostrophella, Onychotreta (Eilotreta), Onychotreta (Lissotreta), Placotriplesia, Boucotides, Leangella (Opikella), Virginiata, Dicamaropsis, and Homoeospirella. The faunas of the St. Clair and Clarita are remarkably similar; all but six of the Clarita species are present in the St. Clair, and the two formations are closely related in age. Strata of this age are probably widely distributed in the Midcontinent area of the United States, although the brachiopod evidence for this is meager. The generic suite represented in the St. Clair-Clarita brachiopod faunas is similar to that of the Wenlock of Great Britain and the Slite and Mulde Marlstones of Gotland; the stage of development represented by the St. Clair species of Dicoelosia is also similar to that of D. biloba from the Wenlock Limestone and Slite and Mulde Marlstones. The St. Clair-Clarita brachiopod fauna does not show any marked similarity to brachiopod faunas known to be in the Silurian of Bohemia, and, in fact, correlation with the Czechoslovakian Silurian section is at present uncertain.
30219692|Notogoneus osculus Cope, the type species for the geographically widespread Upper Cretaceous to Upper Oligocene genus Notogoneus (Gonorynchidae), is redescribed in detail based on much new material. This species is known from the Early Eocene Fossil Butte Member of the Green River Formation, southwestern Wyoming. It is geologically the youngest known species of the family Gonorynchidae in North America, although the family is known from Oligocene and Miocene lacustrine deposits of Europe and Australia and is extant today in tropical marine environments of the Pacific (Gonorynchus spp.). In this paper we also correct a number of mistakes in previously published morphological descriptions of N. osculus (e.g., in skull and caudal skeleton) based on a large, new sample of well-preserved, well-prepared specimens. Accurate description of this species is important because it is the type for the genus and it is also by far the best preserved of all known species of Notogoneus. In addition, it may shed new light on the interrelationships of Gonorynchidae (work in progress by the authors). Notogoneus appears to have inhabited a freshwater, subtropical environment. Based on distribution data and species diversity within the Green River Formation, we suspect that N. osculus may have been a migratory fish, living in the central (off-shore) regions of Fossil Lake during part of its life, and in connecting streams and rivers during other parts of its life. Most or all species of the genus Notogoneus are known from freshwater deposits and species are known from North America, Europe, Asia and Australia. Species of the extant gonorynchid genus Gonorynchus are all marine and are known from the Indo-Pacific and southern Atlantic.
1315542|Three types of geographic isolation--land barriers, deep water barriers, and climatic barriers--resulted in three distinct evolutionary responses in Neogene and Quaternary species of the epineritic ostracode genus Puriana. Through systematic, paleobiogeographic, and morphologic study of several hundred fossil and Recent populations from the eastern Pacific, western Atlantic, Gulf of Mexico, and the Caribbean, the phylogeny of the genus and the geography of speciation events were determined. Isolation of large populations by the Isthmus of Panama during the Pliocene did not lead to lineage splitting in species known to have existed before the Isthmus formed. Conversely, the establishment of small isolated populations on Caribbean islands by passive dispersal mechanisms frequently led to the evolution of new species or subspecies. Climatic changes along the southeastern United States during the Pliocene also catalyzed possible parapatric speciation as populations that immigrated to the northeastern periphery of the genus' range split to form new species. The results provide evidence that evolutionary models describing the influence of abiotic events on patterns of evolution and speciation can be tested using properly selected tectonic and climatic events and fossil groups amenable to species-level analysis. Two new species, P. bajaensis and P. paikensis, are described.
1315554|Bryozoans are abundant and diverse in the upper part of the Chainman Shale (Mississippian; Osagean, Meramecian-Chesterian) and in the upper Chesterian part of the overlying Ely Limestone (Mississippian-Pennsylvanian) in the Confusion Range of western Utah. The bryozoan assemblage includes 15 genera and 18 species; 12 species are new and 6 are in open nomenclature. The new species are the trepostomes Callocladia jensensis, Stenopora confusionensis, Stenoporella mineriensis, Tabulipora atacta, T. ricta, T. sarcinula, T. stragula, the cryptostomes Ascopora macellata, Rhabdomeson artum, Streblotrypa angulatum, Strebloplax pertusa, and the cystoporate Cystodictya astrepta. Species in open nomenclature are the trepostome Anisotrypa sp., the cryptostomes Saffordotaxis sp., Archimedes sp., Fenestella sp., Penniretepora sp. A, and Polypora sp. Callocladia and Strebloplax are known only from Chesterian strata in North America; Strebloplax is known only from the conterminous United States. The stratigraphic range of Stenoporella, also known only from the United States, is extended into rocks of supposed Pennsylvanian age. Stenoporella mineriensis, the only species in this bryozoan assemblage known to occur outside Utah, is also found in the Ely Limestone (Pennsylvanian) of Nevada. Tabulipora is the dominant genus in the Chesterian rocks of this region; T. sarcinula and T. ricta the most abundant taxa. The shallowing of the marine environment and the establishment of carbonate deposition during late Chainman time permitted widespread development and dispersal of the bryozoan faunas in western Utah.
1315615|Multielement taxonomy and shape analysis have led to substantial revisions in the taxonomic concepts of 13 Frasnian species of Palmatolepis, which previously have been based largely on visual discrimination of the Pa elements. Septimembrate apparatuses have been recognized in three species and diagnostic Pb elements are associated with the Pa elements of eight others. The multielement reconstructions thus derived provide the a priori classification that is tested by the canonical variate analysis of the outlines of the Pa elements. The outlines are digitized from a TV image and quantified by calculating mean tangent angles within a specified number of intervals between landmarks. The mean tangent angles for each interval are the variables used in the canonical variate analysis. In a series of comparisons limited to three species each, all 13 species separate into isolated clusters that are completely congruent with the a priori groups based, with two exceptions, on multielement taxonomy. Thus, shape analysis provides a rigorous separation of closely similar species that have been difficult to distinguish by visual discrimination of the Pa elements. Shape analysis is treated herein as an integral part of the systematic descriptions. Newly described species are P. bohemica, P. boogaardi, P. luscarensis, and P. muelleri. The new taxonomic concepts lead to significant revisions in the biostratigraphic ranges of a number of species of Palmatolepis involved in the zonation and graphic correlation of the Frasnian Stage.
1315566|Latest Permian gastropod faunas are relatively poorly known, limiting our understanding of the behavior of the group during the end-Permian mass extinction. Here we describe an assemblage of silicified microgastropods from the Heshan Formation of Guangxi Province, China, as well as some related Permian gastropods from elsewhere in south China. This is the youngest described Permian gastropod assemblage, and demonstrates that gastropod diversity remained high until the latest Changhsingian stage, immediately before the mass extinction. A total of 73 species are described, including one new family, nine new genera and 51 new species. The new family is the Plicatusidae. New genera are: Naticasinus, Zhonghuaspira, Microlampra, Propupaspira, Laxella, Plicatus, Luoguella, and Ninglangella. The new species are: Bellerophon (B.) yochelsoni, Retispira sinensis, Naticasinus sinus, Peruvispira jucunda, Manzanospira turrita, Porcellia paucituberculata, Microlampra heshanensis, M. orcula, Glyptospira pinna, Anomphalus fusuiensis, Straparella rotella, Holopea bacca, H.? teres, Aclisina multicarinata, Platyzona pulchella, P. nitella, P. luculenta, Goniasma fusuiensis, Straparollus minutus, Naticopsis (N.) shizishanensis, N. (N.) ninglangensis, N. (N.) heshanensis, N. (Jedria) quangxiensis, Trachydomia minuta, Trachyspira quangxiensis, T. heshanensis, Ploceozyga (Plocezyga) yunnanensis, P. (P.) varica, Pseudozygopleura micra, Microptychis charma, Palaeostylus fusuiensis, Soleniscus micidus, S. pactus, Leptoptygma laetus, Propupaspira eleganta, Girtyspira delicata, Ninglangella ninglangensis, Donaldina heshanensis, D. eleganta, D. quinquecarina, Streptacis regularis, S. fragilis, S. pravis, Laxella micra, Plicatus scalaris, P. multifilaris, Luoguispira micra, L. lineata, L. multilinea, Luoguella elegantula, and L. diana.
1315648|Reinterpretations are made of North American Pennsylvanian rostroconchs based on shell form, shell structure, and surface ornamentation. The new family Pseudobigaleaidae, new genera Baiosoma, Hadropipetta, Exalloschema, Oxyprora, and Apotocardium are erected, and the new species Arceodomus angustus and Apotocardium plautum are recognized. Study of growth increments on Apotocardium lanterna (Branson) indicate annual and monthly growth rates and life span. Thin sections studied provide insights into shell layer structure and thickness and variation in shell form. Characteristics of the protoconch and its relationship to body shell layers are illustrated. Epifaunal elements consisting of worm tubes, inarticulate brachiopods, acrothoracic barnacles, bryozoans, corals, and algae are present, some suggest attachment to the host rostroconch in life position.
1315634|New collections, as well as original type material, of Lower and Middle Ordovician sponges from the Mingan Island Archipelago are described and figured from the Mingan and Romaine Formations. Archaeoscyphia minganensis (Billings, 1859), Hudsonospongia minganensis Raymond and Okulitch, 1940, H. irregularis Raymond and Okulitch, 1940, H. duplicata Raymond and Okulitch, 1940, Zittelella varians (Billings, 1861a), and Eospongia roemeri Billings, 1861, are redescribed from original type specimens and new collections. The species Archaeoscyphia pulchra (Bassler, 1927), Rhopalocoelia clarkii Raymond and Okulitch, 1940, Psarodictyum magnificum Raymond and Okulitch, 1940, and Lissocoelia ramosa Bassler, 1927 are reported and described from the Mingan Islands for the first time. To these sponges are added the new species Anthaspidella amplia, Archaeoscyphia undulata, Hudsonospongia nodosa, and Zittelella grossa, which are described from type specimens from the Mingan Formation. The assemblage from 12 localities from the Mingan Formation, and one from the Romaine Formation, represents one of the most diverse demosponge faunas from eastern North America. Sponges in most of the localities accumulated as transported debris or lag gravels, but locally, some grew in small reefoidal mounds and also accumulated as adjacent debris.
4095813| A moderately diverse crinoid fauna from the Early Mississippian, Tournaisian, part of the Bahram Formation is reported from exposures in the vicinities of Hutk and Shams Abad, north of Kerman in southeastern Iran. Conodonts from the crinoid-bearing beds represent two faunas and indicate an age of Upper Siphonodella crenulata Biozone to Gnathodus typicus Biozone. Recognition of a Tournaisian age for this part of the Bahram Formation revises the previously assigned Famennian age and indicates that Famennian strata are much thinner, if present, in southeastern Iran. The fauna occurs in thin-bedded marls and limestones at the top of a shaley slope-forming sequence that grades upward into resistant cliff-forming limestones. Most crinoid specimens are crowns (many retaining part of the proximal stem) that have been flattened by compaction. At the genus level the crinoids include five camerates, three cladid dendrocrinids, ten other cladids, three flexibles, and one articulate. In addition, loose arm fragments and occasional cup fragments are common, along with abundant pluricolumnals and columnals in the fauna. Dominance of cladids over camerates probably reflects the argillaceous sediment in the mixed carbonate/siliciclastic platform environment of the fauna. This is the most diverse Tournaisian fauna reported from the northern margin of Gondwana and represents an equatorial fauna living at approximately 20S latitude. Stronger affinities are with North American and European crinoid faunas than with Chinese and Australian faunas. Shallow-shelf conodonts from the crinoid-bearing beds are dominated by species of Polygnathus. Palaeoniscoid fish remains and shark teeth from the same beds support a shallow-shelf environment. New taxa proposed are Dichocrinus shamsensis new species; D. labyrinthus new species; Springeracrocrinus conicus new species; Atelestocrinus hutkensis new species; Zangucrinus abadensis new genus and species; Glossocrinacea new superfamily; Gelasinocrinus revimentus new genus and species; Amabilicrinidae new family; Amabilicrinus iranensis new genus and species, A. bahramensis new species; Derorhethocrinus elongatus new genus and species; Corematocrinidae new family; Lorocrinus zanguensis new genus and species; Blothrocrinus yazdii new species; Culmicrinus cylindratus new species; Paracosmetocrinus delicatus new species; Taxocrinus quadribrachiatus new species; Meristocrinus ovatus new species; and Hutkocrinus kermanensis new genus and species. Revision of the Glossocrinidae also resulted in designation of two new genera not present in the Iranian fauna: Bufalocrinus new genus (type species Catactocrinus? torus Webster and Hafley, 1999, from the Late Devonian, Famennian, of Colorado) and Nudalocrinus new genus (type species Culmicrinus jeffersonensis Laudon and Severson, 1953, from the Tournaisian of Montana). 
1315574|The thorax of Hypodicranotus has ten segments and a spine on the eighth. The ages of Erratencrinurus s.l. spicatus and Erratencrinurus (Erratencrinurus?) vigilans in the Lake St. John district do not confirm their temporal roles leading to subgenera of Erratencrinurus, as has been recently suggested. Phylogenetic analyses of large data sets of species previously referred to Encrinuroides and Physemataspis yield a minimal length cladogram containing 18 species. Encrinuroides is restricted to four species, two of which have biogeographic affinities with Iapetus. These results lead to three clades, named the Walencrinuroides n. gen. clade, Frencrinuroides n. gen. clade, and finally the Physemataspis clade, with an enlarged concept of the genus with the erection of Physemataspis (Prophysemataspis) n. subgen. These last three clades are restricted to North America and Scotland, with alternating predominance of one region. Walencrinuroides s.l. gelaisi n. gen. n. sp. is described. New morphological data on Erratencrinurus s.l. spicatus confirm its close relationship with the clades discussed above. Data are insufficient for phylogenetic analysis of selected cheirurine species here surveyed. Eye position, glabellar segmentation, and pygidial shape differentiate the genera Ceraurus and Gabriceraurus; emended diagnoses of these genera are presented. Ceraurus globulobatus and C. matranseris are distinct, but morphologically close to one another. The status of Gabriceraurus dentatus can be stabilized on its extant types.
1315604|The new balanid subfamily Concavinae is based on the genus Concavus Newman, 1982, and includes five genera and 29 species-group taxa. The subgenera Concavus, Tamiosoma Conrad, 1856 (senior synonym of Menesiniella Newman, 1982), and Arossia Newman, 1982, are raised to generic rank. Two new genera, Chesaconcavus (type species Balanus concavus chesapeakensis Pilsbry, 1916) and Paraconcavus (type species Balanus concavus pacificus Pilsbry, 1916), are proposed, based on fossil and extant species from North America. New species include Tamiosoma advena from the Pliocene of southern Florida, Chesaconcavus rossi and C. santamaria from the middle Miocene of Maryland, C. myosulcatus from the upper Miocene of Virginia, Arossia newmani from the middle Miocene of Maryland, A. rubra from the upper Miocene of central California, A. aurae from the lower Pliocene of North Carolina, and Paraconcavus margaritanus from the upper Miocene of southern California. Concavines, a predominantly Northern Hemisphere group, appear in the late Oligocene in North America and Europe, diversify and spread rapidly in the Neogene, and, with the exception of a few eastern Pacific relicts, become extinct before the late Pleistocene.
40926424|New collections of trilobites from the type section of the Parahio Formation in the Parahio Valley, Spiti, and from the Parahio, Karsha, and Kurgiakh formations in the Zanskar Valley, permit biozonation based on material precisely located within measured stratigraphie sections. Specimens preserved in limestone with mild tectonic deformation clarify the features of several Himalayan taxa known previously only from severely deformed specimens preserved in shale. A total of 75 trilobite taxa from the Cambrian of Spiti and Zanskar can be referred, questionably at least, at the generic level or below, and 61 of these are present in our new collections. This new material is assigned with confidence to 29 existing species, and to 12 new species. Three new genera, Haydenaspis, Bhargavia, and Himalisania, are established; new species include Haydenaspis parvatya, Prozacanthoides lahiri, Probowmania bhatti, Xingrenaspis parthiva, X. shyamalae, Bhargavia prakritika, Kaotaia prachina, Gunnia smithi, Sudanamonocarina sinindica, Proasaphiscus simoni, Koldinia odelli, and Tonfer jelii. Ten additional Himalayan forms are assigned at the generic level only, and another 11 are questionably assigned to genera or species. The zonation proposed includes 6 zones and 3 levels, including the Haydenaspis parvatya level, the Oryctocephalus indicus level, the Kaotaia prachina Zone, the Paramecephalus defossus Zone, the Oryctocephalus salteri Zone, the Iranoleesia butes level, the Sudanomocarina sinindica Zone, the Lejopyge acantha Zone, and the Proagnostus bulbus Zone. The sections span from the upper part of the informal Stage 4, Series 2 of the Cambrian System, about 511 Ma old, to the Proagnostus bulbus zone of the Guzhangian Stage near the top of Series 3, dated at about 501 Ma. This time interval is represented by about 2000 m of section, which is thick compared to similar intervals elsewhere and is consistent with high rates of sedimentation along the Himalayan margin at the time. The fauna resembles others from equatorial peri-Gondwanaland, with closest similarity to that of South China. It also bears strong affinity to the North China fauna. Juvenile trilobites are described for the first time from India. A new Chinese species, Monanocephalus liquani, is also described.
1315632|A new collection of fossil decapod crustaceans from the Cretaceous Rosario Formation, the Eocene Tepetate Formation and the Oligocene El Cien Formation, Baja California Sur, Mexico, has yielded two new genera and several new species, Amydrocarcinus dantei n. gen. and sp., Levicyclus tepetate n. gen. and sp., Eriosachila bajaensis n. sp., Oregonia spinifera n. sp., Archaeopus mexicanus n. sp., and Necronectes nodosa n. sp. Additionally, new occurrences of the previously described Lophoranina bishopi, Xandaros sternbergi, Icriocarcinus xestos, and Lobonotus mexicanus as well as Dardanus cf. D. mexicanus are reported. As part of ongoing work on global evolutionary and paleobiogeographic patterns within the Decapoda, the work has prompted a review and synthesis of decapod occurrences in the tropical and subtropical Americas including the southern United States, the Caribbean, Mexico, Central America, and northern South America. As a result of the systematic review, several new combinations are reported herein which include Eriosachila bartholomaeensis (Rathbun, 1919), Lobonotus sandersi (Blow and Manning, 1996; 1998), and Matuties americanus (Rathbun, 1935). Icriocarcinus is transferred to the Goneplacidae, extending the range of that family into the Cretaceous. Most Cretaceous through Miocene tropical and subtropical American taxa appear to have originated within the area and a large number were endemic. Most of the immigrants to the central Americas appear to have evolved along North Atlantic shelves and subsequently dispersed to the Americas, probably via continental shelf routes. In addition, as demonstrated by several previous studies, decapod crustaceans appear to have evolved in numerous middle- and high- latitude areas with subsequent dispersal to lower latitudes, contrary to the long held notion that the tropics are areas of origin with subsequent dispersal to other regions. Low-latitude decapod taxa tend to remain in low-latitude areas. The Maastrichtian and the Eocene appear to have been times of elevated extinctions within the Decapoda; however, the extinction patterns for those two time intervals are very complex.
1315629|The subfamily Anaptomorphinae contains the oldest and most generalized members of the tarsier-like primates and is the basal group of the extinct family Omomyidae. The best and most continuous record of anaptomorphine history is from rocks of early Eocene (Wasatchian) age in the Bighorn Basin of northwest Wyoming where eight genera and 14 species are recognized. Three of these species are new (Teilhardina crassidens, Tetonius matthewi, Absarokius metoecus), and four other new species are described from elsewhere (Tetonius mckennai, Absarokius gazini, A. australis, Strigorhysis huerfanensis). Teilhardina tenuicula and Absarokius nocerai are new combined forms. Absarokius noctivagus is considered to be a synonym of A. abbotti, and Mckennamorphus is a synonym of Pseudotetonius. The evolution of dental characters in three principal morphologic clades of anaptomorphines from the Bighorn Basin is documented with the aid of numerous new specimens (75% of the sample is new) and with precise stratigraphic data. These major clades are Teilhardina-Anemorhysis, Tetonius-Pseudotetonius, and Absarokius. In each of these clades, evolution appears to have occurred gradually. In the first two clades it was mainly anagenetic, although each one included a minor branching event. In Absarokius, evolution was instead characterized by cladogenesis followed by continued (and continual) anagenetic change in each of the new lines. Anagenetic gradual evolution produced the new genus Pseudotetonius (from Tetonius) and possibly Anemorhysis (from Teilhardina). Similarly, the Absarokius metoecus lineage probably gave rise to late Wasatchian-early Bridgerian Strigorhysis. Evolution from Tetonius to Pseudotetonius has been clarified by establishment of five arbitrary stages of evolution (Tetonius-Pseudotetonius intermediates). Estimates of relative proportions of time represented by paleosols in different parts of the Willwood section suggest that cladogenetic speciation in Absarokius was almost certainly more rapid than anagenesis in Tetonius-Pseudotetonius. Anagenetic character evolution and speciation in the anaptomorphine primates was typified first by increase, then decrease in variability, which resulted in measurable apomorphic morphologic change. Cumulation of changes of this sort created more extensive differences of importance at the species and genus levels. Introduction of changing character states and their tempo was staggered temporally, and new characters (and new taxa) are least separable from their antecedent states when they first appear. This evidence is in sharp contrast to predictions of the punctuated equilibria model of evolution. Because the emergence of diagnostic characters occurs gradually (in evolutionary terms) and not all at once (in temporal terms), and because diagnostic characters are the essence of the diagnosis (and thereby taxonomy), the implications of gradual evolution for both systematic paleontology and biostratigraphy are profound. Stasis exists in the evolution of individual characters over certain periods, but this study offers no evidence supporting either organismic stasis or even stasis in the dental evolution of the Anaptomorphinae over a period of about 4.8 million years.
1315560|The Lower Pennsylvanian Hale Formation, which comprises the lower portion of the type Morrowan Series, in northwestern Arkansas, is subdivided into the Cane Hill and overlying Prairie Grove Members. The Cane Hill Member includes interbedded shale and sandstone with a basal conglomerate containing clasts reworked from underlying, truncated Mississippian formations. The Prairie Grove Member is highly variable, but includes sandy biosparite and calcareous sandstone. Highly fossiliferous pebble conglomerate and calcirudite lenses occur sporadically throughout the Hale Formation. Ammonoids and conodonts show that the Cane Hill-Prairie Grove boundary is unconformable. Several thousand ammonoids collected from more than 100 localities in the Hale Formation show that four ammonoid zones and two subzones are recognizable in the Hale succession, and consequently in the redefined Halian Stage of the Morrowan Series. These are, in ascending order, the Retites semiretia, Quinnites henbesti, Arkanites relictus (including the Arkanites relictus relictus and overlying Cancelloceras huntsvillense Subzones) and Verneuilites pygmaeus Zones. Halian Stage ammonoids are known primarily from northern Arkansas, but an upper Arkanites relictus Zone (Cancel-loceras huntsvillense Subzone) ammonoid assemblage occurs in the Primrose Member of the Golf Course Formation in south central Oklahoma. Conodont-ammonoid associations in the Hale sequence provide a basis for integration of independently based zonal information. Rhachistognathus primus Zone conodonts occur in the Retites semiretia Zone; the Idiognathoides sinuatus Zone ranges through the Quinnites henbesti and Arkanites relictus relictus Subzone. The overlying Cancelloceras huntsvillense Subzone and Verneuilites pygmaeus Zone both contain conodonts of the Neognathodus symmetricus Zone. The Hale ammonoid succession has few, if any, species in common with the type Namurian of Europe, but numerous genera are common to both sequences and the generic successions coincide and are equivalent in degree of development. The Retites semiretia Zone is equivalent to the Reticuloceras circumplicatile Zone R
4095815| A new species of sturgeon (Acipenseridae), Psammorhynchus longipinnis n. gen. and sp., is described based on a single well-preserved specimen from the Upper Cretaceous Judith River Formation of Montana. Although based on only a single individual, the osteological detail we are able to describe for this species is extensive because of the completeness of the specimen, the relatively three-dimensional preservation, and the soft, loosely consolidated sandstone matrix in which it was contained (allowing some dissection of the specimen to reveal the internal bones of the head region). We prepared the specimen completely out of the matrix, and described the head region in stages of "dissection." Psammorhynchus longipinnis is the only fossil sturgeon to date that provides a relatively complete, reliable look at its osteology. Although there have previously been numerous and widespread reports of fossil sturgeons, the material is notoriously fragmentary and poorly preserved, consisting mostly of isolated scutes or pectoral spines (summarized here in an appendix) and it is of very limited use to phylogenetic studies of living sturgeon taxa. The only other described articulated skeleton of a fossil sturgeon is Protoscaphirhynchus squamosus Wilimovsky from the Upper Cretaceous Hell Creek Formation of Montana. That specimen (the only one known for the species) is a badly preserved, very poorly prepared skeleton showing little detail of the head region. It is interesting to note that the only known articulated fossil sturgeon skeletons (Psammorhynchus longipinnis n. gen. and sp.; Protoscaphirhynchus squamosus Wilimovsky; and a third, yet undescribed specimen) were apparently each independently discovered in the abdominal regions of hadrosaurian dinosaurs (as was the Cretaceous paddlefish Paleopsephurus wilsoni MacAlpin). Perhaps hadrosaur carcasses provided the right combination of taphonomic factors to protect acipenseriform carcasses from damage in high energy aquatic environments predominantly preferred by sturgeons. In any case, based on known specimens, sediments within hadrosaurs appear to have been the main preservational medium for articulated fossil sturgeon skeletons in North America. Psammorhynchus longipinnis appears to be the sister taxon to the rest of Acipenseridae based on our preliminary analysis here. We will reevaluate this relationship elsewhere in our (Hilton, Grande, and Bemis) ongoing study of fossil and living Acipenseridae. 
1315582| Seventeen species of decapod crustaceans have been described from Campanian through Paleocene rocks in the Santa Marta, Lpez de Bertodano, and Sobral Formations of the James Ross Basin, Antarctica. Of these, nine are new species: Metanephrops rossensis, Glyphea australensis. Paguristes santamartaensis, Munidopsis foersteri, Retrorsichela laevis, Plagiophthalmous collinsi, Rhinopoupinia bicornis, Cristafrons praescientis, and Torynomma (Torynomma) australis. One new family, Retrorsichelidae, and three new genera, Retrorsichela, Rhinopoupinia, and Cristafrons, were also named. This assemblage includes the first notice of brachyurans from the Cretaceous of Antarctica; six species are described. The nephropid lobster Hoploparia stokesi (Weller), the most common decapod throughout the section, exhibits significant morphological change throughout its range from late Santonian or earliest Campanian to Paleocene; however, variation of key features is asynchronous. The raninid brachyuran, Cristafrons praescientis, is second in abundance to H. stokesi. The occurrence of Metanephrops rossensis and Munidopsis foersteri represents the oldest geological records for these genera and the recognition of species of Paguristes, Plagiophthalmous, Torynomma, and Necrocarcinus constitutes the first notice of these genera in Antarctica. Of those taxa that have living congenors, the species of Metanephrops, Linuparus, and Munidopsis occupied habitats at inner shelf depths in the Cretaceous whereas their extant descendants are restricted to outer shelf and bathyal depths. This diverse decapod fauna is dominated by genera that range into the Cenozoic and appears to be a pioneer assemblage. 
30219176|Naraoiids, defined as lightly sclerotized arthropods with a dimidiate tergum of two sclerites separated by a single transverse articulation, have been found in the Cambrian and Silurian. During the Cambrian they had a wide distribution coinciding with trilobite realms. This pattern may be related to the breakup of a Neoproterozoic supercontinent, probably Pannotia, which implies that naraoiids originated before the Cambrian "explosion." Based on new observations on the original material from the Burgess Shale (Middle Cambrian, British Columbia), Naraoia halia is reconsidered as a valid species. The validity is further confirmed by a new record of the occurrence of this species in the Chengjiang Lagersttitte (Lower Cambrian, China). In addition, some structures of N. compacta of the Burgess Shale have been reinterpreted. Two more naraoiid species are redescribed in detail from the Chengjiang Lagerstitte on the basis of more than 1,000 well-preserved specimens. Naraoia spinosa shows dimorphism and Misszhouia longicaudata exhibits geographical variation in the overall shape of the dorsal exoskeleton. Naraoiids may have a protaspis-like larva, but the previously assigned protaspis has proven to be a separate taxon, Primicaris. In dorsal view, naraoiids resemble a giant "degree 0" meraspis (i.e., without thorax), and could have originated from different heterochronic processes, neoteny or hypermorphosis. Naraoiids are generally accepted as vagrant benthos. A predatory/scavenging life mode is supported by functional morphology and recent analogues. A healed injury in M. longicaudata suggests that they could be the prey of larger predators, most likely anomalocaridids. We suggest that differences in exopod composition might represent evolutionary changes through the Early-Middle Cambrian. The monophyly of the Naraoiidae is not firmly established. Similarity to liwiids, supposed to be the close relatives of naraoiids, is limited to overall shape. We exclude naraoiids from the Trilobita, though there do exist a number of similarities between them.
1315516|Many peculiarities of growth and development in colonial metazoans are related to the fact that a true colony is a clone, composed of genetically identical individuals reproduced asexually from a single founding individual. In fossil colonies the close relationship of individuals may be difficult to prove, but it must be assumed for analysis to be meaningful. Intercolony variation is due to the interaction of genetic and environmental controls as in solitary organisms. Intracolony variation may be very limited because of the lack of genetic variation, but microenvironmental differences (situation within colony) may cause enough individual variation to mask the restrictive effect of genetic similarity. Study of the number of major septa in some Devonian solitary and colonial rugose corals shows significantly less variation within colonies than within "populations" or species of colonial or solitary forms. Greater variation within some colonies may result from either genetic or mechanical accidents. Septal number and diameter are closely correlated in populations and species, but analyses of individuals within colonies frequently show weak or no correlation. Available data suggest: 1) that septal-number variation may be genetically limited in rugose corals and 2) that the general assumption that number of septa is a function of diameter may be in error.
1315646|Fourteen species of brachiopods were collected from two measured sections on Khios, and although the sections are only about 4 km apart, they contain but one genus in common. Both collections are from the zone of Neoschwagerina, but the collection from the hill called Seladha is probably somewhat younger than the collection from the region called Agrelias, because it is accompanied by the first appearance of the fusulinid Verbeekina. The brachiopods at Agrelias are: Kotlaia aethopa n. gen. and sp., Schuchertella tapina n. sp., Derbyia dirata n. sp., Meekella megala n. sp., Seseloidia phlebodes n. gen. and sp., Tschernyschewia sp. indet., Marginifera ganota n. sp., Entacanthadus chioticus n. gen. and sp., Horridonia sp. A., and Linoproductus cf. L. lineatus Waagen. The fauna at Seladha contains: Linoproductus cf. L. lineatus, Composita sp. indet., Squamularia sp. indet., Hustedia sp. indet., and Timorina sp. indet. Both faunas are dated as middle Permian, Kungurian, perhaps equivalent to the lower and upper parts of the Wordian of North America. The type species of Kotlaia is K. capillosa n. sp. from the Permian of the Salt Range, Pakistan, and a new genus of hercosiid (Sicularia) from the Permian of Sicily is introduced for nomenclatural reasons, with type species Richthofenia sicula Gemmellaro.
1315492|The inter-reef Virgin Hills Formation in the Canning Basin of Western Australia contains a diverse and abundant ammonoid fauna. This fauna is comparable in taxonomic diversity and abundance to the rich ammonoid faunas of Europe and North Africa. Of the four Stufen of the Famennian part of the classic German section, three (do II, III, IV, and V) are represented in Western Australia by ammonoids. The similarity of the Western Australian material with that of Europe and North Africa is remarkable, and suggests strongly the existence of an interbreeding relationship between the ammonoid populations of these areas which are now separated geographically by approximately 13,500 kilometers. Of the 36 recognized genera of Devonian goniatites known from Europe, 13 genera are described from Western Australia, as are four of the 32 known genera of clymeniids. Furthermore, the occurrence and nature of the ammonoid fauna indicates a close approximation of a living assemblege, or biocoenose. Several ontogenetic sequences which have long been recognized in Europe, and subsequently redescribed in Famennian strata of the Sahara region of North Africa, are duplicated by the Famennian ammonoids of Western Australia.
1315585|The marine molluscan fauna of the Prince Creek Formation near Ocean Point, northern Alaska, is of Danian age. It is the only diverse and abundant Danian molluscan fauna known from the Arctic Ocean realm, and is the first evidence for an indigenous Paleocene shallow-water biota within a discrete Arctic Ocean Basin faunal province. A high percentage of endemic species, and two endemic genera, emphasize the degree to which the Arctic Ocean was geographically isolated from the world ocean during the earliest Tertiary. Many of the well-preserved Ocean Point mollusks, however, also occur in Danian faunas of the North American Western Interior, the Canadian Arctic Islands, Svalbard, and northwestern Europe, and are the basis for relating this Arctic Ocean fauna to that of the Danian world ocean. The Arctic Ocean was a Danian refugium for some genera that became extinct elsewhere during the Jurassic and Cretaceous. At the same time, this nearly landlocked ocean fostered the evolution of new taxa that later in the Paleogene migrated into the world ocean by way of the northeastern Atlantic. The first Cenozoic occurrences are reported for the bivalves Integricardium (Integricardium), Oxytoma (Hypoxytoma), Placunopsis, Tancredia (Tancredia), and Tellinimera, and the oldest Cenozoic records given for the bivalves Gari (Garum), Neilo, and Yoldia (Cnesterium). Among the 25 species in the molluscan fauna are four new gastropod species, Amauropsis fetteri, Ellipsoscapha sohli, Mathilda (Fimbriatella) amundseni, and Polinices (Euspira) repenningi, two new bivalve genera, Arcticlam and Mytilon, and 15 new bivalve species, Arcticlam nanseni, Corbula (Caryocorbula) betsyae, Crenella kannoi, Cyrtodaria katieae, Gari (Garum) brouwersae, Integricardium (Integricardium) keenae, Mytilon theresae, Neilo gryci, Nucula (Nucula) micheleae, Nuculana (Jupiteria) moriyai, Oxytoma (Hypoxytoma) hargrovei, Placunopsis rothi, Tancredia (Tancredia) slavichi, Tellinimera kauffmani, and Yoldia (Cnesterium) gladenkovi.
1315520|Significant allometry occurs during the ontogeny of every variable in Poecilozonites bermudensis, a Pleistocene-Recent land snail from Bermuda. The adaptive significance of shell allometry may lie in the necessity for preserving a high value of the foot surface/body volume ratio. In the absence of allometry, this ratio must decline as size increases. Three strategies could be used to keep this ratio sufficiently high: positive allometry of foot growth, structural strengthening of the foot, and the development of a foot initially large enough to withstand decline in the ratio during growth. As indicated by ontogenetic changes in apertural shape, a small amount of positive allometry occurs during ontogeny of the foot in P. bermudensis. This is not sufficient to prevent decline of the foot surface/body weight ratio, and I conclude that the strategy of possessing an initially large foot is also used. A simple model of doming, reflecting this latter strategy, is constructed (doming is a major allometric feature of P. bermudensis). In this model, the foot volume/body volume ratio is constant throughout ontogeny in each of two shells, but this value is higher in the more strongly domed shell. Knowledge of ontogenetic allometry is a prerequisite for understanding the phylogeny of P. bermudensis, for paedomorphosis has been the primary evolutionary event in this taxon. Paedomorphic samples are scaled-up replicas of juvenile shells of the central stock, P. bermudensis zonatus. The degree of ontogenetic retardation in development is the same for all variables (color, thickness, and external shape). Paedomorphosis has occurred several times during the Pleistocene, providing an example of iterative evolution at the infraspecific level. Four paedomorphic taxa are known: P. b. fasolti, P. b. siegmundi, P. b. sieglindae, all new; and P. b. bermudensis (Pfeiffer). They have the geographic distribution (small, peripheral isolates) expected of diverging populations and seem to be genetically distinct entities, not mere phenotypic variants. The most paedomorphic subspecies originated in red soils; paedomorphs did not evolve in times of carbonate-dune deposition. The thin shells of paedomorphs might have been adaptive in the low-calcium environment of red soils. The general significance of iterative evolution at the infraspecific level does not provide an adequate model for corresponding events at higher levels.
1315522|In modern vertebrates, particularly ectotherms in temperate climates, alternating periods of rapid and curtailed growth are often recorded by annual markings in bones and/or scales. By indicating the age at death of individual animals and the time of year when death occurred, such markings permit quantitative studies of growth rates and population dynamics of fossil vertebrates to be made, and aid in interpreting the origin of fossil deposits. Scales of fish collected from the varved, lacustrine Green River Formation (middle Eocene), southwestern Wyoming, show interruptions interpreted as annuli. The position of the most recent annulus relative to the edge of the scales indicates the season of death of individual fish. Perfectly preserved specimens died in early summer, whereas those that died at a later season are disarticulated and scattered. A likely explanation is that early summer mortalities coincided with the yearly summer maximum of carbonate precipitation in the lake, so that carcasses reaching the bottom at this time were protected from disruptive currents. Among a collection of early Pliocene vertebrates from a quarry in Nebraska are many specimens from which individual age and season of death can be determined. Annuli on gar scales and catfish vertebrae indicate that these fish were killed in winter. Among the mammals, merycodonts (aged by their horns and dentitions) and horses (aged by dentitions) apparently died in winter also. Unlike the Green River fish, which accumulated over thousands of years, the Nebraska occurrence probably resulted from a catastrophe.
